<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130228_10-K_edgar_data_70858_0000070858-13-000097_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>123106925</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1544932</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>34563300</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>38735807</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>36725678</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>9474205</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>658</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000070858-13-000097.hdr.sgml : 20130228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130228160327
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000070858-13-000097
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		28
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BANK OF AMERICA CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000070858
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				560906609
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06523
		FILM NUMBER:		13651947

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		100 N TRYON ST
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28255
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7043868486

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		100 N TRYON ST
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28255

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BANKAMERICA CORP/DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19981022

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NATIONSBANK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NCNB CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920107

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000070858-13-000097.txt : 20130228

10-K
 1
 bac-12312012x10k.htm
 10-K

BAC-12.31.2012-10K 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
    
  Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One) 

or 

For the transition period from      to 
    
  Commission file number: 
  1-6523 

Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter: 
  Bank of America Corporation 

State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization: 
  Delaware 
  IRS Employer Identification No.: 
  56-0906609 
  Address of principal executive offices: 
   Bank of America Corporate Center 
  100 North Tryon Street 
  Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 
  Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 
  (704) 386-5681 
  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: 
                         
    Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

London Stock Exchange 

Tokyo Stock Exchange 

Warrants to purchase Common Stock (expiring October 28, 2018) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Warrants to purchase Common Stock (expiring January 16, 2019) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th Interest in a share of 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation 6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation 6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

6.75% Trust Preferred Securities of Countrywide Capital IV (and the guarantees related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

7.00% Capital Securities of Countrywide Capital V (and the guarantees related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

6% Capital Securities of BAC Capital Trust VIII (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities of BAC Capital Trust XIII (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

5.63% Fixed to Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities of BAC Capital Trust XIV (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

MBNA Capital B Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series B (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM    due December 2, 2014 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due September 27, 2013 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due July 26, 2013 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM   , due May 31, 2013 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due April 25, 2014 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due March 28, 2014 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due February 28, 2014 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM   , due January 30, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due February 27, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM   , due March 27, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM   , due April 24, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM   , due May 29, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average   SM   , due June 26, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Market Index Target-Term Securities      Linked to the S P 500  Index, due July 31, 2015 
      
    NYSE Arca, Inc. 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes        No 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes        No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes        No 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large accelerated filer     P 
      
    Accelerated filer 
      
    Non-accelerated filer 
      
    Smaller reporting company 

(do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes  No     
  The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock ( Common Stock ) held on   June 30, 2012   by non-affiliates was approximately   $88,154,790,629   (based on the   June 30, 2012   closing price of Common Stock of   $8.18   per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange). As of   February 25, 2013  , there were   10,820,274,944   shares of Common Stock outstanding. 
  Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of the definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant s annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on May 8, 2013 are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III. 

Table of Contents 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
                    Part I  
      
    Page 

Item 1.  
     Business  
    1 

Item 1A   . 
     Risk Factors  
    4 

Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    19 

Item 2.  
     Properties  
    20 

Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
    20 

Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    20 

Part II  

Item 5.  
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    21 

Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
    21 

Item 7.  
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    22 

Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    153 

Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    153 

Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    281 

Item 9A.  
     Controls And Procedures  
    281 

Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    283 

Part III  

Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    284 

Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    284 

Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
    285 

Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    285 

Item 14.  
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    285 

Part IV  

Item 15.  
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    286 

Part I 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
    Item 1.  Business 
    General 
  Bank of America Corporation (together, with its consolidated subsidiaries, Bank of America, we or us) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and a financial holding company. When used in this report,  the Corporation  may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation s organizational structure, reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. 
  Bank of America is one of the world s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 
  Bank of America s website is www.bankofamerica.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website at http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, we make available on http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Ethics (including our insider trading policy); (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link), and we also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Ethics, or waivers of our Code of Ethics on behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, on our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to stockholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Hearst Tower, 214 North Tryon Street, NC1-027-20-05, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202. 

Segments 
  Through our banking and various nonbanking subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbanking financial services and products through five business segments:   Consumer   Business Banking (CBB)  ,   Consumer Real Estate Services (CRES)  ,   Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  , with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages   37   through   53   of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A), and   Note 26   Business Segment Information     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Consolidated Financial Statements). 
  Competition 
  We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis. 
  Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. 
  Employees 
  As of   December 31, 2012  , we had approximately   267,000   full-time equivalent employees. None of our domestic employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good. 

Government Supervision and Regulation 
  The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies, banks and broker/dealers, including specific information about Bank of America. U.S. federal regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors. For additional information about recent regulatory programs, initiatives and legislation that impact us, see   Regulatory Matters   in the MD A on page   64  . 
  General 
  We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies and banks. 
  As a registered financial holding company and bank holding company, Bank of America Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our banking subsidiaries (the Banks) organized as national banking associations are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) regulates consumer financial products and services. 
  U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered  financial in nature  as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve, a financial holding company may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also permits national banks to engage in activities considered financial in nature through a financial subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and with the approval of the OCC. If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks is not  well-capitalized  or  well-managed,  we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. 
  The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits bank holding companies to acquire banks located in states other than their home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the bank holding company, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act) restricts acquisitions by financial companies if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial companies. At   December 31, 2012  , we held approximately 12 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. 
  We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies,  

all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by and supervision of the SEC, New York Stock Exchange and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); our derivatives activity is generally subject to regulation and supervision of the CFTC and National Futures Association or the SEC, and, in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; and our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies. 
  Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. Our financial services operations in the U.K. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority (FSA). In July of 2010, the U.K. proposed abolishing the FSA and replacing it with the Financial Policy Committee within the Bank of England (FPC) and two new regulators, the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) and the Consumer Protection and Markets Authority. Under the proposal, our U.K. regulated entities will be subject to the supervision of the FPC and the PRA for prudential matters and the CPMA for conduct of business matters. The new financial regulatory structure is scheduled to be formally established on April 1, 2013. We continue to monitor the development and potential impact of this regulatory restructuring. 
  Financial Reform Act 
  On July 21, 2010, the Financial Reform Act was signed into law. As a result of the Financial Reform Act, several significant regulatory developments occurred in 2012, and additional regulatory developments may occur in 2013 and beyond. The Financial Reform Act has impacted and will continue to impact our earnings through fee reductions, higher costs and imposition of new restrictions on us. For a description of significant developments, see   Regulatory Matters   Financial Reform Act   in the MD A on page   64  . 
  Capital and Operational Requirements 
  As a financial services holding company, we and our banking subsidiaries are subject to the risk-based capital guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the FDIC and the OCC. These capital rules are complex and are evolving as U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose enhanced capital rules in response to the financial crisis and pursuant to legislation, including the Financial Reform Act. The Corporation seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to meet these regulatory guidelines and to support our business activities. These evolving capital rules are likely to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning processes, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation.  
  For a discussion of regulatory capital rules, capital composition, and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital   and   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital Changes   in the MD A on pages   70   and   72  , and   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 

Distributions 
  We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or bank holding company, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. For instance, under proposed rules, we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). Supervisory review of the CCAR has a stated purpose of assessing the capital planning process of major U.S. bank holding companies, including any planned capital actions such as the payment of dividends on common stock. For additional information regarding the restrictions on our ability to receive dividends or other distributions from the Banks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 
  In addition, our ability to pay dividends is affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA). The right of the Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. 
  For additional information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, see   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity   and   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Source of Strength 
  According to the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, bank holding companies are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of FDICIA, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC s loss, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information about our calculation of regulatory capital and capital composition, and proposed capital rules, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital   in the MD A on page   70  , and   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Deposit Insurance 
  Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks (U.S. banks) are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to  

$250,000 per customer. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF. 
  The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The Financial Reform Act requires the FDIC to assess insured depository institutions to achieve a DIF ratio of at least 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has adopted new regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. The DIF ratio is currently below the required targets and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that will result in substantially higher deposit insurance assessments for all depository institutions over the coming years. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For additional information regarding deposit insurance, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risk   on page   12   and   Regulatory Matters   Financial Reform Act   and   Regulatory Matters   FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments   in the MD A on pages   64   and   65  . 
  Transactions with Affiliates 
  The Banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their non-bank affiliates. In general, U.S. Banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving Bank of America and its non-bank affiliates. Transactions between U.S. Banks and their non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm s length terms. For additional information regarding transactions with affiliates, see   Regulatory Matters   Transactions with Affiliates   in the MD A on page   66  . 
  Privacy and Information Security 
  We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of our customers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to periodically disclose Bank of America s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties under certain circumstances. Other laws and regulations, at both the federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires the Banks to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. These security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. 

Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
  In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to our own businesses. The discussion below addresses the most significant factors, of which we are aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in  Forward-looking Statements.  However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face. 
  Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows, competitive position, business, results of operations or financial condition. 
  General Economic and Market Conditions Risk 
  Our businesses and results of operations may be adversely affected by the U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions generally. 
  Our businesses and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, including factors such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, European sovereign debt risks and the strength of the U.S. economy and the non-U.S. economies in which we operate. The deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations. 
  Continued elevated unemployment, under-employment and household debt, along with continued stress in the consumer real estate market and certain commercial real estate markets, in the U.S. pose challenges for domestic economic performance and the financial services industry. The sustained high unemployment rate and the lengthy duration of unemployment have directly impaired consumer finances and pose risks to the financial services industry. Continued uncertainty in the housing markets and elevated levels of distressed and delinquent mortgages pose further risks to the housing market. The current environment of heightened scrutiny of financial institutions has resulted in increased public awareness of and sensitivity to banking fees and practices. Mortgage and housing market-related risks may be accentuated by attempts to forestall foreclosure proceedings, as well as state and federal investigations into foreclosure practices by mortgage servicers. Each of these factors may adversely affect our fees and costs. 
  For additional information about economic conditions and challenges discussed above, see   Executive Summary   2012 Economic and Business Environment   in the MD A on page   26  . 

Mortgage and Housing Market-Related Risk 
  Our mortgage loan repurchase obligations or claims from third parties could result in additional material losses. 
  We and our legacy companies have sold significant amounts of residential mortgage loans directly to government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (collectively, the GSEs), and residential mortgage loans to investors other than GSEs as whole loans or private-label securitizations. In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies make or have made various representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties. For example, we and such legacy companies sold over $2 trillion of such loans originated between 2004 and 2008. 
  On January 6, 2013, we entered into agreements with FNMA (FNMA Settlement) to resolve substantially all outstanding and potential repurchase and certain other claims relating to the origination, sale and delivery of residential mortgage loans originated and sold directly to FNMA from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2008 by entities related to legacy Countrywide Financial Corporation (Countrywide) and Bank of America, N.A. (BANA). The FNMA Settlement extinguished substantially all of the unresolved repurchase claims from FNMA, as well as any future representations and warranties repurchase claims, associated with such loans, subject to certain exceptions which we do not expect to be material. 
  At December 31, 2012, the total notional amount of our unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims was approximately   $28.3 billion  , which included $12.2 billion resolved by the FNMA Settlement, compared to $12.6 billion at December 31, 2011. 
  In addition to repurchase claims, we receive notices from mortgage insurance companies of claim denials, cancellations or coverage rescission (collectively, MI rescission notices) and the number of such notices has remained elevated. As of   December 31, 2012  , 68 percent of the MI rescission notices we have received have not yet been resolved. The FNMA Settlement clarified the parties  obligations with respect to MI, including establishing timeframes for certain payments and other actions, setting parameters for potential bulk settlements and providing for cooperation in future dealings with mortgage insurers. As a result, we will be required to remit to FNMA the amount of certain MI coverage as a result of MI claims rescissions in advance of collection from the mortgage insurance companies and, in certain cases, we may not ultimately collect all such amounts from the mortgage insurance companies. 
  The total amount of our recorded liability related to representations and warranties repurchase exposures (which includes exposures related to MI rescission notices) was   $19.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012  . We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to $4 billion over accruals at December 31, 2012. This range of possible loss reflects the impact of the FNMA Settlement and covers principally non-GSE exposures. Our estimated range of possible loss does not represent a probable loss. 
  Our estimated liability and range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures is based on then-currently available information and is necessarily dependent on, and limited by a number of factors, including our historical claims and settlement experience, including the FNMA Settlement,  

projections of future defaults and, for private-label securitizations, the implied repurchase experience based on the pending Bank of New York Mellon settlement (BNY Mellon Settlement), as well as significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change, including the assumption that the conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement are satisfied. As a result, our liability and estimated range of possible loss related to our representations and warranties exposures may materially change in the future based on factors beyond our control. Future provisions and/or estimated ranges of possible loss for representations and warranties may be significantly impacted if actual experiences are different from our assumptions in our predictive models, including, without limitation, ultimate resolution of the BNY Mellon Settlement, estimated repurchase rates, economic conditions, estimated home prices, consumer and counterparty behavior, and a variety of other judgmental factors. In addition, we have not recorded any representations and warranties liability for certain potential private-label securitization and whole-loan exposures where we have little to no claim experience. Additionally, reserves for certain potential monoline exposures are considered in our litigation reserves. 
  Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the assumptions underlying the liability for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss could result in significant increases to future provisions and/or the estimated range of possible loss. For example, if courts, in the context of claims brought by private-label securitization trustees, were to disagree with our interpretation that the underlying agreements require a claimant to prove that the representations and warranties breach was the cause of the loss, it could significantly impact the estimated range of possible loss. Additionally, if recent court rulings related to monoline litigation, including one related to us, that have allowed sampling of loan files instead of requiring a loan-by-loan review to determine if a representations and warranties breach has occurred, are followed generally by the courts in other monoline litigation, private-label securitization counterparties may view litigation as a more attractive alternative compared to a loan-by-loan review. 
  If future representations and warranties losses occur in excess of our recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss, including as a result of the factors set forth above, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The liability for obligations under representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss do not consider any losses related to litigation matters, including litigation brought by monoline insurers, disclosed in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , nor do they include any separate foreclosure costs and related costs, assessments and compensatory fees or any other possible losses related to potential claims for breaches of performance of servicing obligations (except as such losses are included as potential costs of the BNY Mellon Settlement), potential securities law or fraud claims or potential indemnity or other claims against us, including claims related to loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA). We are not able to reasonably estimate the amount of any possible loss with respect to any such servicing, securities law, fraud or other claims against us, except to the extent reflected in the aggregate range of possible loss for litigation and regulatory matters disclosed in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  ; however,  
  such loss could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows,  

financial condition and results of operations. 
  For additional information about our representations and warranties exposure, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   in the MD A on page   54  ,   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   in the MD A on page   80   and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Our representations and warranties losses could be substantially higher than existing accruals and the existing estimated range of possible loss for representations and warranties liability if court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement is not obtained or if it is otherwise abandoned. 
  The BNY Mellon Settlement is subject to final court approval and certain other conditions. Although the final court hearings on the settlement are scheduled to begin on May 30, 2013, we cannot currently predict the timing or ultimate outcome of the court approval process, which can include appeals and could take a substantial period of time. There can be no assurance that final court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement will be obtained, that all conditions will be satisfied (including the receipt of private letter rulings from the IRS and other tax rulings and opinions) or, if certain conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement permitting withdrawal are met, that the Corporation and legacy Countrywide will not withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement agreement. 
  If final court approval is not obtained with respect to the BNY Mellon Settlement, or if the Corporation and legacy Countrywide determine to withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement agreement in accordance with its terms, the Corporation s future representations and warranties losses with respect to non-GSEs could substantially exceed our non-GSE reserve, together with our estimated range of reasonably possible loss for all representations and warranties exposures of up to $4 billion over existing accruals at   December 31, 2012  . Developments with respect to one or more of the assumptions underlying the estimated range of possible loss for representations and warranties (including the timing and ultimate outcome of the court approval process relating to the BNY Mellon Settlement) could result in significant increases in our non-GSE reserve and/or this estimated range of possible loss. 
  For additional information regarding the BNY Mellon Settlement, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  If the U.S. housing market weakens, or home prices decline, our consumer loan portfolios, credit quality, credit losses, representations and warranties exposures, and earnings may be adversely affected. 
  Although U.S. home prices have shown signs of improvement during 2012, the declines over the past several years negatively impacted the demand for many of our products and the credit performance of our consumer mortgage portfolios. Additionally, our mortgage loan production volume is generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential mortgage market. 
  Conditions in the U.S. housing market over the past several years also resulted in significant write-downs of asset values in several asset classes, notably mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and exposure to monolines. If the U.S. housing market were to weaken, the value of real estate could decline, which could negatively affect our exposure to representations and warranties. While there were indications in 2012 that the U.S. economy is stabilizing, the performance of our overall consumer portfolios may  

not significantly improve in the near future. A protracted continuation or worsening of difficult housing market conditions may exacerbate the adverse effects outlined above and could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  In addition, our home equity portfolio, which makes up approximately   30   percent of our total home loans portfolio, contains a significant percentage of loans in second-lien or more junior-lien positions, and such loans have elevated risk characteristics. Our home equity portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $108.0 billion   as of December 31, 2012, including   $91.3 billion   of home equity lines of credit,   $15.3 billion   of home equity loans and   $1.4 billion   of reverse mortgages. Of the total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2012,   $21.1 billion  , or   20 percent  , were in first-lien positions (  21 percent   excluding the Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio) and $86.9 billion, or 80 percent (79 percent excluding the Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio) were in second-lien or more junior-lien positions. 
  Continued mortgage foreclosure delays and investigations into our residential mortgage foreclosure practices and our compliance with regulatory orders related to past and current servicing and foreclosure activities may significantly increase our costs. In addition, mortgage foreclosure proceedings have been slow in certain states due to a high volume of pending proceedings, which may cause us to have higher credit losses. 
  We temporarily suspended foreclosure sales in 2010 while we and regulatory authorities examined our foreclosure processes. Although we have resumed foreclosure sales in all states, our progress on foreclosure sales in states where foreclosure requires a court order (judicial states) has been much slower than in those states where foreclosure does not require a court order (non-judicial states). There continues to be a backlog of foreclosure inventory in judicial states as the process of obtaining a court order can significantly increase the time required to complete a foreclosure. Excluding fully-insured portfolios, approximately 30 percent of our residential mortgage loan portfolio, including 36 percent of nonperforming residential mortgage loans, and 36 percent of our home equity portfolio, including 44 percent of nonperforming home equity loans, were in judicial states as of December 31, 2012. 
  The implementation of changes in procedures and controls, including loss mitigation procedures related to our ability to recover on FHA insurance-related claims, and governmental, regulatory and judicial actions, may result in continuing delays in foreclosure proceedings and foreclosure sales and create obstacles to the collection of certain fees and expenses, in both judicial and non-judicial foreclosures, which could cause us to have higher credit losses. 
  We entered into a consent order with the Federal Reserve and BANA entered into a consent order with the OCC on April 13, 2011 (2011 OCC Consent Order). The 2011 OCC Consent Order required that we submit a plan to the OCC to remediate all financial injury to borrowers caused by any identified foreclosure deficiencies following an independent foreclosure review (IFR). On January 7, 2013, we and other mortgage servicing companies reached an agreement in principle with the Federal Reserve and the OCC to cease the IFR and replace it with an accelerated remediation process (2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement). Under the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement, we made a cash payment of $1.1 billion and agreed to provide approximately $1.8 billion of borrower  

assistance in the form of loan modifications and other foreclosure prevention actions. 
  In March 2012, we entered into settlement agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice, various federal regulatory agencies and 49 state Attorneys General; the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD); and the Federal Reserve and the OCC (collectively, the National Mortgage Settlement). The National Mortgage Settlement became final upon a U.S. District Court order in April 2012 and (1) resolved federal and state investigations into certain origination, servicing and foreclosure practices, (2) resolved certain HUD claims relating to the origination of FHA-insured mortgage loans, primarily by Countrywide prior to and for a period following our acquisition of that lender, and (3) imposed civil monetary penalties by both the Federal Reserve and the OCC related to conduct that was the subject of the 2011 OCC Consent Order. The National Mortgage Settlement did not cover claims arising out of securitization (including representations made to investors with respect to MBS), criminal claims, private claims by borrowers, claims by certain states for injunctive relief or actual economic damages to borrowers related to Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS), and claims by the GSEs (including repurchase demands), among other items. Under the terms of the National Mortgage Settlement, we must establish certain uniform servicing standards and make available approximately $7.6 billion in borrower assistance in the form of, among other things, principal reduction, short sales and deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, and approximately $1.0 billion in refinancing assistance. We also entered into agreements with several states under which we committed to perform certain minimum levels of principal reduction and related activities within those states. 
  As part of the FNMA Settlement, we agreed to make a cash payment to FNMA to settle substantially all of FNMA s outstanding and future claims for compensatory fees arising out of past foreclosure delays. Notwithstanding the FNMA Settlement, we expect that mortgage-related assessments and waiver costs, including compensatory fees, and other costs associated with foreclosures will remain elevated as additional loans are delayed in the foreclosure process. This will likely result in continued elevated noninterest expense, including default servicing costs and legal expenses, which may be partially offset by the impact of MSR sales. Contributing to the elevated default servicing costs are required process changes, including those required under the consent orders with federal bank regulators. Delays in foreclosure sales may result in additional costs associated with the maintenance of properties or possible home price declines, result in a greater number of nonperforming loans and increased servicing advances and may adversely impact the collectability of such advances and the value of our MSR asset, MBS and real estate owned properties. With respect to GSE MBS, the valuation of certain MBS could be negatively affected under certain scenarios due to changes in the timing of cash flows. With respect to non-GSE MBS, under certain scenarios the timing and amount of cash flows could be negatively affected. 
  We continue to be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current servicing and foreclosure activities, including those claims not covered by the National Mortgage Settlement. This scrutiny may extend beyond our pending foreclosure matters to issues arising out of alleged irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure activities. The current environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny has the potential to subject us to inquiries or investigations that could  

adversely affect our reputation. Such investigations by state and federal authorities, as well as any other governmental or regulatory scrutiny of our foreclosure processes, could result in fines, penalties, equitable remedies, additional default servicing requirements and process changes, or other enforcement actions, and could result in higher legal costs in responding to governmental investigations and additional litigation. 
  For additional information regarding the temporary suspension of our foreclosure sales, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Other Mortgage-related Matters in the MD A on page   61  . 
  Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer in the residential mortgage securitization process, including residential mortgage foreclosure obligations, along with other losses we could incur in our capacity as servicer, could cause significant losses. 
  We and our legacy companies have securitized a significant portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originated or acquired. We service a large portion of the loans we have securitized and also service loans on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. In addition to identifying specific servicing criteria, pooling and servicing arrangements in a securitization or whole loan sale typically impose standards of care on the servicer that may include the obligation to adhere to the accepted servicing practices of prudent mortgage lenders and/or to exercise the degree of care and skill that the servicer employs when servicing loans for its own account. 
  Many non-GSE residential mortgage-backed securitizations and whole-loan servicing agreements also require us to indemnify the trustee or other investor for or against failures by us to perform our servicing obligations or acts or omissions that involve willful malfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of, our duties. Servicing agreements with the GSEs generally provide the GSEs with broader rights relative to the servicer than are found in servicing agreements with private investors. Each GSE typically claims the right to demand that we repurchase loans that breach the seller s representations and warranties made in connection with the initial sale of the loans, even if we were not the seller. The GSEs also claim that they have the contractual right to demand indemnification or loan repurchase for certain servicing breaches. The GSEs  first mortgage seller/servicer guides provide for timelines to resolve delinquent loans through workout efforts or liquidation, if necessary, and purport to require the imposition of compensatory fees if those deadlines are not satisfied except for reasons beyond our control. We believe that the governing contracts, our course of dealing and collective past practices and understandings should inform resolution of these matters. Beginning in 2010, the GSEs increased the level of compensatory fees imposed and amended those servicing guides retroactively to impose significantly new and more stringent requirements relating to default activities, which could increase our exposure to claims for compensatory fees. As part of the FNMA Settlement, we agreed to make a cash payment to FNMA to settle substantially all of FNMA s outstanding and future claims for compensatory fees arising out of past foreclosure delays. 
  With regard to alleged irregularities in foreclosure process-related activities referred to above, we may incur costs or losses if we elect or are required to re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may also incur costs or losses if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower, or overturned by a court because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process. These costs and liabilities may not be reimbursable to  

us. We may also incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in processing documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. We may be subject to deductions by insurers for MI or guarantee benefits relating to delays or alleged deficiencies. Additionally, if we commit a material breach of our servicing obligations that is not cured within specified timeframes, including those related to default servicing and foreclosure, we could be terminated as servicer under servicing agreements in certain circumstances. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or increase our servicing costs. 
  Mortgage notes, assignments or other documents are often required to be maintained and are often necessary to enforce mortgages loans. There has been significant public commentary regarding the common industry practice of recording mortgages in the name of MERS, as nominee on behalf of the note holder, and whether securitization trusts own the loans purported to be conveyed to them and have valid liens securing those loans. We currently use the MERS system for a substantial portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originate, including loans that have been sold to investors or securitization trusts. A component of the 2011 OCC Consent Order requires significant changes in the manner in which we service loans identifying MERS as the mortgagee. Additionally, certain local and state governments have commenced legal actions against us, MERS, and other MERS members, questioning the validity of the MERS model. Other challenges have also been made to the process for transferring mortgage loans to securitization trusts, asserting that having a mortgagee of record that is different than the holder of the mortgage note could  break the chain of title  and cloud the ownership of the loan. In order to foreclose on a mortgage loan, in certain cases it may be necessary or prudent for an assignment of the mortgage to be made to the holder of the note, which in the case of a mortgage held in the name of MERS as nominee would need to be completed by a MERS signing officer. As such, our practice is to obtain assignments of mortgages from MERS prior to instituting foreclosure. If certain required documents are missing or defective, or if the use of MERS is found not to be valid, we could be obligated to cure certain defects or in some circumstances be subject to additional costs and expenses. Our use of MERS as nominee for the mortgage may also create reputational and other risks for us. 
  In addition to the adverse impact these factors could directly have on us, we may also face negative reputational costs from these servicing risks, which could reduce our future business opportunities in this area or cause that business to be on less favorable terms to us. 
  For additional information, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations in the MD A on page   54  . 
  Liquidity Risk 
  Liquidity Risk is the Potential Inability to Meet Our Contractual and Contingent Financial Obligations, On- or Off-balance Sheet, as they Become Due. 
  Adverse changes to our credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies could significantly limit our access to funding or the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs, or trigger additional collateral or funding requirements. 
  Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be  

important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies which consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. 
  On June 21, 2012, Moody s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody s) completed its previously-announced review for possible downgrade of financial institutions with global capital markets operations, downgrading the ratings of 15 banks and securities firms, including our ratings. The Corporation s long-term debt rating and BANA s long-term and short-term debt ratings were downgraded one notch as part of this action. Each of the three major rating agencies downgraded the ratings for the Corporation and its rated subsidiaries in late 2011. 
  Currently, the Corporation s long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies are as follows: Baa2/P-2 (negative) by Moody  A-/A-2 (negative) by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (S  and A/F1 (stable) by Fitch Ratings (Fitch). The rating agencies could make further adjustments to our credit ratings at any time. There can be no assurance that additional downgrades will not occur. 
  A further reduction in certain of our credit ratings could negatively affect our liquidity, access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker/dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, we may suffer the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing, and/or increased cost of funds. 
  In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of a further downgrade of our credit ratings or certain subsidiaries  credit ratings, counterparties to those agreements may require us or certain subsidiaries to provide additional collateral, terminate these contracts or agreements, or provide other remedies. At   December 31, 2012  , if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for us or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the amount of additional collateral contractually required by derivative contracts and other trading agreements would have been approximately   $3.3 billion   comprised of   $2.9 billion   for BANA and   $418 million   for Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch) and certain of its subsidiaries. If the agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for these entities by a second incremental notch, approximately   $4.4 billion   in additional incremental collateral comprised of   $455 million   for BANA and   $4.0 billion   for Merrill Lynch and certain of its subsidiaries, would have been required. 
  Also, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for us or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of   December 31, 2012   was   $3.8 billion  , against which   $3.0 billion   of collateral has been  

posted. If the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for us and certain subsidiaries by a second incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of   December 31, 2012   was an incremental   $1.7 billion  , against which   $1.1 billion   of collateral has been posted. 
  While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit ratings downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. 
  For additional information about our credit ratings and their potential effects to our liquidity, see   Liquidity Risk   Credit Ratings   in the MD A on page   78   and   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  If we are unable to access the capital markets, continue to maintain deposits, sell assets on favorable terms, or our borrowing costs increase, our liquidity and competitive position will be negatively affected. 
  Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the capital markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources, such as repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive in nature. We also engage in asset securitization transactions, including with the GSEs, to fund consumer lending activities. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by any inability to access the capital markets; illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets; unforeseen outflows of cash, including customer deposits, funding for commitments and contingencies, including Variable Rate Demand Notes; the ability to sell assets on favorable terms; increased liquidity requirements on our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries imposed by their home countries; or negative perceptions about our short- or long-term business prospects, including downgrades of our credit ratings. Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances beyond our control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally, changes in the regulatory environment, actions by credit rating agencies or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. 
  Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Credit spreads are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of a similar maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can significantly increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. 
  For additional information about our liquidity position and other liquidity matters, including credit ratings and outlooks and the policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity risks, see   Capital Management   and   Liquidity Risk   in the MD A on pages   70   and   75  . 

Bank of America Corporation is a holding company and we depend upon our subsidiaries for liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, may restrict our ability to transfer funds from our subsidiaries to Bank of America Corporation or other subsidiaries. 
  Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, including the parent company. For instance, the parent company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbanking subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker/dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. In addition, our bank and broker/dealer subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses. 
  Additional restrictions on related party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of the parent company and even require the parent company to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors. For additional information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity   and   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Credit Risk 
  Credit Risk is the Risk of Loss Arising from a Borrower, Obligor or Counterparty Default when a Borrower, Obligor or Counterparty does not Meet its Obligations. 
  Economic or market disruptions, insufficient credit loss reserves or concentration of credit risk may necessitate an increase in the provision for credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their agreements. A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. As one of the nation s largest lenders, the credit quality of our consumer and commercial portfolios has a significant impact on our earnings. 

Global and U.S. economic conditions may impact our credit portfolios. To the extent economic or market disruptions occur, such disruptions would likely increase our credit exposure to customers, obligors or other counterparties due to the increased risk that they may default on their obligations to us. These potential increases in delinquencies and default rates could adversely affect our consumer credit card, home equity, consumer real estate and purchased credit-impaired portfolios, through increased charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Additionally, increased credit risk could also adversely affect our commercial loan portfolios. 
  We estimate and establish an allowance for credit losses for losses inherent in our lending activities (including unfunded lending commitments), excluding those measured at fair value, through a charge to earnings. The amount of allowance is determined based on our evaluation of the potential credit losses included within our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance, which is critical to our financial condition and results of operations, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how our borrowers will react to those conditions. Our ability to assess future economic conditions or the creditworthiness of our customers, obligors or other counterparties is imperfect. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans will likely be impacted by changes in economic conditions, which in turn could impact the accuracy of our forecasts. 
  As with any such assessments, there is also the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we identify. We may suffer unexpected losses if the models and assumptions we use to establish reserves and make judgments in extending credit to our borrowers and other counterparties become less predictive of future events. Although we believe that our allowance for credit losses was in compliance with applicable accounting standards at   December 31, 2012  , there is no guarantee that it will be sufficient to address future credit losses, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate. In such an event, we might need to increase the size of our allowance, which reduces our earnings. 
  In the ordinary course of our business, we also may be subject to a concentration of credit risk in a particular industry, country, counterparty, borrower or issuer. A deterioration in the financial condition or prospects of a particular industry or a failure or downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity or group of entities could negatively affect our businesses, and the processes by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers/dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and insurers. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political conditions, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies could impact the operating budgets or credit ratings of sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities and expose us to credit risk. 
  We also have a concentration of credit risk with respect to our consumer real estate, consumer credit card and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a large percentage of our overall credit portfolio. The economic downturn has adversely affected  

these portfolios and further exposed us to this concentration of risk. Continued economic weakness or deterioration in real estate values or household incomes could result in higher credit losses. 
  For additional information about our credit risk and credit risk management policies and procedures, see   Credit Risk Management   in the MD A on page   79   and   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We could suffer losses and our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be adversely affected as a result of the actions or deterioration in the commercial soundness of our counterparties and other financial services institutions. 
  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers/dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. Financial services institutions and other counterparties are inter-related because of trading, funding, clearing or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to significant future liquidity problems, including losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be impacted when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. 
  Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected risks and potential losses. 
  We are party to a large number of derivatives transactions, including credit derivatives. Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. The terms of certain of our OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of certain specified events, such as a change in our credit ratings, we may be required to provide additional collateral or to provide other remedies, or our counterparties may have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under these contracts or agreements. 
  Many derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling some positions difficult. Many derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. 
  In the event of a further downgrade of the Corporation s credit ratings, certain derivative and other counterparties may request we substitute BANA as counterparty for certain derivative contracts and other trading agreements. Our ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements to meet counterparties  requests may be subject to certain limitations, including counterparty willingness, regulatory limitations on naming BANA as the new counterparty, and the type or amount of collateral required. It is possible that such limitations on our ability to substitute or make  

changes to these agreements, including naming BANA as the new counterparty, could adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Derivatives contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. While a transaction remains unconfirmed or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivatives products have been created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts may arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs. 
  For additional information on our derivatives exposure, see   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Market Risk 
  Market Risk is the Risk that Values of Assets and Liabilities or Revenues will be Adversely Affected by Changes in Market Conditions Such as Market Volatility. Market Risk is Inherent in the Financial Instruments Associated with our Operations, Including Loans, Deposits, Securities, Short-term Borrowings, Long-term Debt, Trading Account Assets and Liabilities, and Derivatives. 
  Negative changes in the levels of market volatility and other financial or capital market conditions may increase our market risk. 
  Our liquidity, cash flows, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition   are affected by market risk factors such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, the implied volatility of interest rates, credit spreads and other economic and business factors. These market risks may adversely affect, among other things, (i) the value of our on- and off-balance sheet securities, trading assets other financial instruments, and MSRs, (ii) the cost of debt capital and our access to credit markets, (iii) the value of assets under management, (iv) fee income relating to assets under management, (v) customer allocation of capital among investment alternatives, (vi) the volume of client activity in our trading operations, (vii) investment banking fees, and (viii) the general profitability and risk level of the transactions in which we engage. For example, the value of certain of our assets is sensitive to changes in market interest rates. If the Federal Reserve changes or signals a change in its current mortgage securities repurchase program, market interest rates could be affected, which could adversely impact the value of such assets. 
  We use various models and strategies to assess and control our market risk exposures but those are subject to inherent limitations. Our models, which rely on historical trends and assumptions, may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or unanticipated market movements and illiquidity, especially during severe market downturns or stress events. The models that we use to assess and control our market risk exposures also reflect assumptions about the degree of correlation among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. 
  In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as the market conditions experienced in 2008 and 2009,  

previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In addition, challenging market conditions may also adversely affect our investment banking fees. 
  For additional information about market risk and our market risk management policies and procedures, see   Market Risk Management   in the MD A on page   113  . 
  Further downgrades in the U.S. government     s sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to the Corporation and its credit ratings and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict. 
  On June 8, 2012, S P affirmed its AA+ long-term and A-1+ short-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government. The outlook remains negative. On July 10, 2012, Fitch affirmed its AAA long-term and F1+ short-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government. The outlook remains negative. Moody s also rates the U.S. government AAA with a negative outlook. All three rating agencies have indicated that they will continue to assess fiscal projections and consolidation measures, as well as the medium-term economic outlook for the U.S. 
  There continues to be the perceived risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. government, including the ratings of U.S. Treasury securities and other government-backed securities. It is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Corporation, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. 
  We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. The credit rating agencies  ratings for the Corporation or its subsidiaries could be directly or indirectly impacted by a downgrade of the U.S. government s sovereign rating because the credit ratings of large systemically important financial institutions, including the Corporation, currently incorporate a degree of uplift due to assumptions concerning government support. In addition, the Corporation presently delivers a material portion of the residential mortgage loans it originates into GSEs,  

agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. 
  A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which the Corporation is subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Our businesses may be affected by uncertainty about the financial stability of several European Union (EU) countries, the risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt and related stresses on financial markets, the Euro and the EU. 
  Risks and ongoing concerns about the debt crisis in Europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of European financial institutions and international financial institutions with exposure to the region, including us. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and residential mortgages, and housing prices among other factors. There can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, and the possible loss of EU member states, will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. To the extent European economic recovery uncertainty continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, or should the EU enter a deep recession, both the U.S. economy and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 
  The Corporation has substantial U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of net operating losses (NOLs) that are realizable by a few non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a recent history of cumulative losses. These net deferred tax assets relate to NOLs that may be realized over an extended number of years. Management has concluded that no valuation allowance is necessary with respect to such net deferred tax assets, based in part on current expectations, including regarding the cessation of certain business activities, changes to capital and funding, forecasts of business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. Significant changes to those expectations, such as would be caused by a substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe s capital markets, could lead management to reassess its valuation allowance conclusions. 
  Global economic uncertainty, regulatory initiatives and reform have impacted, and will likely continue to impact, non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios. There can be no assurance our risk mitigation efforts in this respect will be sufficient or successful. Our total sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, was   $14.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $15.2 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . Our total net sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to these countries was   $9.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $10.3 billion   at   December 31, 2011  , after taking into account net credit default protection. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the fair value of net credit default protection purchased was   $5.1 billion   and   $4.9 billion  . Losses could still result because our credit protection contracts only pay out under certain scenarios. 

For more information on our direct sovereign and non-sovereign exposures in Europe, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   in the MD A on page   105  . 
  We may incur losses if the values of certain assets decline. 
  We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including, among others, certain corporate loans and loan commitments, loans held-for-sale, repurchase agreements, long-term deposits, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives assets and liabilities, available-for-sale debt and marketable equity securities, consumer-related MSRs and certain other assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value. We determine the fair values of these instruments based on the fair value hierarchy under applicable accounting guidance. The fair values of these financial instruments include adjustments for market liquidity, credit quality and other transaction-specific factors, where appropriate. 
  Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct and significant impact on our results of operations, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures. Changes in loan prepayment speeds, which are influenced by interest rates, among other things, can impact the value of our MSRs and can result in higher or lower mortgage banking income and earnings, depending upon our ability to fully hedge the performance of our MSRs. Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the underlying assets or the prices at which observable market transactions occur and the continued availability of these transactions. The financial strength of counterparties, with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure to these assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets. Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail or eliminate the trading activity for these assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted assets, which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs. 
  Asset values also directly impact revenues in our asset management businesses. We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients  portfolios or investments in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset values can reduce the value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in turn can result in lower fees earned for managing such assets. 
  For additional information about fair value measurements, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . For additional information about our asset management businesses, see Business Segment Operations     Global Wealth   Investment Management   in the MD A on page   50  . 
  Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and borrowers  ability to refinance loans could have an adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
  Government officials and regulatory authorities have advanced various proposals to assist homeowners and the housing and mortgage markets. Certain of these proposals have included expanded access to residential mortgage loan refinancing options, including refinancing options for borrowers who may be current on their existing mortgage loans and for borrowers whose current mortgage principal balance may exceed the current appraised value of the mortgaged property. Expanded refinancing access may also result from implementing the borrower assistance and remediation programs under the National Mortgage Settlement discussed above. Adopting proposals of this nature could result in increased mortgage refinancings, and greater reductions in  

interest rates and principal prepayments in our mortgage portfolio than otherwise expected without those proposals. Reductions in interest rates and increases in mortgage prepayment speeds could adversely impact the value of our MSR asset, cause a significant acceleration of purchase premium amortization on our mortgage portfolio, and adversely affect our net interest margin. Conversely, increases in interest rates and unavailability of expanded refinancing access may result in a decrease in residential mortgage loan originations. 
  For additional information about interest rate risk management, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities   in the MD A on page   117  . 
  Changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or other reference rates may adversely impact the value of debt securities and other financial instruments we hold or issue that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates in ways that are difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations. 
  In recent years, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of the calculation of the daily LIBOR. The method for determining how LIBOR is formulated and its use in the market going forward may change, including, but not limited to, replacing the administrator of LIBOR, reducing the currencies and tenors for which LIBOR is calculated. and requiring banks to provide LIBOR submissions based on actual transaction data or otherwise changing the structure of LIBOR, each of which could impact the volatility of LIBOR. Similar changes may occur with respect to other reference rates. Accordingly, it is not currently possible to determine whether, or to what extent, any such changes would impact the value of any debt securities we hold or issue that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or any loans, derivatives and other financial obligations or extensions of credit we hold or are due to us, or for which we are an obligor, that are linked to LIBOR or other reference rates, or whether, or to what extent, such changes would impact our financial condition or results of operations. 
  Regulatory and Legal Risk 
  Bank regulatory agencies may require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital, increase our regulatory capital ratios or increase liquidity, which could result in the need to issue additional securities that qualify as regulatory capital or to sell company assets. 
  We are subject to the Federal Reserve s risk-based capital guidelines. These guidelines establish regulatory capital requirements for banking institutions to meet minimum requirements as well as to qualify as a  well-capitalized  institution. If any of our subsidiary insured depository institutions fail to maintain its status as  well-capitalized  under the applicable regulatory capital rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the insured depository institution or institutions back to  well-capitalized  status. For the duration of such an agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter into such an agreement, or fail to comply with the terms of such agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose more severe restrictions on our activities, including requiring us to cease and desist activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
  It is possible that increases in regulatory capital requirements, changes in how regulatory capital is calculated or increases to liquidity requirements may cause the loss of our  well-capitalized  status unless we increase our capital levels by issuing additional  

common stock, thus diluting our existing shareholders, or by selling assets. On December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve proposed rules relating to risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity requirements, stress tests, single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements. On October 12, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued final rules requiring covered entities to undergo annual stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve and conduct their own  company-run  stress tests twice a year. Those rules, and the remaining rules, when finalized, are likely to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity could cause us to sell certain assets, perhaps on terms unfavorable to us and contrary to our business plans. Such a requirement could also compel us to issue additional securities, which could dilute our current stockholders. 
  For additional information about the proposals described above and their potential effect on our required levels of regulatory capital, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital   in the MD A on page   70  . 
  Government measures to regulate the financial industry, including the Financial Reform Act, have increased and will continue to increase our compliance and operating costs and could require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our product offerings, limit our ability to efficiently pursue business opportunities, require an increase to our regulatory capital, impact asset values and reduce our revenues. 
  As a financial institution, we are heavily regulated at the state, federal and international levels. Following the financial crisis and related global economic downturn, we have faced and expect to continue to face increased public and legislative scrutiny as well as stricter and more comprehensive regulation of our business. These regulatory and legislative measures, either individually, in combination or in the aggregate, could require us to further change our business practices, impose additional costs on us, limit our product offerings, limit our ability to efficiently pursue business opportunities, require an increase in our regulatory capital, impact asset values and reduce our revenues. 
  Federal banking and securities regulatory agencies have proposed regulations under the Financial Reform Act to limit proprietary trading as well as the sponsorship of or investment in hedge funds and private equity funds (the Volcker Rule). The proposed regulations include clarifications to the definition of proprietary trading and distinctions between permitted and prohibited activities. Although the comment period for these proposed regulations has expired, the regulatory agencies have not finalized the Volcker Rule regulations. 
  The statutory provisions of the Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012 and gave financial institutions two years from the effective date, with the possibility for extensions for certain investments, to bring activities and investments into compliance with the statutory provisions and final regulations. Although   Global Markets   exited its stand-alone proprietary trading business as of June 30, 2011 in anticipation of the Volcker Rule and to further our initiative to optimize our balance sheet, the ultimate impact of the Volcker Rule on us remains uncertain as the regulations implementing the Volcker Rule are not final. However, based on the contents of the proposed regulations, it is possible the Volcker Rule implementation could limit or restrict our remaining trading activities. If exemptions in the Volcker Rule and the proposed regulations are not available, the Volcker Rule could also limit or restrict our ability to sponsor and hold ownership interests in hedge  

funds, private equity funds, commodity pools and other subsidiary operations. Additionally, the Volcker Rule could increase our operational and compliance costs, reduce our trading revenues, and adversely affect our results of operations. The date on which final regulations will be issued is currently uncertain. 
  Additionally, the Financial Reform Act includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; and imposing position limits on certain OTC derivatives. The Financial Reform Act grants the CFTC and the SEC substantial new authority and requires numerous rulemakings by these agencies.   Swap dealers conducting dealing activity with U.S. persons above a specified dollar threshold were required to register with the CFTC on or before December 31, 2012.   Upon registration, swap dealers became subject to additional CFTC rules relating to business conduct and reporting, and will continue to become subject to additional CFTC rules as and when such rules take effect. 
  The Financial Reform Act required regulators to promulgate the rulemakings necessary to implement these regulations by July 16, 2011. However, the rulemaking process was not completed as of that date, and is not expected to conclude until well into 2013. Further, the regulators granted temporary relief from certain requirements that would have taken effect on July 16, 2011 absent any rulemaking. The SEC temporary relief is effective until final rules relevant to each requirement become effective. The CFTC temporary relief largely expired on December 31, 2012. The CFTC also granted relief from some of the rules that would have become effective during the fourth quarter of 2012, either completely suspending or delaying the application of some requirements. 
  While the CFTC has provided temporary exemptive relief from application of derivatives requirements of the Financial Reform Act for certain non-U.S. derivatives activity, there remains some uncertainty as to how the derivatives requirements of the Financial Reform Act will apply to non-U.S. derivatives activity because the CFTC has not yet adopted final cross-border guidance.   The CFTC has completed much of its other rulemakings, with the exception of final margin, capital and exchange trading rules, while the SEC has finalized a small number of clearing-related rules.   The ultimate impact of the derivatives regulations that have not yet been finalized and the time it will take to comply remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose additional operational and compliance costs on us and may require us to restructure certain businesses and may negatively impact our results of operations. 
  In April 2011, a new Financial Reform Act regulation became effective implementing revisions to the FDIC s assessment system that increased our FDIC expense. In addition, the FDIC has broad discretionary authority to increase assessments on large and highly complex institutions on a case by case basis. Any future increases in required deposit insurance premiums or other bank industry fees could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  The Financial Reform Act established an orderly liquidation process in the event of the failure of a large systemically important financial institution. Specifically, when a systemically important financial institution such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such systemically important financial institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could invoke a new form of resolution authority, the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the  

Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. Macroprudential systemic protection is the primary objective of the orderly liquidation authority, subject to minimum threshold protections for creditors. Accordingly, in certain circumstances under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors  consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a bank holding company s outstanding equity. For example, the FDIC could follow a  single point of entry  approach and replace a distressed bank holding company with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original bank holding company.   Additionally, under the orderly liquidation authority, amounts owed to the U.S. government generally receive a statutory payment priority  . 
  In addition, under the Financial Reform Act, all bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more are required to develop and submit resolution plans to the FDIC and the Federal Reserve, who will review such plans to determine whether they are credible. If the FDIC and the Federal Reserve determine that our plan is not credible and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the Corporation. We could be required to take certain actions that could impose operational costs and could potentially result in the divestiture or restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries. We submitted our initial plan in 2012, which is to be updated annually. 
  Similarly, in the U.K., the FSA has issued proposed rules requiring the submission of significant information about certain U.K. incorporated subsidiaries and other financial institutions, as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K., (including information on intra-group dependencies, legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) to allow the FSA to develop resolution plans. As a result of the FSA review, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could impose operational costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries. 
  The Financial Reform Act established the CFPB, which principally regulates the offering of consumer financial products or services under federal consumer financial laws, and which has commenced its supervisory oversight. Through its rulemaking authority, the CFPB has promulgated several proposed and final rules that will affect our consumer businesses, including, but not limited to, establishing enhanced underwriting standards and new mortgage loan servicing standards. The CFPB has also proposed rules addressing items such as remittance transfer services, appraisal requirements and loan originator compensation requirements. The Corporation is evaluating the various CFPB rules and proposals and devoting substantial compliance, legal and operational business resources to facilitate compliance with these rules by their respective effective dates. We cannot predict the ultimate impact on us of the final and proposed CFPB rules, due to, among other things, uncertainty created by a recent court decision invalidating appointments to the National Labor Relations Board by President Obama, which, if upheld and applied to similar appointments to the CFPB, could call into question the validity of certain actions by the CFPB or result in the subsequent invalidation  

of such rules; however, it is possible that the final and proposed rules could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. 
  On December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement enhanced supervisory and prudential requirements and the early remediation requirements established under the Financial Reform Act. The enhanced standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity standards, requirements for overall risk management, single-counterparty credit limits, stress test requirements and a debt-to-equity limit for certain companies determined to pose a threat to financial stability. On October 12, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued final rules requiring covered entities to undergo annual stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve and conduct their own  company-run  stress tests twice a year. Final regulations addressing the remaining items have not yet been adopted. The final rules are likely to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. 
  Many of the provisions under the Financial Reform Act have only begun to be implemented or remain to be implemented in the future and will be subject both to further rulemaking and the discretion of applicable regulatory bodies. The Financial Reform Act will continue to impact our earnings through fee reductions, higher costs and imposition of new restrictions on us. The Financial Reform Act may also continue to have a material adverse impact on the value of certain assets and liabilities held on our balance sheet. The ultimate impact of the Financial Reform Act on our business will depend on regulatory interpretation and rulemaking, as well as the success of any of our actions to mitigate the negative impacts of certain provisions. 
  In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) issued  Basel 3: A global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems  and  International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring  (together, Basel 3). If implemented by U.S. banking regulators as proposed, Basel 3 s capital standards could significantly increase our capital requirements. Basel 3 and the Financial Reform Act propose the disqualification of trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, with the Financial Reform Act proposing that the disqualification be phased in from 2013 to 2015. Basel 3 also proposes the deduction of certain assets from capital (deferred tax assets, MSRs, investments in financial firms and pension assets, among others, within prescribed limitations), the inclusion of accumulated OCI in capital, increased capital requirements for counterparty credit risk, and new minimum capital and buffer requirements. 
  Basel 3 also proposes two minimum liquidity risk measures. The liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) measures the amount of a financial institution s unencumbered, high-quality, liquid assets relative to the net cash outflows the institution could encounter under a significant 30-day stress scenario. The net stable funding ratio (NSFR) measures the amount of longer-term, stable sources of funding employed by a financial institution relative to the liquidity profiles of the assets funded and the potential for contingent calls on funding liquidity arising from off-balance sheet commitments and obligations over a one-year period. The Basel Committee announced in January 2013 that the initial minimum LCR requirement of 60 percent will be implemented in January 2015, and will thereafter increase in 10 percent annual increments through January 2019. The Basel Committee is currently reviewing the NSFR and has indicated that it intends for the requirement to  

be implemented by January 2018, following an observation period that is currently underway.  
  On July 19, 2011, the Basel Committee published the consultative document,  Globally systemic important banks: Assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement,  which sets out measures for global, systemically important financial institutions including the methodology for measuring systemic importance, the systemically important financial institution buffer and the arrangements by which they will be phased in. As proposed, the systemically important financial institution buffer would be met with additional Tier 1 common equity ranging from one percent to 2.5 percent, and in certain circumstances, 3.5 percent. This will be phased in from 2016 through 2018. As of December 31, 2012, we estimate our systemically important financial institution buffer would have been 1.5 percent, based on the Financial Stability Board s  Update of group of global systemically important banks  issued on November 1, 2012. 
  Preparation for Basel 3 has influenced and is likely to continue to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and is expected to impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. Any requirement that we increase the amount, or change the composition, of our regulatory capital or liquidity may have a material adverse impact on the Corporation. These impacts could include, but are not limited to, potential dilution of existing stockholders, increased funding costs and competitive disadvantage compared to financial institutions not under the same regulatory framework. 
  For additional information about the regulatory initiatives discussed above, see   Regulatory Matters   in the MD A on page   64  . 
  Changes in the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our business operations and may adversely impact our business. 
  During the last ten years, we have sold over $2.0 trillion of loans to the GSEs. Each GSE is currently in a conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs  business structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs which, if enacted, could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in which we     participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form. 
  We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks from potential legal liability and regulatory action. 
  We face significant legal risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and other financial institutions remain high and are increasing. Increased litigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse effects on our financial  

condition and results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could adversely impact our business prospects. In addition, we continue to face increased litigation risk and regulatory scrutiny. We continue to experience increased litigation and other disputes with counterparties regarding relative rights and responsibilities. Consumers, clients and other counterparties have grown more litigious. Our experience with certain regulatory authorities suggests a migration towards an increasing supervisory focus on enforcement, including in connection with alleged violations of law and customer harm. The current environment of additional regulation, increased regulatory compliance burdens, and enhanced regulatory enforcement, combined with ongoing uncertainty related to the continuing evolution of the regulatory environment, has resulted in significant operational and compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing certain products and services. 
  For a further discussion of litigation risks, see   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Our business prospects are vulnerable to changes in governmental fiscal and monetary policy. 
  Our businesses and earnings are affected by domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. and its policies affect our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The Federal Reserve s actions also can affect the value of financial instruments and other assets, such as debt securities and MSRs, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Our businesses and earnings are also affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by the U.S. government, various U.S. regulatory authorities, and non-U.S. governments and regulatory authorities. Changes in domestic and international fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict but could have an adverse impact on our capital requirements and the costs of running our business. 
  We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax and other laws and regulations. 
  The U.S. Congress and the Administration have signaled interest in reforming the U.S. corporate income tax code. Possible approaches include lowering the 35 percent corporate tax rate, modifying the taxation of income earned outside the U.S. and limiting or eliminating various other deductions, tax credits and/or other tax preferences. It is not possible at this time to quantify either the one-time impact from remeasuring deferred tax assets and liabilities that might result upon tax reform enactment or the ongoing impact reform might have on income tax expense. 
  In addition, income from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries has not been subject to U.S. income tax as a result of long-standing deferral provisions applicable to income that is derived in the active conduct of a banking and financing business abroad (active finance income). The U.S. Congress has extended the application of these deferral provisions several times, most recently in January 2013. These provisions now are set to expire for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Absent an extension of these provisions, active financing income earned by certain non-U.S. subsidiaries will generally be subject to a tax provision that considers incremental U.S. income tax. The impact of the expiration of these provisions would depend upon the amount, composition and geographic mix of our future earnings. 

Other countries have also proposed and adopted certain regulatory changes targeted at financial institutions or that otherwise affect us. The EU has adopted increased capital requirements and the U.K. has (i) increased liquidity requirements for local financial institutions, including regulated U.K. subsidiaries of non-U.K. bank holding companies and other financial institutions as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K.; (ii) adopted a Bank Levy which will apply to the aggregate balance sheet of branches and subsidiaries of non-U.K. banks and banking groups operating in the U.K.; and (iii) proposed the creation and production of recovery and resolution plans by U.K.-regulated entities. 
  On July 17, 2012, the U.K. 2012 Finance Bill was enacted which reduced the corporate income tax rate one percent to 24 percent beginning on April 1, 2012, and then to 23 percent beginning on April 1, 2013. These rate reductions favorably affect income tax expense on future U.K. earnings but also required us to remeasure our U.K. net deferred tax assets using the lower tax rates. The income tax benefit for 2012 included a $788 million charge for the remeasurement, substantially all of which was recorded in   Global Markets  . If the corporate income tax rate were to be reduced to 21 percent by 2014 as suggested in U.K. Treasury announcements and assuming no change in the deferred tax asset balance, a charge to income tax expense of approximately $400 million for each one percent reduction in the rate would result in each period of enactment (for a total of approximately $800 million). We are also monitoring other international legislative proposals that could impact us, such as changes to corporate income tax laws. Currently, in the U.K., NOL carryforwards have an indefinite life. Were the U.K. taxing authorities to introduce limitations on the future utilization of NOLs and were the Corporation unable to document its continued ability to fully utilize its NOLs, we would be required to establish a valuation allowance by a charge to income tax expense. 
  Risk of the Competitive Environment in which We Operate 
  We face significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry. 
  We operate in a highly competitive environment. Over time, there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry, and this trend accelerated in recent years. This trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and financial services markets. We will continue to experience intensified competition as consolidation in and globalization of the financial services industry may result in larger, better-capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at more competitive prices. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions to compete with technology companies in providing electronic and internet-based financial solutions. Increased competition may negatively affect our earnings by creating pressure to lower prices on our products and services and/or reducing market share. 

Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses, including our competitive position and business prospects. 
  Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and employees is impacted by our reputation. We continue to face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn as well as alleged irregularities in servicing, foreclosure, consumer collections, mortgage loan modifications and other practices, compensation practices, our acquisitions of Countrywide and Merrill Lynch and the suitability or reasonableness of recommending particular trading or investment strategies. 
  Significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, unintended disclosure of confidential information, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry also can significantly adversely affect our reputation. 
  We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protections and other matters. Principles concerning the appropriate scope of consumer and commercial privacy vary considerably in different jurisdictions, and regulatory and public expectations regarding the definition and scope of consumer and commercial privacy may remain fluid in the future. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied by various jurisdictions in a manner inconsistent with our current or future practices, or that is inconsistent with one another. We face regulatory, reputational and operational risks if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession is mishandled or misused. 
  We could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our businesses. 
  Our actual or perceived failure to address these and other issues gives rise to reputational risk that could cause significant harm to us and our business prospects, including failure to properly address operational risks. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, legal risks and reputational harm, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. 
  Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could hurt our business prospects and competitive position. 
  Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified personnel within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry has been, and is expected to continue to be, intense. Our competitors include non-U.S.-based institutions and institutions subject to different compensation and  

hiring regulations than those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial institutions. The difficulty we face in competing for key personnel is exacerbated in emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that may have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. 
  In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, we must provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators around the world. Any future limitations on executive compensation imposed by legislation or regulation could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain qualified employees. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent years taken the form of long-term equity awards. Therefore, the ultimate value of this compensation depends on the price of our common stock when the awards vest. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified individuals, our business prospects and competitive position could be adversely affected. 
  In addition, if we fail to retain the wealth advisors that we employ in   GWIM  , particularly those with significant client relationships, such failure could result in a significant loss of clients or the withdrawal of significant client assets. 
  We may not be able to achieve expected cost savings from cost-saving initiatives, including from Project New BAC, or in accordance with currently anticipated time frames. 
  We are currently engaged in numerous efforts to achieve certain cost savings, including, among other things, Project New BAC. 
  Project New BAC is a two-phase, enterprise-wide initiative to simplify and streamline workflows and processes, align businesses and costs more closely with our overall strategic plan and operating principles, and increase revenues. Phase 1 focuses on the consumer businesses, including Deposits, Card Services and   CRES,   and related support, technology and operations functions. Phase 2 focuses on   Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   GWIM  , and related support, technology and operations functions not subject to evaluation in Phase 1. All aspects of Phase 1 of Project New BAC are currently expected to be implemented by the end of 2013, with the full cost savings impact expected to be realized in 2014, while Phase 2 is expected to be fully implemented by mid-2015. 
  We may be unable to fully realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our cost saving initiatives or in accordance with currently anticipated timeframes. 
  Our inability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our business. 
  Our business model is based on a diversified mix of business that provides a broad range of financial products and services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our success depends on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure by competitors to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services. We might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, responding or adapting to changes in consumer spending and saving habits, achieving  

market acceptance of our products and services, or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal customers. 
  Risks Related to Risk Management 
  Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses. 
  Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks, among others. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry and increases in the overall complexity of our operations, among other developments, have resulted in a heightened level of risk for us. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks. 
  For additional information about our risk management policies and procedures, see   Managing Risk   in the MD A on page   66  . 
  A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. 
  Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor, on a continuous basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization and is not limited to operations functions. Operational risk exposures can impact our results of operations, such as losses resulting from unauthorized trades by employees, and their impact may extend beyond financial losses. 
  Integral to our performance is the continued efficacy of our internal processes, systems, relationships with third parties and the vast array of employees and key executives in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. With regard to the physical infrastructure and systems that support our operations, we have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant and widespread disruption to our infrastructure or systems. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. There could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and cyber attacks. We continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth. This updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. 

Information security risks for large financial institutions like us have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state actors. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks. Our banking, brokerage, investment advisory and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, PCs and other computing devices, tablet PCs and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Our technologies, systems, networks and our customers  devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers  confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers  or other third parties  business operations. For example, our websites have been subject to a series of distributed denial of service cyber security incidents. Although these incidents have not had a material impact on Bank of America, nor have they resulted in unauthorized access to our or our customers  confidential, proprietary or other information, because of our prominence, we believe that such incidents may continue. 
  Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our Internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, the continued uncertain global economic environment, threats of cyberterrorism, and system and customer account conversions. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. 
  In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and increased interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses. This consolidation and interconnectivity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as  

disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, and could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, significant business disruption to the Corporation s operations and business, misappropriation of the Corporation s confidential information and/or that of its customers, or damage to the Corporation s computers or systems and/or those of its customers and/or counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy laws and other laws, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in the Corporation s security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs. 
  For more information on operational risks and our operational risk management, see   Operational Risk Management   in the MD A on page   120  . 
  Risk of Being an International Business 
  We are subject to numerous political, economic, market, reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. 
  We do business throughout the world, including in developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or judicial instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, other restrictive actions, unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, and changes in legislation. These risks are especially acute in emerging markets. Many non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by recessionary conditions. While a number of these jurisdictions are showing signs of recovery, others continue to experience increasing levels of stress. In addition, the increasing potential risk of default on sovereign debt in some non-U.S. jurisdictions could expose us to substantial losses. Risks in one country can affect our operations in another country or countries, including our operations in the U.S. As a result, any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our company. 
  Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services and securities industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various jurisdictions. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with regulators could have an adverse effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. 

We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and governments located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified, because non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are generally smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets. 
  In addition to non-U.S. legislation, our international operations are also subject to U.S. legal requirements. For example, our international operations are subject to U.S. laws on foreign corrupt practices, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and anti-money laundering regulations. Additionally, we are subject to Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires a registrant to provide disclosure in its periodic reports and file a notice with the SEC if it or its affiliates knowingly engage in certain activities identified under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012. The SEC is required to report any such disclosure to the U.S. President and certain Congressional committees. The President thereafter is required to initiate an investigation into the reported activity and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation, determine whether sanctions should be imposed. If we are required to report any such activities, whether or not any sanctions are actually imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 
  We are subject to geopolitical risks, including acts or threats of terrorism, and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response thereto and/or military conflicts, that could adversely affect business and economic conditions abroad as well as in the U.S. 
  For more information on our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   in the MD A on page   105  . 
  Risk from Accounting Changes 
  Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in applying accounting policies could adversely affect us. 

Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those assumptions, estimates or judgments were incorrectly made, we could be required to correct and restate prior period financial statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered public accounting firm) may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and report our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Corporation needing to revise and republish prior period financial statements. 
  The FASB issued on December 20, 2012 a proposed standard on accounting for expected credit losses. The standard would replace multiple existing impairment models, including replacing an  incurred loss  model for loans with an  expected credit loss  model. The FASB announced it will establish the effective date when it issues the final standard. We cannot predict whether or when a final standard will be issued, when it will be effective or what its final provisions will be. It is possible that the final standard could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations once it is issued and becomes effective. 
  For more information on some of our critical accounting policies and standards and recent accounting changes, see   Complex Accounting Estimates   in the MD A on page   121   and   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
    Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments 
  None 

Item 2.  Properties 
  As of   December 31, 2012  , our principal offices and other materially important properties consisted of the following: 

Facility Name 
      
    Location 
      
    General Character of the Physical Property 
      
    Primary Business Segment 
      
    Property Status 
      
    Property Square Feet    (1)  
      Corporate Center 
      
    Charlotte, NC 
      
    60 Story Building 
      
    Principal Executive Offices 
      
    Owned 
      
    1,200,392 
      One Bryant Park 
      
    New York, NY 
      
    54 Story Building 
      
    Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   GWIM 
      
    Leased    (2)  
      
    1,798,373 
      Bank of America Home Loans 
      
    Calabasas, CA 
      
    3 Story Building 
      
    CRES 
      
    Owned 
      
    245,000 
      Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 
      
    London, UK 
      
    4 Building Campus 
      
    Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   GWIM 
      
    Leased 
      
    568,256 
      Nihonbashi 1-Chome Building 
      
    Tokyo, Japan 
      
    24 Story Building 
      
    Global Banking   and   Global Markets 
      
    Leased 
      
    208,498 

(1)   
    For leased properties, property square feet represents the square footage occupied by the Corporation. 
               (2)   
    The Corporation has a 49.9 percent joint venture interest in this property. 
       We own or lease approximately 108.8 million square feet in 24,014 locations globally, including approximately 101.9 million square feet in the U.S. (all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico) and approximately 6.9 million square feet in more than   40   countries. 
  We believe our owned and leased properties are adequate for our business needs and are well maintained. We continue to evaluate our owned and leased real estate and may determine from time to time that certain of our premises and facilities, or ownership structures, are no longer necessary for our operations. In connection therewith, we are evaluating the sale or sale/ 

leaseback of certain properties and we may incur costs in connection with any such transactions. 
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
  See Litigation and Regulatory Matters in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , which is incorporated herein by reference. 
    Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures 
  None 

Part II 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
      Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange, and certain shares are listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The table below sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the periods indicated: 

As of   February 25, 2013  , there were   226,396   registered shareholders of common stock. During   2011   and   2012  , we paid dividends on the common stock on a quarterly basis. 

The table below sets forth dividends paid per share of our common stock for the periods indicated: 

For additional information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity   and   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , which are incorporated herein by reference. 
  For information on our equity compensation plans, see   Note 19   Stock-based Compensation Plans     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and   Item 12   on page   285   of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference. 
  The table below presents share repurchase activity for the three months ended   December 31, 2012  . We did not have any unregistered sales of our equity securities in   2012  . 

(1)   
    Consists of shares acquired by the Corporation in connection with satisfaction of tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock or restricted stock units and certain forfeitures from terminations of employment related to awards under equity incentive plans. 
         Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 
  See   Table 7   in the MD A on page   33   and Table XII of the Statistical Tables in the MD A on page   140  , which are incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 7. Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Throughout the MD A, we use certain acronyms and 
  abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
    This report on Form 10-K, the documents that it incorporates by reference and the documents into which it may be incorporated by reference may contain, and from time to time Bank of America Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, the Corporation) and its management may make certain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as  expects,   anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   targets,   intends,   plans,   goal  and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as  will,   may,   might,   should,   would  and  could.  The forward-looking statements made represent the current expectations, plans or forecasts of the Corporation regarding the Corporation s future results and revenues, and future business and economic conditions more generally, including statements concerning: expectations regarding actions to be taken by the Federal Reserve; transfers of servicing rights scheduled to occur in stages over the course of 2013 with the delinquent loans scheduled to be transferred after the current loans; that the criteria for inclusion in the Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolios will continue to be evaluated over time; the expectation that approximately   $200 million   in servicing fees recognized per quarter related to servicing transferred will decrease throughout 2013 as the servicing is transferred and that over time the impact on earnings will be negligible as expenses are expected to also decrease after servicing is transferred, especially the loans which are 60 days or more past due; the expectation that liability management actions taken in the fourth quarter of 2012 will result in pre-tax net interest income benefit of approximately $350 million in 2013; effects of the FNMA Settlement and 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement; the achievement of cost savings in certain noninterest expense categories as workflows continue to be streamlined, processes simplified and expenses aligned with the overall strategic plan and operating principles; projected New BAC Phase 1 annualized cost savings of more than $5 billion by the fourth quarter of 2013 with the full impact expected to be realized in 2014; the expectation that New BAC Phase 2 will result in an additional $3 billion of annualized cost savings by mid-2015; that the Corporation may conduct additional redemptions, tender offers, exercises and other transactions in the future depending on prevailing market conditions, liquidity, regulatory and other factors; the expectation that the Corporation would record a charge to income tax expense of approximately $800 million if the income tax rate were reduced to 21 percent by 2014 as suggested in U.K. Treasury announcements and assuming no change in the deferred tax asset balance; the goal to manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital; that the sale of the GWIM international wealth management business and the Japanese brokerage joint venture are not expected to have a significant impact on the Corporation s balance sheet, results of operations or capital ratios; the expectation that the Corporation will make at least   $319 million   of contributions to pension plans during 2013; the expectation that unresolved repurchase claims related to private-label securitization trustees and third-party securitization sponsors will continue to increase; the resolution of representations and warranties repurchase and other claims; the final resolution of the BNY Mellon Settlement; the estimates of liability and range of possible loss for representations and  

warranties repurchase claims; the possibility that future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the amounts recorded for those exposures; that the expiration and mutual non-renewal of certain contractual delivery commitments and variances with Fannie Mae will not have a material impact on our CRES business, as the Corporation expects to rely on other sources of liquidity to actively extend mortgage credit to customers including continuing to deliver such products into Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities pools; that there will likely be additional requests from monolines for loan files in the future leading to repurchase claims; the belief that increases in requests for loan files from certain private-label securitization trustees and requests for tolling agreements to toll the applicable statutes of limitation related to representations and warranties repurchase claims will likely lead to an increase in repurchase claims from private-label securitization trustees with standing to bring such claims; the disposition and resolution of servicing matters; that implementation of uniform servicing standards is expected to contribute to elevated costs associated with the servicing process but is not expected to result in material delays or dislocation in the performance of the mortgage servicing obligations including the completion of foreclosures; beliefs and expectations concerning the impact of the National Mortgage Settlement; the Corporation s belief that the decline in default-related servicing costs will continue to accelerate in 2013; that swap dealers will continue to become subject to additional CFTC rules as and when such rules take effect; that the proposed rule regarding credit risk retention would likely have an adverse impact on the Corporation     s ability to engage in many types of the MBS and ABS securitizations conducted in CRES, Global Markets and other business segments, impose additional operational and compliance costs and negatively influence the value, liquidity and transferability of ABS or MBS, loans and other assets; that the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act) will continue to have a significant and negative impact on earnings through fee reductions, higher costs and new restrictions as well as reductions to available capital; the substance and timing of the final rules implementing Basel 3; the expectation that the Corporation will comply with the final Basel 3 rules when issued and effective; that estimates under the Basel 3 Advanced Approach will be refined over time as a result of further rulemaking or clarification by U.S. banking regulators and as its understanding and interpretation of the rules evolve; that the final rules when adopted and fully implemented are likely to influence regulatory capital and liquidity planning processes and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation; the expectation that the Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirement will be implemented in January 2015 and the Net Stable Funding Ratio requirement in January 2018, following an observation period that began in 2011; the goal to seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, including under adverse conditions, to take advantage of organic growth opportunities, maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for the Corporation s subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital requirements; the goal of mitigating refinancing risk by actively managing the amount of borrowings that will likely mature within any month or quarter; the objective of maintaining high-quality credit ratings; that, if the Corporation s analytical models for capital measurement under Basel 3 are not approved by the U.S. regulatory  

agencies, it would likely lead to an increase in the Corporation s risk-weighted assets, which in some cases could be significant; that the Market Risk Final Rule and the Basel 3 Advanced Approach, if adopted as proposed, are expected to substantially increase the Corporation s capital requirements; that results from using stress scenario assumptions provided by the Federal Reserve will be received from the Federal Reserve on March 14, 2013; that funding trading activities in broker/dealer subsidiaries is more cost-efficient and less sensitive to changes in credit ratings than unsecured financing; that VaR model results will be supplemented if risks associated with positions that are illiquid and/or unobservable are material; the cost and availability of unsecured funding; the Corporation     s belief that it can quickly obtain cash for certain securities even in stressed market conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales; the Corporation s belief that a portion of structured liability obligations will remain outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date; the Corporation s anticipation that debt levels will continue to decline, primarily due to maturities, through 2013; that, of the loans in the pay option portfolio at   December 31, 2012   that have not already experienced a payment reset,   one percent   are expected to reset in 2013 and approximately   23 percent   thereafter, and that   seven percent   are expected to prepay and   69 percent   are expected to default prior to being reset, most of which were severely delinquent as of   December 31, 2012  ; effects of the ongoing debt crisis in Europe, including the expectation of continued volatility as long as challenges remain, the expectation that the Corporation will continue to support client activities in the region and that exposures may vary over time as the Corporation monitors the situation and manages its risk profile; the expectation that, absent unexpected deterioration in the economy, reductions in the allowance for loan and lease losses, excluding the valuation allowance for PCI loans, will continue in the near term, though at a slower pace than in 2012; the goal of mitigating market risk exposures by using techniques that encompass a variety of financial instruments in both the cash and derivatives markets; the accuracy of forward-looking forecasts of net interest income used in interest rate risk management; and other matters relating to the Corporation and the securities that it may offer from time to time. The foregoing is not an exclusive list of all forward-looking statements the Corporation makes. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation s control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements. 
  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider the following uncertainties and risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed elsewhere in this report, under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report and in any of the Corporation s subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings: the Corporation s ability to resolve  

representations and warranties repurchase claims made by monolines and private-label and other investors, including as a result of any adverse court rulings, and the chance that the Corporation could face related servicing, securities, fraud, indemnity or other claims from one or more of the monolines or private-label and other investors; the Corporation s resolution of remaining differences with the government-sponsored enterprises regarding representations and warranties repurchase claims, including in some cases with respect to mortgage insurance rescissions and foreclosure delays if future representations and warranties losses occur in excess of the Corporation s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for its representations and warranties exposures; uncertainties about the financial stability of several countries in the EU, the increasing risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt or exit the EU and related stresses on financial markets, the Euro and the EU and the Corporation s exposures to such risks, including direct, indirect and operational; the uncertainty regarding the timing and final substance of any capital or liquidity standards, including the final Basel 3 requirements and their implementation for U.S. banks through rulemaking by the Federal Reserve, including anticipated requirements to hold higher levels of regulatory capital, liquidity and meet higher regulatory capital ratios as a result of final Basel 3 or other capital or liquidity standards; the negative impact of the Financial Reform Act on the Corporation s businesses and earnings, including as a result of additional regulatory interpretation and rulemaking and the success of the Corporation s actions to mitigate such impacts; the Corporation     s satisfaction of its borrower assistance programs under the National Mortgage Settlement with federal agencies and state Attorneys General and under the acceleration agreement with the OCC and the Federal Reserve; adverse changes to the Corporation s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies; estimates of the fair value of certain of the Corporation s assets and liabilities; unexpected claims, damages and fines resulting from pending or future litigation and regulatory proceedings; the Corporation s ability to fully realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from Project New BAC, including in accordance with currently anticipated timeframes; and other similar matters. 
  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) are incorporated by reference into the MD A. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. Throughout the MD A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary. 

Executive Summary 
  Business Overview 
  The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and a financial holding company. When used in this report,  the Corporation  may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbanking subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbanking financial services and products through five business segments:   Consumer   Business Banking (CBB), Consumer Real Estate Services (CRES), Global Banking, Global Markets   and   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  , with the remaining operations recorded in  

All Other  . At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had approximately   $2.2 trillion   in assets and approximately   267,000   full-time equivalent employees. 
  As of   December 31, 2012  , we operated in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and more than   40   countries. Our retail banking footprint covers approximately 80 percent of the U.S. population and we serve more than   53 million   consumer and small business relationships with approximately   5,500   banking centers,   16,300   ATMs, nationwide call centers, and leading online and mobile banking platforms. We offer industry-leading support to more than   three million   small business owners. We are a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. 
  Table   1   provides selected consolidated financial data for   2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis, return on average tangible shareholders  equity and the efficiency ratio are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For additional information on these measures and ratios, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  , and for a corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XV. 
               (2)   
    Net income, diluted earnings per common share, return on average assets, return on average tangible shareholders  equity and the efficiency ratio have been calculated excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of   $3.2 billion   in   2011  , and accordingly, these are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information on these measures and ratios, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  , and for a corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XV. 
               (3)   
    Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see   Nonperforming Consumer Loans and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   93   and corresponding   Table 37  , and   Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   101   and corresponding   Table 46  . 
               (4)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the purchased credit-impaired valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on purchased credit-impaired write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
               (5)   
    There were no write-offs of purchased credit-impaired loans in 2011. 

2012   Economic and Business Environment 
  The U.S. economy began   2012   with momentum in consumer spending, led by stronger vehicle sales and supported by larger private payroll gains. However, over the course of the year, consumer spending slowed and business spending continued to weaken following the expiration of 2011 tax incentives and ongoing uncertainties surrounding fiscal issues in the U.S. and Europe. Payroll gains steadied to a moderate pace, while business profits and cash flows continued to rise throughout the year. The unemployment rate ended the year at 7.8 percent. Equity markets were volatile but finished with appreciable gains in   2012  . The housing sector improved as new and existing home sales rose, home prices increased and residential building activity ended the year with its seventh consecutive quarterly rise. 
  After briefly rising early in the year, bond yields fell as the U.S. economy slowed and economic uncertainties in Europe intensified. The low bond yields also reflected the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System s (Federal Reserve) monetary easing and related efforts to keep bond yields low. In December   2012  , the Federal Reserve announced that it would purchase an additional $45 billion per month of long-term U.S. Treasury securities, in addition to its $40 billion per month in mortgage-backed securities (MBS) purchases, and that any policy rate increase would be tied to a 6.5 percent unemployment rate target as long as inflation did not exceed 2.5 percent. 
  Europe experienced financial market turmoil, numerous policy interventions and spreading recession in   2012  . The European Central Bank s (ECB) long-term refinancing operations helped calm markets for a time but proved insufficient as emerging stresses generated renewed turmoil. In response to sharply rising sovereign bond yields, the ECB announced its willingness to intervene in sovereign debt markets under specified conditions which calmed markets and pushed down sovereign bond yields. Near year end, the benefits of structural reform, such as lower labor costs and smaller structural budget deficits, were becoming evident in select nations while sovereign spreads stabilized at lower levels. However, widespread recession persisted. 
  Although the Asian economy continued to expand in   2012  , several key nations slowed during the year. China s economic growth remained subdued in   2012  , adversely impacting international trade and overall Asian economic performance. Japan s economy expanded in the first half of the year but returned to recession in the second half of the year.  
    Recent Events 
  Fannie Mae Settlement 
  On January 6, 2013, we entered into an agreement with Fannie Mae (FNMA) to resolve substantially all outstanding and potential repurchase and certain other claims relating to the origination, sale and delivery of residential mortgage loans originated and sold directly to FNMA from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2008 by entities related to legacy Countrywide Financial Corporation (Countrywide) and Bank of America, N.A. (BANA). 
  This agreement covers loans with an aggregate original principal balance of approximately   $1.4 trillion  . Unresolved repurchase claims submitted by FNMA for alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties with respect to these loans totaled   $12.2 billion   at December 31, 2012. This agreement extinguished  
  substantially all of those unresolved repurchase claims, as well as substantially all future representations and warranties  

repurchase claims associated with the loans, subject to certain exceptions which we do not expect to be material. 
  In January 2013, we made a cash payment to FNMA of   $3.6 billion   and also repurchased for   $6.6 billion   certain residential mortgage loans that had previously been sold to FNMA, which we have valued at less than the purchase price.  
  This agreement also clarified the parties  obligations with respect to mortgage insurance, including establishing timeframes for certain payments and other actions, setting parameters for potential bulk settlements and providing for cooperation in future dealings with mortgage insurers. 
  In addition, pursuant to a separate agreement, we settled substantially all of FNMA s outstanding and future claims for compensatory fees arising out of past foreclosure delays.  
  Collectively, these agreements are the FNMA Settlement. For additional information, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54   and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Independent Foreclosure Review Acceleration Agreement 
  On January 7, 2013, Bank of America and other mortgage servicing institutions entered into an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Reserve to cease the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) that had commenced pursuant to a consent order entered into by Bank of America with the Federal Reserve and by BANA with the OCC on April 13, 2011 (2011 OCC Consent Order) and replace it with an accelerated remediation process (2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement). Under the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement, the mortgage servicing institutions agreed to make aggregate cash payments totaling $3.8 billion and provide $6.0 billion of other assistance to help borrowers, such as loan modifications and forgiveness of deficiency judgments. The 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement requires us to make a cash payment of   $1.1 billion   and provide   $1.8 billion   of borrower assistance in the form of loan modifications and other foreclosure prevention actions. For additional information, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Other Mortgage-related Matters   on page   61  . 
  Sales of Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  On January 6, 2013, Bank of America entered into definitive agreements with two different counterparties, and on February 19, 2013 with an additional counterparty to sell the servicing rights on certain residential mortgage loans serviced for FNMA, Freddie Mac (FHLMC), the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) and private-label securitizations, with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of approximately $317 billion. The sales involve approximately 2.1 million loans currently serviced by us, including approximately 234,000 residential mortgage loans and approximately 24,000 home equity loans that were 60 days or more past due at December 31, 2012.  
  The transfers of servicing rights are scheduled to occur in stages throughout 2013 and are subject to the approval or consent of certain third parties. There is no assurance that all the required approvals and consents will be obtained, and accordingly, some of these transfers may not be consummated. We may conduct additional sales of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) in the future. 

At December 31, 2012, we included a positive   $342 million   in the valuation of our MSRs based on information in the offers we had received on portions of our MSR portfolio. We will recognize as gain on sale any additional increases over the book value of the MSR asset in future periods at the time of the servicing transfers. Our ability to recognize such expected additional increases is subject to the consummation of these servicing transfers and the amount of such benefit will be dependent upon certain factors such as interest rates. 
  Capital and Liquidity Related Matters 
  In the fourth quarter of 2012, we repurchased certain of our debt and trust preferred securities with an aggregate carrying value of $5.2 billion for $5.3 billion in cash resulting in a loss of $110 million upon redemption, partially offset by a related pre-tax net interest income benefit of $57 million. We expect that these liability management actions will result in a pre-tax net interest income benefit of approximately $350 million in 2013. 
  We may conduct additional redemptions, tender offers, exercises and other transactions in the future depending on prevailing market conditions, capital, liquidity and other factors. 
    Performance Overview 
  Net income was   $4.2 billion  , or   $0.25   per diluted share in   2012   compared to   $1.4 billion  , or   $0.01   per diluted share in   2011  . 
  Net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis   decreased     $4.0 billion   to   $41.6 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The most significant driver of the   decline   was lower consumer loan balances and yields partially offset by ongoing reductions in long-term debt. 
  Noninterest income   decreased     $6.2 billion   to   $42.7 billion  . The most significant drivers of the decline included a decrease of   $5.3 billion   in equity investment income, negative fair value adjustments of   $5.1 billion   on structured liabilities in   2012   compared to positive fair value adjustments of   $3.3 billion   in   2011   and debit valuation adjustment (DVA) losses on derivatives of   $2.5 billion  , net of hedges, compared to DVA gains on derivatives of   $1.0 billion  , net of hedges, in   2012   and   2011  , respectively. These declines were partially offset by significantly lower representations and warranties provision of   $3.9 billion   in   2012   compared to   $15.6 billion   in   2011  . 
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $5.2 billion   in   2012   to   $8.2 billion  . The decline was primarily in the home loans portfolio due to improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices. 
  Noninterest expense   decreased     $8.2 billion   to   $72.1 billion  . The most significant drivers of the decline were the absence of goodwill impairment charges in   2012   compared to   $3.2 billion   in   2011  , and declines of $1.4 billion and   $1.3 billion   in litigation and personnel expenses, respectively. These declines were partially offset by a provision of $1.1 billion in   2012   related to the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement.  
  Included in the income tax benefit for 2012 was a   $1.7 billion   tax benefit related to the recognition of certain foreign tax credits. 
  For summary information on the Corporation s results, see   Executive Summary   Financial Highlights   below and   Business Segment Results   on page   32  . 

(1)   
    FTE basis is a non-GAAP financial measure. For additional information on this measure, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  , and for a corresponding reconciliation to a GAAP financial measure, see Statistical Table XV. 
       Financial Highlights 
  Net Interest Income 
  Net interest income on a FTE basis   decreased     $4.0 billion   to   $41.6 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The   decline   was primarily due to lower consumer loan balances and yields, the asset and liability management (ALM) portfolio recouponing to a lower yield and decreased commercial loan yields. Lower trading-related net interest income also negatively impacted   2012   results. These were partially offset by ongoing reductions in long-term debt and lower rates paid on deposits. The net interest yield on a FTE basis   decreased     13   basis points (bps) to   2.35 percent   for   2012   compared to   2011   as the yield continued to be under pressure due to the aforementioned items and the low rate environment. 
  Noninterest Income 

Noninterest income   decreased     $6.2 billion   to   $42.7 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The following highlights the significant changes. 
             
    Card income   decreased     $1.1 billion   primarily driven by the implementation of interchange fee rules under the Durbin Amendment, which became effective on October 1, 2011. 
                
    Service charges   decreased     $494 million   primarily due to the impact of lower accretion on acquired portfolios and reduced reimbursed merchant processing fees. 
                
    Investment and brokerage services income   decreased     $433 million   primarily driven by lower transactional volumes. 
                
    Equity investment income   decreased     $5.3 billion  . The results for   2012   included $1.6 billion of gains which primarily related to the sales of certain equity and strategic investments. The results for   2011   included   $6.5 billion   of gains on the sale of China Construction Bank (CCB) shares,   $836 million   of CCB dividends and a   $377 million   gain on the sale of our investment in BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock), partially offset by   $1.1 billion   of impairment charges on our merchant services joint venture.  
                 
    Mortgage banking income   increased     $13.6 billion   primarily due to an   $11.7 billion     decrease   in the representations and warranties provision. The   2012   results included   $2.5 billion   in provision related to the FNMA Settlement, a   $500 million   provision for obligations to FNMA related to mortgage insurance rescissions, partially offset by an   increase   in servicing income of   $1.1 billion   due to improved MSR results. The   2011   results included   $15.6 billion   in representations and warranties provision related to the agreement to resolve nearly all legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-government-sponsored enterprise (GSE) residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) repurchase exposures and other non-GSE exposures. 
                
    Insurance income   decreased     $1.5 billion   driven by the impact of the sale of the Balboa Insurance Company s lender-placed insurance business (Balboa) in 2011 and an increase to the provision related to payment protection insurance in the U.K. in   2012  . 
                
    Other income   decreased     $8.7 billion   due to negative fair value adjustments on our structured liabilities of   $5.1 billion   compared to positive fair value adjustments of   $3.3 billion   in   2011  . In addition,   2012   included   $1.6 billion   of gains related to debt repurchases and exchanges of trust preferred securities compared to gains of $1.2 billion in the prior year. The prior year also included a net gain of $752 million on the sale of Balboa. 
     Provision for Credit Losses 
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $5.2 billion   to   $8.2 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The provision for credit losses was   $6.7 billion   lower than net charge-offs for   2012  , resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses driven by improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in consumer real estate products, lower bankruptcy filings and delinquencies affecting the Card Services portfolio, and improvement in overall credit quality within the core commercial portfolio (total commercial products excluding U.S. small business). Absent unexpected deterioration in the economy, we expect reductions in the allowance for credit losses, excluding the valuation allowance  

for purchase credit-impaired (PCI) loans, to continue in the near term, though at a slower pace than in   2012  . For more information on the provision for credit losses, see   Provision for Credit Losses   on page   109  . 
  Net charge-offs totaled   $14.9 billion  , or   1.67 percent   of average loans and leases for   2012   compared to   $20.8 billion  , or   2.24 percent   for   2011  . Included in   2012   net charge-offs was   $596 million   related to the impact of new regulatory guidance regarding the treatment of loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and   $435 million   related to loans forgiven as a part of the National Mortgage Settlement. The   decrease   in net charge-offs was primarily driven by fewer delinquent loans and lower bankruptcy filings in the Card Services portfolio, as well as lower net charge-offs in the consumer real estate and core commercial portfolios in   2012  . 
  Noninterest Expense 

Noninterest expense   decreased     $8.2 billion   to   $72.1 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011   with the decrease primarily driven by the absence of goodwill impairment charges in   2012   compared to $3.2 billion in   2011  , a   $2.8 billion     decrease   in other general operating expense primarily related to lower litigation expense and mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays, partially offset by a provision of $1.1 billion in   2012   related to the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement. Personnel expense   decreased     $1.3 billion   in   2012   as we continued to streamline processes and achieve cost savings. Partially offsetting the decreases were increases in professional fees and data processing expenses due to continuing default management activities in Legacy Assets   Servicing. The prior year also included   $638 million   in merger and restructuring charges. 
  In connection with Project New BAC, we expect to continue to achieve cost savings in certain noninterest expense categories as we continue to further streamline workflows, simplify processes and align expenses with our overall strategic plan and operating principles. During 2012, we continued implementation of Phase 1 initiatives, completed Phase 2 evaluations and began implementation of certain Phase 2 initiatives. With regard to Phase 1, we expect to realize more than $5 billion of annualized cost savings by the fourth quarter of 2013 with the full impact expected to be realized in 2014. We expect that Phase 2 will result in an additional $3 billion of annualized cost savings by mid-2015. 

Income Tax Benefit 
  The income tax   benefit   was   $1.1 billion   on pre-tax income of   $3.1 billion   for   2012   compared to an income tax   benefit   of   $1.7 billion   on the pre-tax loss of   $230 million   for   2011  .  
  Included in the income tax benefit for   2012   was a   $1.7 billion   tax benefit attributable to the excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability. Also included in the income tax benefit was a $788 million charge to reduce the carrying value of certain U.K. deferred tax assets due to the two percent U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction enacted in 2012. Our effective tax rate for 2012 excluding these two items was a benefit of seven percent and differed from the statutory rate due to the impact of our recurring tax preference items (e.g., affordable housing credits and tax-exempt income) on the level of pre-tax earnings. 
  The income tax benefit for   2011   was driven by our recurring tax preference items, a $1.0 billion benefit from the release of the remaining valuation allowance applicable to the Merrill Lynch    

Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch) capital loss carryover deferred tax asset and a benefit of $823 million for planned realization of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets related to the tax basis in certain subsidiaries. These benefits were partially offset by a $782 million charge for the two percent U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction enacted in 2011. The $3.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges recorded during 2011 were non-deductible.  
  On July 17, 2012, the U.K. 2012 Finance Bill was enacted, which reduced the U.K. corporate income tax rate by two percent to 23 percent. The first one percent reduction was effective April 1, 2012 and the second will be effective April 1, 2013. These reductions favorably affect income tax expense on future U.K. earnings, but also required us to remeasure our U.K. net deferred tax assets using the lower tax rates. If the corporate income tax rate were to be reduced to 21 percent by 2014 as suggested in U.K. Treasury announcements and assuming no change in the deferred tax asset balance, we would record a charge to income tax expense of approximately $800 million in the period of enactment, which we expect to be in 2013. 

Balance Sheet Overview 

At   December 31, 2012  , total assets were   $2.2 trillion  , an   increase   of   $80.9 billion  , or   four percent  , from   December 31, 2011  . Average total assets   decreased     $105.0 billion  , or   five percent  , in   2012   compared to   2011  . At   December 31, 2012  , total liabilities were   $2.0 trillion  , an   increase   of   $74.1 billion  , or   four percent  , from   December 31, 2011  . Average total liabilities   decreased     $111.5 billion  , or   five percent  , in   2012   compared to   2011  . 
  Year-end balance sheet amounts may vary from average balance sheet amounts due to liquidity and balance sheet management activities, primarily involving our portfolios of highly  

liquid assets, that are designed to ensure the adequacy of capital while enhancing our ability to manage liquidity requirements for the Corporation and for our customers, and to position the balance sheet in accordance with the Corporation s risk appetite. The execution of these activities requires the use of balance sheet and capital-related limits including spot, average and risk-weighted asset limits, particularly within the market-making activities of our trading businesses. One of our key regulatory metrics, Tier 1 leverage ratio, is calculated based on adjusted quarterly average total assets.  

Assets 
  Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell 
  Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities borrowed and securities purchased under agreements to resell are utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral. Year-end federal funds sold and securities borrowed under agreements to resell   increased     $8.7 billion   due to increases in client short positions and increased collateral requirements. Average federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell   decreased     $9.0 billion   attributable to changes in the investment composition of excess liquidity. 
  Trading Account Assets 
  Trading account assets consist primarily of fixed-income securities including government and corporate debt, and equity and convertible instruments. Year-end trading account assets   increased     $67.9 billion   primarily due to a strategic decision to increase U.S. Treasuries and agency securities. 
  Debt Securities 
  Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency securities, MBS, principally agency MBS, foreign bonds, corporate bonds and municipal debt. We use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage interest rate and liquidity risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create more economically attractive returns on these investments. Year-end balances of debt securities   increased     $25.0 billion   primarily due to net purchases of agency MBS. For additional information on debt securities, see   Note 4   Securities     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Loans and Leases 
  Year-end and average loans and leases   decreased     $18.4 billion   and   $39.3 billion  . The decreases were primarily due to continued run-off in targeted portfolios partially offset by growth in non-U.S. commercial and U.S. commercial loans. For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio, see   Credit Risk Management   on page   79  . 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
  Year-end and average allowance for loan and lease losses   decreased     $9.6 billion   and   $7.8 billion   primarily due to the impact of the improving economy and reserve reductions in the PCI portfolio mostly related to the National Mortgage Settlement. For a more detailed discussion, see   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   109  . 
  All Other Assets 
  Year-end other assets   decreased     $11.9 billion   driven by lower cash and cash equivalent balances. Average other assets   decreased     $59.9 billion   primarily driven by asset sales, lower derivative dealer assets and a reduction in loans held-for-sale (LHFS). 

Liabilities 
  Deposits 
  Year-end and average deposits   increased     $72.2 billion   and   $12.0 billion  . The increases were attributable to growth in our noninterest-bearing deposits driven by higher client balances. 
  Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase 
  Federal funds transactions involve borrowing reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities loaned and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized borrowing transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads and finance assets on the balance sheet. Year-end and average federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase   increased     $78.4 billion   and   $9.5 billion   primarily due to funding of trading inventory resulting from customer demand. 
  Trading Account Liabilities 
  Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in fixed-income securities including government and corporate debt, equity and convertible instruments. Year-end trading account liabilities   increased     $13.1 billion   primarily due to higher trading activity in equity securities. Average trading account liabilities   decreased     $6.1 billion   primarily due to a decrease in basis trading on government debt. 
  Commercial Paper and Other Short-term Borrowings 
  Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source. Year-end and average commercial paper and other short-term borrowings   decreased     $5.0 billion   and   $15.4 billion   due to planned reductions in wholesale borrowings. For additional information on Commercial Paper and Other Short-term Borrowings, see   Note 11   Federal Funds Sold, Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Short-term Borrowings     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Long-term Debt 
  Year-end and average long-term debt   decreased     $96.7 billion   and   $104.8 billion  . The   decreases   were attributable to planned reductions in long-term debt. For additional information on long-term debt, see   Note 12   Long-term Debt     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  All Other Liabilities 
  Year-end all other liabilities   increased     $12.0 billion   primarily driven by an increase in customer margin credits. Average all other liabilities   decreased     $6.7 billion   primarily driven by decreases in bank acceptances outstanding and accrued interest payable. 
  Shareholders  Equity 
  Year-end and average shareholders  equity   increased     $6.9 billion   and   $6.6 billion  . The increases were primarily driven by earnings, an increase in unrealized gains on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities in other comprehensive income (OCI), and common stock issued under employee plans and in connection with exchanges of preferred stock and trust preferred securities. 

Cash Flows Overview 
  The Corporation s operating assets and liabilities support our global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows from operations, available cash balances and our ability to generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities primarily include the AFS securities portfolio and other short-term investments. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related to increased customer deposits and net long-term debt reductions. 
  Cash and cash equivalents   decreased     $9.4 billion   during   2012   due to net purchases of debt securities and planned reductions in long-term debt partially offset by higher federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase and growth in our deposits. Cash and cash equivalents   increased     $11.7 billion   during   2011   due to sales of non-core assets and net sales of debt securities partially offset by repayment and maturities of certain long-term debt. 
  During   2012  , net cash used in operating activities was   $13.9 billion  . The more significant adjustments to net income to arrive at cash used in operating activities included the net increase in  

trading and derivative instruments and the provision for credit losses. During   2011  , net cash provided by operating activities was   $64.4 billion  . The more significant adjustments to net income to arrive at cash provided by operating activities included the net decrease in trading and derivative instruments and the provision for credit losses. 
  During   2012  , net cash used in investing activities was   $37.2 billion   primarily driven by net purchases of debt securities. During   2011  , net cash provided by investing activities was   $52.4 billion   primarily driven by net sales of debt securities. 
  During   2012  , net cash provided by financing activities of   $42.4 billion   primarily reflected an increase in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase and growth in deposits partially offset by planned reductions in long-term debt as maturities outpaced new issuances. During   2011  , the net cash used in financing activities of   $104.7 billion   primarily reflected planned reductions in long-term debt as maturities outpaced new issuances as well as the decrease in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase partially offset by growth in deposits. 

Business Segment Results 
  The following discussion provides an overview of the results of our business segments and   All Other   for   2012   compared to   2011  . For additional information on these results, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   37  . 

(1)   
    Total revenue is net of interest expense and is on a FTE basis which for consolidated revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information on this measure, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  , and for a corresponding reconciliation to a GAAP financial measure, see Statistical Table XVI. 
       CBB   net income   decreased   compared to the prior year. Revenue   decreased   driven by lower average loan balances, the continued low rate environment, the full-year impact of the Durbin Amendment, lower gains on sales of portfolios and the impact of charges related to our consumer protection products. The provision for credit losses   increased   as portfolio trends stabilized during 2012. Noninterest expense   declined   due to lower Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in litigation expense. 
  CRES     net loss     decreased   compared to the prior year. Revenue   increased   due to a significantly lower representations and warranties provision, an increase in servicing income and core production income, partially offset by a   decrease   in insurance income. The provision for credit losses decreased due to improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in both the non-PCI and PCI home equity loan portfolios. Noninterest expense   decreased   due to a decline in litigation expense, the absence of a goodwill impairment charge and lower mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays, partially offset by higher default-related servicing costs and a provision for the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement. 
  Global Banking   net income   decreased   compared to the prior year. Revenue   decreased   primarily driven by   lower   investment banking fees, lower net interest income as a result of spread compression and the benefit in the prior year from higher accretion on acquired portfolios, partially offset by the impact of higher average loan and deposit balances and gains from certain legacy portfolios. The provision for credit losses increased as a result of stabilization of asset quality, core commercial loan growth and the impact of a higher volume of loan resolutions in the commercial real estate portfolio in the prior year. Noninterest expense  

decreased   primarily due to lower personnel and operating expenses. 
  Global Markets   net income   increased   compared to the prior year. Sales and trading revenue   decreased   due to net DVA losses compared to net DVA gains in the prior year. Excluding net DVA, sales and trading revenue   increased   primarily driven by our fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC) business as a result of improved performance in our rates and currencies, and credit-related businesses due to an improved global economic climate, and a gain on the sale of an equity investment. Noninterest expense   decreased   largely due to a reduction in personnel-related expenses. 
  GWIM   net income   increased   compared to the prior year. Revenue was relatively unchanged as higher asset management fees were offset by lower transactional revenue and lower net interest income driven by the impact of the continued low rate environment. The provision for credit losses   decreased   driven by lower delinquencies and improving portfolio trends within the residential mortgage portfolio. Noninterest expense   decreased   due to lower FDIC expense, lower litigation costs and other expense reductions, partially offset by higher production-related expenses. 
  All Other   decreased   to a net loss compared to net income in the prior year. The change was primarily due to negative fair value adjustments on structured liabilities compared to positive fair value adjustments in the prior year, a decrease in equity investment income and lower gains on sales of debt securities. Partially offsetting these items were a reduction in the provision for credit losses, net gains resulting from the repurchase of certain debt and trust preferred securities and a net income tax benefit related to the recognition of certain foreign tax credits. 

(1)   
    Excludes merger and restructuring charges and goodwill impairment charges. 
               (2)   
    Due to a net loss applicable to common shareholders for 2010 and 2009, the impact of antidilutive equity instruments was excluded from diluted earnings (loss) per share and average diluted common shares. 
               (3)   
    Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For additional information on these ratios and corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35   and Statistical Table XV on page   145  . 
               (4)   
    For more information on the impact of the PCI loan portfolio on asset quality, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  .  
               (5)   
    Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
               (6)   
    Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see   Nonperforming Consumer Loans and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   93   and corresponding   Table 37  , and   Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   101   and corresponding   Table 46  . 
               (7)   
    Amounts included in allowance that are excluded from nonperforming loans primarily include amounts allocated to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   CBB  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (8)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
      n/m = not meaningful 

For footnotes see page   33  . 

Supplemental Financial Data 
  We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses on a FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis, are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe managing the business with net interest income on a FTE basis provides a more accurate picture of the interest margin for comparative purposes. To derive the FTE basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we use the federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent. This measure ensures comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. 
  Certain performance measures including the efficiency ratio and net interest yield utilize net interest income (and thus total revenue) on a FTE basis. The efficiency ratio measures the costs expended to generate a dollar of revenue, and net interest yield measures the bps we earn over the cost of funds.  
  We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that utilize tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible equity represents an adjusted shareholders  equity or common shareholders  equity amount which has been reduced by goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. These measures are used to evaluate our use of equity. In addition, profitability, relationship and investment models all use return on average tangible shareholders  equity (ROTE) as key measures to support our overall growth goals. These ratios are as follows: 
             
    Return on average tangible common shareholders  equity measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted common shareholders  equity. The tangible common equity ratio represents adjusted common shareholders  equity divided by total assets less goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities.  
                
    ROTE measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted average total shareholders  equity. The tangible equity ratio represents adjusted total shareholders  equity divided by  

total assets less goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. 
             
    Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted ending common shareholders  equity divided by ending common shares outstanding. 
     The aforementioned supplemental data and performance measures are presented in Table   7   and Statistical Table XII. In addition, in Table   8   and Statistical Table XIV, we have excluded the impact of goodwill impairment charges of   $3.2 billion   and   $12.4 billion   recorded in   2011   and   2010   when presenting certain of these metrics. Accordingly, these are non-GAAP financial measures.  
  In addition, we evaluate our business segment results based on measures that utilize return on average economic capital, a non-GAAP financial measure, including the following:  
             
    Return on average economic capital for the segments is calculated as net income, adjusted for cost of funds and earnings credits and certain expenses related to intangibles, divided by average economic capital.  
                
    Economic capital represents allocated equity less goodwill and a percentage of intangible assets (excluding MSRs).  
     In 2009, Common Equivalent Securities (CES) were reflected in our reconciliations given the expectation that the underlying Common Equivalent Junior Preferred Stock, Series S would convert into common stock following shareholder approval of additional authorized shares. Shareholders approved the increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock and the Common Equivalent Stock converted into common stock on February 24, 2010.  
  Statistical Tables XV, XVI and XVII on pages   145  ,   146   and   148   provide reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures with GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation and our segments. Other companies may define or calculate these measures and ratios differently. 

Net Interest Income Excluding Trading-related Net Interest Income 
  We manage net interest income on a FTE basis and excluding the impact of trading-related activities. As discussed in   Global Markets   on page   48  , we evaluate our sales and trading results and strategies on a total market-based revenue approach by combining net interest income and noninterest income for   Global Markets  .   An analysis of net interest income, average earning assets and net interest yield on earning assets, all of which adjust for the impact of trading-related net interest income from reported net interest income on a FTE basis, is shown below. We believe the use of this non-GAAP presentation in   Table 9   provides additional clarity in assessing our results. 

(1)   
    For 2012 and 2011, net interest income and net interest yield include fees earned on overnight deposits placed with the Federal Reserve and, for   2012  , fees earned on deposits, primarily overnight, placed with certain non-U.S. central banks, of   $189 million   and   $186 million  . 
               (2)   
    Represents the impact of trading-related amounts included in   Global Markets  . 
               (3)   
    Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. 

Net interest income excluding trading-related net interest income   decreased     $3.6 billion   to   $38.2 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The   decline   was primarily due to lower consumer loan balances and yields, the ALM portfolio recouponing to a lower yield and decreased commercial loan yields, partially offset by ongoing reductions in long-term debt and lower interest rates paid on deposits.  
  Average earning assets excluding trading-related earning assets   decreased     $68.8 billion   to   $1,320.3 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The   decrease   was primarily due to declines in consumer loans, securities purchased under agreement to resell, time deposits placed and LHFS, partially offset by an increase in commercial loans.  
  Net interest yield on earning assets excluding trading-related activities   decreased     12   bps to   2.90 percent   for   2012   compared to   2011   primarily due to the factors noted above for net interest income. The yield curve flattened significantly in   2012   with long-term rates near historical lows. This has resulted in net interest yield compression as assets have repriced down and liability yields have declined less significantly due to the absolute low level of short-end rates. 

Business Segment Operations 
  Segment Description and Basis of Presentation 
  We report the results of our operations through five business segments:   CBB, CRES, Global Banking, Global Markets   and   GWIM  , with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  .  
  We prepare and evaluate segment results using certain non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 
  The management accounting and reporting process derives segment and business results by utilizing allocation methodologies for revenue and expense. The net income derived for the businesses is dependent upon revenue and cost allocations using an activity-based costing model, funds transfer pricing, and other methodologies and assumptions management believes are appropriate to reflect the results of the business. 
  Total revenue, net of interest expense, includes net interest income on a FTE basis and noninterest income. The adjustment of net interest income to a FTE basis results in a corresponding increase in income tax expense. The segment results also reflect certain revenue and expense methodologies that are utilized to determine net income. The net interest income of the businesses includes the results of a funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. For presentation purposes, in segments where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, we allocate assets to match liabilities. Net interest income of the business segments also includes an allocation of net interest income generated by certain of our ALM activities. 
  Our ALM activities include an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of various derivatives and cash instruments to manage fluctuations in earnings and capital that are caused by interest rate volatility. Our  

goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. The majority of our ALM activities are allocated to the business segments and fluctuate based on performance. ALM activities include external product pricing decisions including deposit pricing strategies, the effects of our internal funds transfer pricing process and the net effects of other ALM activities. 
  Certain expenses not directly attributable to a specific business segment are allocated to the segments. The most significant of these expenses include data and item processing costs and certain centralized or shared functions. Data processing costs are allocated to the segments based on equipment usage. Item processing costs are allocated to the segments based on the volume of items processed for each segment. The costs of certain other centralized or shared functions are allocated based on methodologies that reflect utilization. 
  We allocate economic capital to the business segments and related businesses using a risk-adjusted methodology incorporating each segment s credit, market, interest rate, strategic and operational risk components. See   Managing Risk   on page   66   and   Strategic Risk Management   on page   70   for more information on the nature of these risks. A business segment s allocated equity includes this economic capital allocation and also includes the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the business segment. We benefit from the diversification of risk across these components which is reflected as a reduction to allocated equity for each segment. The risk-adjusted methodology is periodically refined and such refinements are reflected as changes to allocated equity in each segment. 
  For more information on the business segments and reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net income (loss) and year-end total assets, see   Note 26   Business Segment Information     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Consumer   Business Banking 

(1)   
    For presentation purposes, in segments and businesses where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, we allocate assets to match liabilities. As a result, total earning assets and total assets of the businesses may not equal total   CBB  . 
     n/m = not meaningful 
    CBB,   which is comprised of Deposits, Card Services and Business Banking, offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and businesses. Our customers and clients have access to a franchise network that stretches coast to coast through 32 states and the District of Columbia. The franchise network includes approximately   5,500   banking centers,   16,300   ATMs, nationwide call centers, and online and mobile platforms.  
  The Federal Reserve adopted a final rule with respect to the Durbin Amendment, which became effective October 1, 2011, that established the maximum allowable interchange fees a bank can receive for a debit card transaction. The interchange fee rules resulted in a reduction of debit card revenue of approximately $1.7 billion in 2012 compared to a $430 million reduction in 2011. For more information on the Durbin Amendment and the final interchange rules, see   Regulatory Matters   on page   64  . 

CBB   Results 
  Net income for   CBB     decreased     $2.1 billion   to   $5.3 billion   in   2012 compared to 2011   primarily due to   lower   revenue and higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Net interest income   decreased     $2.3 billion   to   $19.1 billion   due to lower average loan balances primarily in Card Services as well as compressed deposit spreads due to the continued low rate environment. Noninterest income   decreased     $1.6 billion   to   $9.9 billion   primarily due to a decline in Card Services. The provision for credit losses   increased     $451 million   to   $3.9 billion   with the increase largely in Card Services. Noninterest expense   decreased     $926 million   to   $16.8 billion   primarily due to lower FDIC and operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in litigation expense. 
  The return on average economic capital   decreased   primarily due to lower net income. For more information regarding economic capital, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 

Deposits 
  Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities which consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts, as well as investment accounts and products. Deposit products provide a relatively stable source of funding and liquidity for the Corporation. We earn net interest spread revenue from investing this liquidity in earning assets through client-facing lending and ALM activities. The revenue is allocated to the deposit products using our funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. 
  Deposits also generates fees such as account service fees, non-sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as investment and brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts. Merrill Edge is an integrated investing and banking service targeted at clients with less than $250,000 in investable assets. Merrill Edge provides investment advice and guidance, brokerage services, a self-directed online investing platform and key banking capabilities including access to the Corporation s network of banking centers and ATMs. Deposits includes the net impact of migrating customers and their related deposit balances between Deposits and   GWIM   as well as other client-managed businesses. For more information on the migration of customer balances to or from   GWIM  , see   GWIM   on page   50  . 
  Net income for Deposits   decreased     $300 million   to   $917 million   in   2012   primarily driven by lower net interest income, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Net interest income   declined     $615 million   to   $7.9 billion   driven by compressed deposit spreads due to the continued low rate environment, partially offset by growth in deposit balances, a customer shift to higher spread liquid products and continued pricing discipline. Noninterest income of   $4.2 billion   remained relatively unchanged. Noninterest expense   decreased     $191 million   to   $10.4 billion   as lower FDIC expense was partially offset by higher operating and litigation expenses. 
  Average deposits   increased     $13.2 billion   to   $434.3 billion   in   2012   driven by a customer shift to more liquid products in a low rate environment as checking, traditional savings and money market savings grew $23.9 billion. Growth in liquid products was partially offset by a decline in average time deposits of $10.7 billion. As a result of the shift in the mix of deposits and our continued pricing discipline, the rate paid on average deposits declined by seven bps to 20 bps. 

(1)    
    Total deposit spreads include the Deposits and Business Banking businesses. 

Mobile banking customers   increased     2.8 million   in   2012   reflecting a change in our customers  banking preferences. The number of banking centers   declined     224   and ATMs   declined     1,409   as we continue to improve our cost-to-serve and optimize our consumer banking network. 
  Card Services 
  Card Services is one of the leading issuers of credit and debit cards to consumers and small businesses in the U.S. In addition to earning net interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Card Services generates interchange revenue from credit and debit card transactions as well as annual credit card fees and other miscellaneous fees. 
  Net income for Card Services   decreased     $1.8 billion   to   $4.1 billion   in   2012   primarily driven by a   decrease   in revenue and an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Net interest income   decreased     $1.5 billion   to   $10.0 billion   driven by lower average loan balances and yields. The net interest yield   decreased     11   bps to   8.93 percent   due to charge-offs and paydowns of higher interest rate products. Noninterest income   decreased     $1.4 billion   to   $5.2 billion   primarily due to lower interchange fees as a result of implementing the Durbin Amendment, lower gains on sales of portfolios and the impact of charges related to our consumer protection products. 
  The provision for credit losses   increased     $380 million   to   $3.5 billion   in   2012   as portfolio trends stabilized during 2012. For more information, see   Provision for Credit Losses   on page   109  . Noninterest expense   decreased     $465 million   to   $5.5 billion   primarily due to lower personnel and operating expenses. 
  Average loans   decreased     $14.4 billion   to   $111.6 billion   in   2012   driven by the impact of portfolio sales, charge-offs and continued run-off of non-core portfolios. 

During   2012  , the U.S. credit card risk-adjusted margin   increased     173   bps due to a decrease in net charge-offs driven by an improvement in credit quality. U.S. credit card new accounts   grew   by approximately   223,000   accounts to   3.3 million  . During   2012  , U.S. credit card purchase volumes   increased     $1.1 billion   to   $193.5 billion   reflecting higher levels of consumer spending, partially offset by the impact of portfolio sales. Debit card purchase volumes   increased     $7.8 billion   to   $258.4 billion   reflecting higher levels of consumer spending. 

Business Banking 
  Business Banking provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions to clients through our network of offices and client relationship teams along with various product partners. Our clients include U.S.-based companies generally with annual sales of $1 million to $50 million. Our lending products and services include commercial loans, lines of credit and real estate lending. Our capital management and treasury solutions include treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options. Business Banking also includes the results of our merchant services joint venture. 
  Net income for Business Banking   decreased     $76 million   to   $343 million   in   2012   primarily driven by lower revenue and an increase in the provision for credit losses, largely offset by lower  

noninterest expense. Net interest income   decreased     $183 million   to   $1.2 billion   driven by lower average loan balances. Noninterest income   decreased     $172 million   to   $492 million   primarily due to the transfer of certain processing activities to our merchant services joint venture in 2012. The provision for credit losses   increased     $36 million   to   $281 million   primarily driven by a slower pace of improvement in credit quality than in the prior year. Noninterest expense   decreased     $270 million   to   $888 million   driven by lower FDIC and merchant processing expenses. 
  Average loans   decreased     $3.1 billion   to   $23.8 billion   in   2012   primarily driven by the net transfer of certain loans to other businesses, higher prepayments and continued run-off of non-core portfolios. Average deposits   increased     $2.2 billion   to   $42.8 billion   in   2012   due to the current client preference for liquidity and the net transfer of certain deposits from other businesses. 

Consumer Real Estate Services 

n/m = not meaningful 
  n/a = not applicable 
    CRES   operations include Home Loans and Legacy Assets   Servicing. Home Loans is responsible for ongoing loan production activities and the   CRES   home equity loan portfolio not selected for inclusion in the Legacy Assets   Servicing owned portfolio. Legacy Assets   Servicing is responsible for all of our mortgage servicing activities related to loans serviced for others and loans held by the Corporation, including loans that have been designated as the Legacy Assets   Servicing Portfolios. The Legacy Assets   Servicing Portfolios (both owned and serviced), herein referred to as the Legacy Owned and Legacy Serviced Portfolios, respectively, (together, the Legacy Portfolios), and as further defined below, include those loans that would not have been originated under our underwriting standards as of December 31, 2010. For additional information on our   Legacy Portfolios  , see page   43  . In addition, Legacy Assets   Servicing is responsible for managing legacy exposures related to   CRES   (e.g., representations and warranties). This alignment allows   CRES   management to lead the ongoing Home Loans business while also providing greater focus on legacy mortgage issues and servicing activities. 
  CRES  , primarily through Home Loans operations, generates revenue by providing an extensive line of consumer real estate products and services to customers nationwide.   CRES   products offered by Home Loans include fixed- and adjustable-rate first-lien mortgage loans for home purchase and refinancing needs, home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) and home equity loans. First  

mortgage products are either sold into the secondary mortgage market to investors, while we generally retain MSRs and the Bank of America customer relationships, or are held on the balance sheet in   All Other   for ALM purposes. Home Loans is compensated for loans held for ALM purposes on a management accounting basis with the corresponding offset in   All Other  . Newly originated HELOCs and home equity loans are retained on the   CRES   balance sheet in Home Loans.  
  CRES   includes the impact of transferring customers and their related loan balances between   GWIM   and   CRES  . For more information on the migration of customer balances, see   GWIM   on page   50  . 
  CRES   Results 
  The   net loss   for   CRES     decreased     $13.0 billion   to   $6.5 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011   primarily driven by mortgage banking income of   $5.5 billion   in   2012   compared to a loss of   $8.2 billion   in   2011  . Also contributing to the decrease in the net loss was   lower   provision for credit losses and a   decline   in noninterest expense, partially offset by lower insurance income and other income. Mortgage banking income   increased     $13.7 billion   due to an   $11.7 billion     decrease   in representations and warranties provision, and higher servicing income and core production revenue. The provision for credit losses   decreased     $3.1 billion   driven by improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in  

both the non-PCI and PCI home equity loan portfolios. Noninterest expense   decrease  d   $4.5 billion   primarily due to a decline in litigation expense, the absence of a goodwill impairment charge in   2012   compared to   $2.6 billion   in   2011  , a decline in production and insurance expenses in Home Loans and a reduction in Legacy Assets   Servicing expenses. 
  Average economic capital   decrease  d   eight percent   primarily due to a reduction in operational risk driven by the sale of Balboa and a reduction in credit risk. For more information regarding economic capital, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 
  Home Loans 
  Home Loans products are available to our customers through our retail network of approximately   5,500   banking centers, mortgage loan officers in 375 locations and a sales force offering our customers direct telephone and online access to our products. These products were also offered through our correspondent lending channel which we exited in the second half of 2011 and the reverse mortgage origination business which we exited in the first half of 2011. These strategic changes were made to allow greater focus on our direct-to-consumer channels, deepen relationships with existing customers and use mortgage products to acquire new relationships. 
  Home Loans also included the Balboa insurance operations through June 30, 2011, when the ongoing insurance business was transferred to   CBB   following the sale of Balboa.  
  Net income for Home Loans   increase  d   $223 million   to   $892 million   primarily driven by a decrease in noninterest expense and lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by a decline in revenue. 
  The   $1.2 billion     decline   in revenue was the result of a decrease of   $744 million   in insurance income as a result of the Balboa sale in 2011 and a   $467 million     decline   in net interest income primarily driven by lower LHFS balances due to our exit from the correspondent lending channel and lower home equity balances. In addition, a net gain of $752 million on the sale of Balboa in 2011 contributed to the decline in revenue. These declines were partially offset by an   increase   of   $972 million   in mortgage banking income as higher retail margins more than offset lower originations.  
  The   $161 million     decline   in the provision for credit losses was driven by improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices. The   $1.4 billion     decline   in noninterest expense was primarily due to lower insurance expense as a result of the sale of Balboa, lower production expense driven by lower retail originations and our exit from the correspondent lending channel. 
  Legacy Assets   Servicing 
  Legacy Assets   Servicing is responsible for all of our servicing activities related to the residential, home equity and discontinued real estate loan portfolios, including owned loans and loans serviced for others (collectively, the mortgage serviced portfolio). A portion of this portfolio has been designated as the Legacy Serviced Portfolio, which represents 39 percent, 42 percent and 49 percent of the total mortgage serviced portfolio, as measured by unpaid principal balance, at   December 31, 2012  , 2011 and 2010, respectively.  
  Legacy Assets   Servicing results reflect the net cost of legacy exposures that are included in the results of   CRES  , including  

representations and warranties provision, litigation costs, financial results of the   CRES   home equity portfolio selected as part of the Legacy Owned Portfolio, the financial results of the servicing operations and the results of MSR activities, including net hedge results. The financial results of the servicing operations reflect certain revenues and expenses on loans serviced for others, including owned loans serviced for Home Loans,   GWIM   and   All Other. 
  Servicing activities include collecting cash for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers, and disbursing customer draws for lines of credit and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors and escrow payments to third parties along with responding to customer inquiries. Our home retention efforts, including single point of contact resources, are also part of our servicing activities, along with supervising foreclosures and property dispositions. In an effort to help our customers avoid foreclosure, Legacy Assets   Servicing evaluates various workout options prior to foreclosure sales which, combined with our temporary halt of foreclosures announced in October 2010, has resulted in elongated default timelines. Although we have resumed foreclosure proceedings in all states, there continues to be significant inventory levels in judicial states. For additional information on our servicing activities, including the impact of foreclosure delays, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Other Mortgage-related Matters   on page   61  . 
  The net loss for Legacy Assets   Servicing decreased   $12.7 billion   to   $7.4 billion   driven by an improvement in mortgage banking income, a   decrease   in noninterest expense and a   decrease   in the provision for credit losses. The   $12.8 billion     increase   in mortgage banking income was primarily due to a   decrease   of   $11.7 billion   in representations and warranties provision. The   2012   representations and warranties provision of   $3.9 billion   included   $2.5 billion   in provision related to the FNMA Settlement and   $500 million   for obligations to FNMA related to mortgage insurance rescissions. The   2011   representations and warranties provision of   $15.6 billion   included   $8.6 billion   in provision and other costs related to the settlement with Bank of New York Mellon (BNY Mellon Settlement) to resolve nearly all of the legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-GSE repurchase exposures, and $7.0 billion in provision related to other non-GSE, and to a lesser extent, GSE exposures. The provision for credit losses decreased   $2.9 billion   due to improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in both the non-PCI and PCI home equity loan portfolios. 
  Noninterest expense   decrease  d   $3.1 billion   primarily due to a   $3.0 billion     decline   in litigation expense, the absence of a goodwill impairment charge in 2012 compared to   $2.6 billion   in 2011, and   $1.0 billion     lower   mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays. These declines were partially offset by an increase of $2.4 billion in default-related servicing expenses and a $1.1 billion provision for the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement. For more information on the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Servicing Matters and Foreclosure Processes   on page   61  . The increase in default-related servicing expenses was due to resources needed to implement new servicing standards mandated for the industry, including as part of the National Mortgage Settlement, other operational changes and costs due to delayed foreclosures. 

Legacy Portfolios 
  The Legacy Portfolios (both owned and serviced) include those loans that would not have been originated under our underwriting standards at December 31, 2010. The Countrywide PCI portfolio as well as certain loans that met a pre-defined delinquency status or probability of default threshold as of January 1, 2011 are also included in the Legacy Portfolios. Since determining the pool of loans to be included in the Legacy Portfolios as of January 1, 2011, the criteria have not changed for these portfolios, but will continue to be evaluated over time.  
  Legacy Owned Portfolio 
  The Legacy Owned Portfolio includes those loans that met the criteria as described above and are on the balance sheet of the Corporation. The home equity loan portfolio is held on the balance sheet of Legacy Assets   Servicing; whereas, the residential mortgage and discontinued real estate loan portfolios are held on the balance sheet of   All Other.   The financial results of the on-balance sheet loans are reported in the segment that owns the loans or in   All Other  . During 2012, the total loans in the Legacy Owned Portfolio   decreased     $23.8 billion   to   $131.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , of which   $48.2 billion   was reflected on the Legacy Assets   Servicing balance sheet and the remainder was held on the balance sheet of   All Other  . The decline was primarily related to paydowns and payoffs, but also reflects forgiveness of loans in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement, and charge-offs recorded on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy under new regulatory guidance implemented during 2012. For more information on the National Mortgage Settlement and the new regulatory guidance, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  . 
  Legacy Serviced Portfolio 
  The Legacy Serviced Portfolio includes the Legacy Owned Portfolio and those loans serviced for outside investors that met the criteria as described above. The following table summarizes the balances of the residential mortgage and discontinued real estate loans included in the Legacy Serviced Portfolio (collectively, the Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio) representing 39 percent, 41 percent and 48 percent of the total residential mortgage serviced portfolio, as measured by unpaid principal balance, of $1.2 trillion, $1.6 trillion and $1.9 trillion at   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. The decline in the Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio was primarily related to servicing transfers, paydowns and payoffs. 

(2)   
    Includes discontinued real estate loans. 

Non-Legacy Portfolio 
  As discussed above, Legacy Assets   Servicing is responsible for all of our servicing activities. The following table summarizes the balances of the residential mortgage and discontinued real estate loans that are not included in the Legacy Serviced Portfolio (the Non-Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio) representing 61 percent, 59 percent and 52 percent of the total residential mortgage serviced portfolio, as measured by unpaid principal balance, at   December 31, 2012  , 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decline in the Non-Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio was primarily related to servicing transfers, paydowns and payoffs. 

(2)   
    Includes discontinued real estate loans. 
     Mortgage Banking Income 
  CRES   mortgage banking income (loss) is categorized into production and servicing income. Core production income is comprised of revenue from the fair value gains and losses recognized on our interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and LHFS, the related secondary market execution, and costs related to representations and warranties in the sales transactions along with other obligations incurred in the sales of mortgage loans. Ongoing costs related to representations and warranties and other obligations that were incurred in the sales of mortgage loans in prior periods are also included in production income. 
  Servicing income includes income earned in connection with servicing activities and MSR valuation adjustments, net of results from risk management activities used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs. The costs associated with our servicing activities are included in noninterest expense. 

The table below summarizes the components of mortgage banking income (loss). 

(1)   
    Represents the change in the market value of the MSR asset due to the impact of customer payments received during the year. 
               (2)   
    Includes gains (losses) on sales of MSRs. 
               (3)   
    Includes the effect of transfers of mortgage loans from   CRES   to the ALM portfolio in   All Other  . 
       
  CRES   first mortgage loan originations   declined     $80.8 billion  , or   58 percent  , primarily as a result of our exit from the correspondent lending channel in 2011.   CRES   retail first mortgage loan originations were   $58.5 billion   in 2012 compared to   $67.8 billion   in   2011  , excluding correspondent lending, reflecting a drop in estimated retail market share as the overall market for mortgages increased. Our decline in market share was primarily due to our decision to price loan products in order to manage our fulfillment capacity. Core production revenue   increase  d   $933 million   to   $3.7 billion   as the impact of our exit from the correspondent lending channel and the decline in retail originations were more than offset by higher retail margins. On an industry-wide basis margins increased as historically low mortgage rates drove strong consumer demand for refinance transactions at a time when most lenders had capacity constraints which, combined with our pricing strategy, contributed to higher retail margins. In addition, a higher proportion of refinance transactions, particularly Home Affordable Refinance Programs (HARP), contributed to higher margins. During   2012  , 84 percent of our first mortgage production volume was for refinance originations and 16 percent was for purchase originations compared to 60 percent and 40 percent in   2011  . 

The representations and warranties provision   decrease  d   $11.7 billion   to   $3.9 billion   as described earlier in this section. 
  Net servicing income   increased     $1.1 billion   to   $5.7 billion   primarily due to   $1.2 billion   in improved MSR results, net of hedges, and   $1.1 billion   in reduced impact of customer payments driven by a lower MSR asset, partially offset by a   $1.3 billion   decrease in servicing fees primarily due to a reduction in the size of the servicing portfolio. For additional information, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  

(1)   
    In addition to loan production in   CRES  , the remaining first mortgage and home equity loan production is primarily in   GWIM. 
               (2)   
    Servicing of residential mortgage loans, HELOCs, home equity loans and discontinued real estate mortgage loans. 
        
  Retail     first mortgage loan originations for the total Corporation were   $75.1 billion   for   2012   compared to   $80.3 billion   for   2011  ,  
  excluding correspondent lending. The decrease was primarily driven by our decision to price loan products in order to manage our fulfillment capacity. 
  Home equity production was   $3.6 billion   for   2012   compared to   $4.4 billion   for   2011   primarily due to our decision to exit the reverse mortgage business. 

Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  At   December 31, 2012  , the consumer MSR balance was   $5.7 billion  , which represented   55   bps of the related unpaid principal balance compared to   $7.4 billion   or   54   bps of the related unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2011  . The consumer MSR balance   decreased     $1.7 billion   during   2012   primarily driven by lower mortgage rates, which resulted in higher forecasted prepayment speeds and the change in the MSR asset value due to customer payments received during the period. During   2012  , the fair value changes of MSRs, net of results from risk management activities used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, were a positive   $1.8 billion   as the positive hedge results more than offset the impact of the market valuation decline on the MSR balance. The hedges outperformed the MSRs due to significant upward price movements in the MBS market in the later part of 2012. For additional information on our servicing activities, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Servicing Matters and Foreclosure Processes   on page   61  . For additional information on MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Sales of Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  On January 6, 2013, Bank of America entered into definitive agreements with two different counterparties, and on February 19, 2013 with an additional counterparty to sell the servicing rights on certain residential mortgage loans serviced for others, with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of approximately $317 billion. The sales involve approximately 2.1 million loans currently serviced by us, including approximately 234,000 residential mortgage loans and approximately 24,000 home equity loans that were 60 days or more past due at   December 31, 2012  . The transfers of servicing rights are scheduled to occur in stages throughout 2013 with the delinquent loans scheduled to be transferred after the current loans. Currently, we recognize approximately   $200 million   in servicing revenues per quarter associated with these loans, which is expected to decrease throughout 2013 as we transfer the servicing rights. Over time we expect the impact on earnings to be negligible as we expect expenses to also decrease after we transfer the servicing rights, especially for loans that are 60 days or more past due. For additional information on servicing sales, see   Recent Events         Sale of Mortgage Servicing Rights on page   26  . 

Global Banking 

Global Banking  , which includes Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking, and Investment Banking, provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions to clients, and underwriting and advisory services through our network of offices and client relationship teams. Our lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending, asset-based lending and direct/indirect consumer loans. Our treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options. We also work with our clients to provide investment banking products such as debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services. Underwriting debt and equity issuances, fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based activities are executed through our global broker/dealer affiliates which are our primary dealers in several countries. Within   Global Banking,   Global Commercial Banking clients generally include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms, auto dealerships, not-for-profit companies, federal and state governments, and municipalities. Global Corporate Banking includes large global corporations, financial institutions and leasing clients. 
  Net income for   Global Banking     decreased     $321 million   to   $5.7 billion   in   2012   compared to   2011   driven by an   increase   in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by   lower   noninterest expense. 

Revenue   decreased     $105 million   in   2012   primarily due to lower investment banking fees,   lower   net interest income as a result of spread compression and the benefit in the prior year from higher accretion on acquired portfolios, partially offset by the impact of   higher   average loan and deposit balances and gains from certain legacy portfolios.  
  The provision for credit losses was a benefit of   $103 million   in   2012   compared to a benefit of   $1.1 billion   in   2011  . The   $1.0 billion   reduction in benefit was primarily as a result of stabilization of asset quality, core commercial loan growth and the impact of a higher volume of loan resolutions in the commercial real estate portfolio in the prior year. 
  Noninterest expense   decreased     $576 million   in   2012   primarily due to lower personnel and operating expenses. 
  Average loans and leases   increased     $7.1 billion   in   2012   primarily driven by growth in U.S. and non-U.S. commercial and industrial loans in large corporate and middle-market segments, specialized industries and trade finance, partially offset by managed reductions in commercial real estate. Average deposits   increased     $12.0 billion   in   2012   as balances continued to grow from client liquidity, growth in international balances and limited alternative investment options. 
  The return on average economic capital   increased   in   2012   as a   decrease   in average economic capital was partially offset by   lower   net income. Average economic capital   decreased   primarily due to a reduction in credit risk driven by decreases in reservable  

criticized balances and NPAs. For more information regarding economic capital, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 
  Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking  
  Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking includes Global Treasury Services and Business Lending activities. Global Treasury Services includes deposits, treasury management, credit card,  

foreign exchange, short-term investment and custody solutions to corporate and commercial banking clients. Business Lending includes various loan-related products and services including commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending, asset-based lending and direct/indirect consumer loans. The table below presents a summary of Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking results. 

Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking revenue   decreased     $255 million   to   $14.0 billion   in   2012   compared to   2011   primarily due to lower revenue in Business Lending that was partially offset by an increase in Global Treasury Services revenue. 
  Global Treasury Services revenue   increased     $122 million   in Global Corporate Banking and   $72 million   in Global Commercial Banking in   2012   as growth in U.S. and non-U.S. deposit balances and higher service charges offset the impact of the low rate environment. 
  Business Lending revenue in Global Corporate Banking remained relatively unchanged in   2012   compared to   2011   as lower net interest income impacted by the low rate environment and lower accretion on acquired portfolios was offset by growth in the loan portfolio and gains on fair value option loans. Business Lending revenue   decreased     $411 million   in Global Commercial Banking as managed reductions of commercial real estate criticized assets, run-off of a liquidating auto loan portfolio and lower accretion on acquired portfolios were partially offset by increases in the commercial and industrial loan portfolio. 
  Average loans and leases in Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking   increased     three percent   in   2012   driven by growth in U.S. and non-U.S. commercial and industrial loans from greater client demand, partially offset by managed reductions of commercial real estate criticized assets and run-off of a liquidating auto loan portfolio. Average deposits in Global Corporate and Global Commercial Banking   increased     five percent   in   2012   compared to   2011   as balances continued to grow due to client liquidity, international growth and limited alternative investment options. 

Investment Banking  
  Client teams and product specialists underwrite and distribute debt, equity and other loan products, and provide advisory services and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between   Global Banking   and   Global Markets   based on the contribution by and involvement of each segment. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the table below presents total Corporation investment banking fees as well as the portion attributable to   Global Banking. 

Total Corporation investment banking fees, excluding self-led deals remained relatively unchanged in   2012   compared to   2011   as higher debt issuance fees partially offset   lower   equity issuance and advisory fees. 

Global Markets 

(1)   
    Trading-related assets include assets which are not considered earning assets (i.e., derivative assets). 
     n/m = not meaningful 
    Global Markets   offers sales and trading services, including research, to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses.   Global Markets   product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets.   Global Markets   provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to our institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities. We also work with our commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of our market-making activities in these products, we may be required to manage risk in government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, commercial paper, MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities (ABS). In addition, the economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between   Global Markets   and   Global Banking   based on the activities performed by each segment.   Global Banking   originates certain deal-related transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by   Global Markets  . For additional information on investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page   47  .  

Net income for   Global Markets     increased     $66 million   to   $1.1 billion   in   2012 compared to 2011  . In   2012  , net DVA losses were   $2.4 billion   compared to net DVA gains of   $1.0 billion   in   2011  . Excluding net DVA, net income   increased     $2.2 billion   to   $2.6 billion   primarily driven by higher sales and trading revenue. Noninterest expense   decreased     $1.4 billion   to   $10.8 billion   due to a reduction in personnel-related expenses, brokerage, clearing and exchange fees, and other operating expenses. The income tax expense in   2012   included a   $781 million   charge for remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets due to decreases in the U.K. corporate tax rate compared to a similar charge of   $774 million   in   2011  .  
  Year-end assets   increased     $113.4 billion   in   2012   to   $615.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   largely driven by increased client-facing activity in the equity business as well as increases in trading-related assets and securities borrowed transactions. 
  Average economic capital   decreased   due to a decline in the risk composition of trading-related balances. The return on average economic capital   increased   primarily due to higher net income and a decline in average economic capital. For more information regarding economic capital, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 

Sales and Trading Revenue 
  Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains and losses on trading and other assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. The table below and related discussion present total sales and trading revenue, substantially all of which is in   Global Markets   with the remainder in   Global Banking  . Sales and trading revenue is segregated into fixed income (government debt obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt obligations, commercial mortgage-backed securities, RMBS and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs)), currencies (interest rate and foreign exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards, swaps and options) and equity income from equity-linked derivatives and cash equity activity.  

(1)   
    Includes FTE adjustments of   $219 million   and   $204 million   for   2012   and   2011  . For additional information on sales and trading revenue, see   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

FICC revenue, including net DVA, remained relatively unchanged in   2012 compared to 2011  . Excluding net DVA, FICC revenue   increased     $2.9 billion   to   $11.0 billion   driven by our rates and currencies business as a result of stronger client flows and improved positioning, a gain on the sale of an equity investment, an improved global economic climate resulting in tightening of spreads in credit markets as well as higher trading volume reflecting an increase in investor confidence. This was partially offset by our exit from the stand-alone proprietary trading business in June 2011. Equities revenue, including net DVA,   decreased     $943 million   to   $3.0 billion  . Excluding net DVA, equities revenue   decreased     $483 million   to   $3.3 billion   as equity market volumes remained at low levels impacting commissions. Sales and trading revenue included total commissions and brokerage fee revenue of   $1.8 billion   in   2012   compared to   $2.2 billion   in   2011  , substantially all from equities in both years. The   $429 million     decrease   in commissions and brokerage fee revenue was primarily due to lower equity market volumes. 

Global Wealth   Investment Management   

    GWIM   consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management (MLGWM) and     U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management (U.S. Trust). 
  MLGWM s advisory business provides a high-touch client experience through a network of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets. MLGWM provides tailored solutions to meet our clients  needs through a full set of brokerage, banking and retirement products. 
  U.S. Trust, together with MLGWM s Private Banking   Investments Group, provides comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to wealthy and ultra-wealthy clients with investable assets of more than $5 million, as well as customized solutions to meet clients  wealth structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs, including specialty asset management services. 
  In 2012, the Corporation entered into an agreement to sell the   GWIM   International Wealth Management (IWM) businesses based outside of the U.S., subject to regulatory approval in multiple jurisdictions, and the first of a series of closings occurred in February 2013. Also, in late 2012, the Corporation sold its investment in a Japanese brokerage joint venture which resulted in a gain of approximately $370 million. The IWM businesses and the Japanese brokerage joint venture had combined client balances of approximately $115 billion. These transactions will not have a significant impact on the Corporation s balance sheet,  

results of operations or capital ratios. As a result of these actions, the results of these businesses were moved to   All Other   and the prior periods have been reclassified. 
  Net income   increased     $505 million   to   $2.2 billion   in   2012 compared to 2011   driven by   lower   noninterest expense and   lower   provision for credit losses. Revenue was relatively unchanged as higher asset management fees due to long-term assets under management (AUM) flows and higher market levels were offset by lower transactional revenue and lower net interest income driven by the impact of the continued low rate environment. The provision for credit losses   decreased     $132 million   to   $266 million   driven by lower delinquencies and improving portfolio trends within the residential mortgage portfolio. Noninterest expense   decreased     $628 million   to   $12.8 billion   due to lower FDIC expense, lower litigation costs and other expense reductions, partially offset by higher production-related expenses.  
  In   2012  , revenue from MLGWM was   $13.8 billion  ,   up     one percent  , due to higher noninterest income. Revenue from U.S. Trust was   $2.6 billion  ,   down     four percent  , driven by lower net interest income.  
  The return on average economic capital   increased   as   higher   net income offset the   increase   in average economic capital. Average economic capital was   higher   primarily due to loan growth. For more information regarding economic capital, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 

Migration Summary 
  GWIM   results are impacted by the migration of clients and their related deposit and loan balances to or from   CBB  ,   CRES   and the ALM portfolio, as presented in the table below. Migration in   2011   included the movement of balances to Merrill Edge, which is included in   CBB  . Subsequent to the date of the migration, the associated net interest income, noninterest income and noninterest expense are recorded in the business to which the clients migrated. 

Client Balances 
  The table below presents client balances which consist of AUM, brokerage assets, assets in custody, deposits, and loans and leases. 

(1)   
    Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
       
  The   increase   of   $136.2 billion  , or   seven percent  , in client balances was primarily driven by higher market levels and inflows into long-term AUM, as well as increases in deposits and loans. 

All Other 

(2)   
    Represents the economic capital assigned to   All Other   as well as the remaining portion of equity not specifically allocated to the business segments. Allocated equity increased due to the disposition of certain assets, as previously disclosed.  
     n/m = not meaningful 
    All Other   consists of ALM activities, equity investments, liquidating businesses and other. ALM activities encompass the whole-loan residential mortgage portfolio and investment securities, interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities including the residual net interest income allocation, gains/losses on structured liabilities, and the impact of certain allocation methodologies and accounting hedge ineffectiveness. For more information on our ALM activities, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities   on page   117  . Equity investments include Global Principal Investments (GPI) which is comprised of a diversified portfolio of equity, real estate and other alternative investments. These investments are made either directly in a company or held through a fund with related income  

recorded in equity investment income. Equity investments also include strategic investments, which include our investment in CCB in which we currently hold approximately   one percent   of the outstanding common shares, and certain other investments. Other     includes certain residential mortgage and discontinued real estate loans that are managed by Legacy Assets   Servicing. In 2012, the Corporation entered into an agreement to sell the   GWIM   IWM businesses based outside of the U.S. and sold its Japanese brokerage joint venture. As a result of these actions, the IWM businesses and the Japanese brokerage joint venture results were moved from   GWIM   to   All Other   and the prior periods have been reclassified. 

The net   loss   for   All Other   of   $3.6 billion   in   2012   compared to net income of   $4.7 billion   in   2011   was primarily due to negative fair value adjustments on structured liabilities of   $5.1 billion   related to the improvement in our credit spreads during   2012   compared to   $3.3 billion   of positive fair value adjustments in   2011  , a   $6.0 billion     decrease   in equity investment income and   $1.6 billion   of lower gains on sales of debt securities. Partially offsetting these items were a   $3.6 billion   reduction in the provision for credit losses,   $1.6 billion   of net gains resulting from repurchases of certain debt and trust preferred securities in   2012   and a net income tax benefit of   $1.7 billion   related to the recognition of certain foreign tax credits. Equity investment income decreased as 2011 included a   $6.5 billion   gain on the sale of a portion of our investment in CCB, an   $836 million   CCB dividend and a   $377 million   gain on the sale of our investment in BlackRock. Partially offsetting these items were an impairment write-down of   $1.1 billion   on our merchant services joint venture in 2011 and a   $370 million   gain related to the sale of the Japanese brokerage joint venture in 2012.  
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $3.6 billion   to   $2.6 billion   in   2012   primarily driven by continued improvement in credit quality in the residential mortgage portfolio and reserve reductions in 2012 compared to reserve additions in 2011 in the Countrywide PCI discontinued real estate and residential mortgage portfolios driven by an improved home price outlook. 
  All other noninterest expense   increased     $1.1 billion   to   $6.1 billion   due to higher litigation expense primarily related to the costs associated with the settlement of a class action lawsuit during 2012 brought on behalf of investors who purchased or held Bank of America equity securities at the time we announced plans to acquire Merrill Lynch and other litigation, partially offset by a decrease in personnel expense. Excluding litigation expense, all other noninterest expense decreased compared to   2011  . There were no merger and restructuring expenses for   2012   compared to   $638 million   in   2011  . A goodwill impairment charge of   $581 million   was recorded during 2011 as a result of a change in the estimated value of the European consumer card business. 
  The income tax   benefit   was   $5.9 billion   in   2012   compared to a benefit of   $1.0 billion   in   2011  . Included in the income tax benefit for   2012   was a   $1.7 billion   tax benefit attributable to the excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability, and 2011 included the release of a valuation allowance applicable to a Merrill Lynch capital loss carryforward deferred tax asset. 

The tables below present the components of equity investments in   All Other   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , and also a reconciliation to the total consolidated equity investment income for   2012   and   2011  . 

Equity investments included in   All Other     decreased     $1.6 billion   to   $5.5 billion   during   2012  ,   with the decrease due to sales in the GPI portfolio. In connection with the Corporation s strategy to reduce risk-weighted assets, we sold certain investments, including related commitments. GPI had unfunded equity commitments of   $224 million   at   December 31, 2012   compared to $710 million at   December 31, 2011  . The increase in equity investment income in the business segments for 2012 was primarily driven by gains on the sale of an equity investment in   Global Markets  . 
  At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , we owned   2.0 billion   shares representing approximately   one percent   of CCB. Sales restrictions on these shares continue until August 2013. Because the sales restrictions on these shares will expire within one year, these securities are accounted for as AFS marketable equity securities and are carried at fair value with the after-tax unrealized gain reflected in accumulated OCI. As a result, a pre-tax unrealized gain of $718 million, or $452 million after-tax, was reflected in accumulated OCI. At   December 31, 2012  , the cost basis was   $716 million   and the carrying value and the fair value were   $1.4 billion  . During 2011, we sold 23.6 billion common shares of our investment in CCB and recorded a pre-tax gain of   $6.5 billion  . For additional information, see   Note 4   Securities     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 
  We have contractual obligations to make future payments on debt and lease agreements. Additionally, in the normal course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements whereby we commit to future purchases of products or services from unaffiliated parties. Obligations that are legally binding agreements whereby we agree to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time are defined as purchase obligations. Included in purchase obligations are commitments to purchase loans of   $1.3 billion   and vendor contracts of   $23.2 billion  . The most significant vendor contracts include communication services, processing services and software contracts. Other long-term liabilities include our contractual funding obligations related to the Qualified Pension Plans, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans (collectively, the Plans). Obligations to the Plans are based on the current and projected  

obligations of the Plans, performance of the Plans  assets and any participant contributions, if applicable. During   2012   and   2011  , we contributed   $381 million   and   $287 million   to the Plans, and we expect to make at least   $319 million   of contributions during   2013  . 
  Debt, lease, equity and other obligations are more fully discussed in   Note 12   Long-term Debt   and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . The Plans are more fully discussed in   Note 18   Employee Benefit Plans     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We enter into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of our customers. For a summary of the total unfunded, or off-balance sheet, credit extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see the table in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Table 10   includes certain contractual obligations at   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    Represents estimated, forecasted net interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits. Forecasts are based on the contractual maturity dates of each liability, and are net of derivative hedges. 
       Representations and Warranties 
  We securitize first-lien residential mortgage loans generally in the form of MBS guaranteed by the GSEs or by GNMA in the case of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed and Rural Housing Service-guaranteed mortgage loans. In addition, in prior years, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations (in certain of these securitizations, monolines or financial guarantee providers insured all or some of the securities) or in the form of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies make or have made various representations and warranties. Breaches of these representations and warranties may result in the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans or to otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to the GSEs, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with respect to FHA-insured loans, VA, whole-loan investors, securitization trusts, monoline insurers or other financial guarantors (collectively, repurchases). In all such cases, we would be exposed to any credit loss on the repurchased mortgage loans after accounting for any mortgage insurance (MI) or mortgage guarantee payments that we may receive. 

Subject to the requirements and limitations of the applicable sales and securitization agreements, these representations and warranties can be enforced by the GSEs, HUD, VA, the whole-loan investor, the securitization trustee or others as governed by the applicable agreement or, in certain first-lien and home equity securitizations where monoline insurers or other financial guarantee providers have insured all or some of the securities issued, by the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor, where the contract so provides. In the case of loans sold to parties other than the GSEs or GNMA, the contractual liability to repurchase typically arises only if there is a breach of the representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interest of the investor, or investors, or of the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor (as applicable) in the loan. Contracts with the GSEs do not contain equivalent language, while GNMA generally limits repurchases to loans that are not insured or guaranteed as required. 
  For additional information about accounting for representations and warranties and our representations and warranties repurchase claims and exposures, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees   and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors  . 

Representations and Warranties Bulk Settlement Actions 
  We have settled, or entered into agreements to settle, certain bulk representations and warranties claims (1) with a trustee (the Trustee) for certain legacy Countrywide private-label securitization trusts (the BNY Mellon Settlement); (2) with two monoline insurers, Assured Guaranty Ltd. and subsidiaries (the Assured Guaranty Settlement), and Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Syncora Holdings, Ltd. (the Syncora Settlement), (3) with each of the GSEs in 2010 (2010 GSE Agreements), and (4) with FNMA pursuant to the FNMA Settlement in 2013. 
  We have vigorously contested any request for repurchase when we conclude that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist and will continue to do so in the future. However, in an effort to resolve these legacy mortgage-related issues, we have reached bulk settlements, or agreements for bulk settlements, including settlement amounts which have been material, with the above-referenced counterparties in lieu of a loan-by-loan review process. We may reach other settlements in the future if opportunities arise on terms we believe to be advantageous. However, there can be no assurance that we will reach future settlements or, if we do, that the terms of past settlements can be relied upon to predict the terms of future settlements. These bulk settlements generally did not cover all transactions with the relevant counterparties or all potential claims that may arise, including in some instances securities law, fraud and servicing claims, and our liability in connection with the transactions and claims not covered by these settlements could be material. For a summary of the larger bulk settlement actions taken in the past few years and the related impact on the representations and warranties provision and liability, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees   and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  
  FNMA Settlement and 2010 GSE Agreements 
  On   January 6, 2013  , we entered into the FNMA Settlement to resolve substantially all outstanding and potential repurchase and certain other claims relating to the origination, sale and delivery of residential mortgage loans originated and sold directly to FNMA from   January 1, 2000   through   December 31, 2008   by entities related to legacy Countrywide and BANA. 
  The FNMA Settlement covers loans with an aggregate original principal balance of approximately   $1.4 trillion   and an aggregate outstanding principal balance of approximately   $300 billion  . Unresolved repurchase claims submitted by FNMA for alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties with respect to these loans totaled   $12.2 billion   of unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2012  . The FNMA Settlement extinguished substantially all of those unresolved repurchase claims, as well as substantially all future representations and warranties repurchase claims associated with such loans, subject to certain exceptions which we do not expect to be material. 
  In January 2013, we made a cash payment to FNMA of   $3.6 billion   and also repurchased for   $6.6 billion   certain residential mortgage loans that had previously been sold to FNMA, which we have valued at less than the purchase price.  
  The FNMA Settlement also clarified the parties  obligations with respect to MI including establishing timeframes for certain payments and other actions, setting parameters for potential bulk settlements and providing for cooperation in future dealings with mortgage insurers. For additional information, see   Open Mortgage Insurance Rescission Notices   on page   57  . 

In addition, we settled substantially all of FNMA s outstanding and future claims for compensatory fees arising out of past foreclosure delays. For additional information, see   Other Mortgage-related Matters   Impact of Foreclosure Delays   on page   63  . 
  On December 31, 2010, we entered into the 2010 GSE Agreements, which extinguished certain claims arising out of alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties related to loans sold directly by legacy Countrywide to the GSEs. The FHLMC agreement extinguished all such claims for loans sold to FHLMC through 2008, subject to certain exceptions, while the FNMA agreement substantially resolved the existing pipeline of such claims outstanding as of September 20, 2010.  
  Monoline Settlements  
  On July 17, 2012, we entered into a settlement with a monoline insurer, Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Syncora Holdings, Ltd. (Syncora), to resolve all of Syncora s outstanding and potential claims related to alleged representations and warranties breaches involving   eight   first- and   six   second-lien private-label securitization trusts where it provided financial guarantee insurance. The settlement covers private-label securitization trusts that had an original principal balance of first-lien mortgages of approximately   $9.6 billion   and second-lien mortgages of approximately   $7.7 billion  . The settlement provided for a cash payment of   $375 million   to Syncora and other transactions to terminate certain other relationships among the parties. 
  On   April 14, 2011  , Bank of America, including our legacy Countrywide affiliates, entered into an agreement with Assured Guaranty Ltd. and subsidiaries (Assured Guaranty), to resolve all of the monoline insurer s outstanding and potential repurchase claims related to alleged representations and warranties breaches involving   21   first- and   eight   second-lien RMBS trusts where Assured Guaranty provided financial guarantee insurance. 
  BNY Mellon Settlement 
  The BNY Mellon Settlement is subject to final court approval and certain other conditions. On August 10, 2012, the Court issued an order setting a schedule for discovery and other proceedings, and setting May 30, 2013 as the date for the final court hearing on the settlement to begin. We are not a party to the proceeding. 
  If final court approval is not obtained by   December 31, 2015  , we and legacy Countrywide may withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement, if the Trustee consents. The BNY Mellon Settlement also provides that if trusts among the   525   legacy Countrywide first-lien and   five   second-lien non-GSE securitization trusts (Covered Trusts) holding loans with an unpaid principal balance exceeding a specified amount are excluded from the final BNY Mellon Settlement, based on investor objections or otherwise, we and legacy Countrywide have the option to withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement pursuant to the terms of the BNY Mellon Settlement agreement.  
  It is not currently possible to predict how many parties will ultimately object to the BNY Mellon Settlement, whether the objections will prevent receipt of final court approval or the ultimate outcome of the court approval process, which can include appeals and could take a substantial period of time. In particular, any appeals could take a substantial period of time and these factors could materially delay the timing of final court approval. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict when the court approval process will be completed. 

There can be no assurance that final court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement will be obtained, that all conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement will be satisfied or, if certain conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement permitting withdrawal are met, that we and legacy Countrywide will not withdraw from the settlement. If final court approval is not obtained or if we and legacy Countrywide withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement in accordance with its terms, our future representations and warranties losses could be substantially different than existing accruals and the estimated range of possible loss over existing accruals. For more information about the risks associated with the BNY Mellon Settlement, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors  . 
  Unresolved Claims Status 
  Unresolved Repurchase Claims 
  Prior to the FNMA Settlement on   January 6, 2013  , the total notional amount of our unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims was approximately   $28.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $12.6 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . These repurchase claims do not include any repurchase claims related to the Covered Trusts. Unresolved repurchase claims represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by counterparties, typically the outstanding principal balance or the unpaid principal balance at the time of default. In the case of first-lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly greater than the expected loss amount due to the benefit of collateral and, in some cases, MI or mortgage guarantee payments. Claims received from a counterparty remain outstanding until the underlying loan is repurchased, the claim is rescinded by the counterparty or the claim is otherwise resolved. When a claim is denied and we do not receive a response from the counterparty, the claim remains in the unresolved repurchase claims balance until resolution.  
  The notional amount of unresolved GSE repurchase claims totaled   $13.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to $6.2 billion at December 31, 2011. As a result of the FNMA Settlement,   $12.2 billion   of GSE repurchase claims outstanding at   December 31, 2012   were resolved in January 2013. 
  The notional amount of unresolved monoline repurchase claims totaled   $2.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $3.1 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The decrease in unresolved repurchase claims was driven by resolution of claims through the Syncora Settlement. We have had limited loan-level repurchase claims experience with monoline insurers due to ongoing litigation. We have reviewed and declined to repurchase substantially all of the unresolved repurchase claims at   December 31, 2012   based on an assessment of whether a breach exists that materially and adversely affected the insurer s interest in the mortgage loan. Further, in our experience, the monolines have been generally unwilling to withdraw repurchase claims, regardless of whether and what evidence was offered to refute a claim. Substantially all of the unresolved monoline claims pertain to second-lien loans and are currently the subject of litigation. 
  The notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims from private-label securitization trustees, third-party securitization  

sponsors, whole-loan investors and others increased to   $12.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $3.3 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The increase in the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims is primarily due to increases in the submission of claims by private-label securitization trustees and a third-party securitization sponsor; the level of detail, support and analysis which impacts overall claim quality and, therefore, claims resolution; and the lack of an established process to resolve disputes related to these claims. We anticipated an increase in aggregate non-GSE claims at the time of the BNY Mellon Settlement in June 2011, and such increase in aggregate non-GSE claims was taken into consideration in developing the increase in our representations and warranties liability at that time. We expect unresolved repurchase claims related to private-label securitizations to continue to increase as claims continue to be submitted by private-label securitization trustees and third-party securitization sponsors and there is not an established process for the ultimate resolution of claims on which there is a disagreement.  
  During   2012  , we received   $22.4 billion   in new repurchase claims, including   $10.3 billion   submitted by FNMA and covered by the FNMA Settlement,   $2.3 billion   submitted by the GSEs for both legacy Countrywide and legacy Bank of America originations not covered by the 2010 GSE Agreements or the FNMA Settlement,   $8.0 billion   submitted by private-label securitization trustees,   $1.5 billion   from whole-loan investors, primarily third-party securitization sponsors, and   $295 million   submitted by monolines. During   2012  ,   $6.6 billion   in claims were resolved, primarily with the GSEs and through the Syncora Settlement. Of the resolved claims,   $4.6 billion   were resolved through rescissions and   $2.0 billion   were resolved through mortgage repurchases and make-whole payments. For more information on repurchase claims received from the GSEs, monoline insurers, private-label securitization trustees, whole-loan investors and others, the resolution of such claims and for a table of unresolved repurchase claims, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  
  In addition to the total unresolved repurchase claims, we have received repurchase demands from private-label securitization investors and a master servicer where we believe the claimants have not satisfied the contractual thresholds to direct the securitization trustee to take action and/or that these demands are otherwise procedurally or substantively invalid. The total amounts outstanding of such demands were   $1.6 billion   and   $1.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . At December 31, 2011, the   $1.7 billion   of demands outstanding were related to Covered Trusts in the BNY Mellon Settlement of which   $1.4 billion   were subsequently resolved through the July 2012 dismissal of a lawsuit brought by Walnut Place (11 entities with the common name Walnut Place, including Walnut Place LLC, and Walnut Place II LLC through Walnut Place XI LLC). Additional demands totaling   $1.3 billion   were received during   2012  . We do not believe that the   $1.6 billion   in demands outstanding at   December 31, 2012   are valid repurchase claims, and therefore it is not possible to predict the resolution with respect to such demands.  

Open Mortgage Insurance Rescission Notices 
  In addition to repurchase claims, we receive notices from mortgage insurance companies of claim denials, cancellations or coverage rescission (collectively, MI rescission notices) and the number of such notices has remained elevated. By way of background, mortgage insurance compensates lenders or investors for certain losses resulting from borrower default on a mortgage loan. When there is disagreement with the mortgage insurer as to the resolution of a MI rescission notice, meaningful dialogue and negotiation between the mortgage insurance company and the Corporation are generally necessary to reach a resolution on an individual notice. The level of engagement of the mortgage insurance companies varies and ongoing litigation involving some of the mortgage insurance companies over individual and bulk rescissions or claims for rescission limits our ability to engage in constructive dialogue leading to resolution. 
  For loans sold to GSEs or private-label securitization trusts (including those wrapped by the monoline bond insurers), when we receive a MI rescission notice from a mortgage insurance company, it may give rise to a claim for breach of the applicable representations and warranties from the GSEs or private-label securitization trusts, depending on the governing sales contracts. In those cases where the governing contract contains MI-related representations and warranties, which upon rescission require us to repurchase the affected loan or indemnify the investor for the related loss, we realize the loss without the benefit of MI. See below for a discussion of the impact of the FNMA Settlement. In addition, mortgage insurance companies have in some cases asserted the ability to curtail MI payments as a result of alleged foreclosure delays, which if successful, would reduce the MI proceeds available to reduce the loss on the loan.  
  At   December 31, 2012  , we had approximately   110,000   open MI rescission notices compared to   90,000   at   December 31, 2011  , including 49,000 pertaining principally to first-lien mortgages serviced for others, 11,000 pertaining to loans held-for-investment (HFI), and 50,000 pertaining to ongoing litigation for second-lien mortgages. Approximately 27,000 of the open MI rescission notices pertaining to first-lien mortgages serviced for others are related to loans sold to FNMA. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   32 percent   of the MI rescission notices received have been resolved. Of those resolved,   20 percent   were resolved through our acceptance of the MI rescission,   58 percent   were resolved through reinstatement of coverage or payment of the claim by the mortgage insurance company, and   22 percent   were resolved on an aggregate basis through settlement, policy commutation or similar arrangement. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   68 percent   of the MI rescission notices we have received have not yet been resolved. Of those not yet resolved,   46 percent   are implicated by ongoing litigation where no loan-level review is currently contemplated nor required to preserve our legal rights. In this litigation, the litigating mortgage insurance companies are also seeking bulk rescission of certain policies, separate and apart from loan-by-loan denials or rescissions. We are in the process of reviewing   37 percent   of the remaining open MI rescission notices, and we have reviewed and are contesting the MI rescission with respect to   63 percent   of these remaining open MI rescission notices. Of the remaining open MI rescission notices,   40 percent   are also the subject of ongoing litigation; although, at present, these MI rescissions are being processed in a manner generally consistent with those not affected by litigation.  
  In addition to the discussion above, the FNMA Settlement resolved significant representations and warranties exposures  

including unresolved and potential repurchase claims from FNMA resulting solely from MI rescission notices relating to loans covered by the FNMA Settlement. Our pipeline of unresolved repurchase claims from the GSEs resulting solely from MI rescission notices increased to   $2.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   from   $1.2 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The FNMA Settlement resolved approximately   $1.9 billion   of such unresolved repurchase claims. In 2011, FNMA issued an announcement requiring servicers to report all MI rescission notices with respect to loans sold to FNMA and confirmed FNMA s view of its position that a mortgage insurance company s issuance of a MI rescission notice in and of itself constitutes a breach of the lender s representations and warranties and permits FNMA to require the lender to repurchase the mortgage loan or promptly remit a make-whole payment covering FNMA s loss even if the lender is contesting the MI rescission notice. We had informed FNMA that we did not believe that the new policy was valid under our contracts with FNMA. The parties resolved this and other MI-related issues as part of the FNMA Settlement, which clarified the parties  obligations with respect to MI including establishing timeframes for certain payments and other actions, setting parameters for potential bulk settlements and providing for cooperation in future dealings with mortgage insurers. As a result, we will be required to remit to FNMA the amount of certain MI coverage as a result of MI claims rescissions in advance of collection from the mortgage insurance companies and, in certain cases, we may not ultimately collect all such amounts from the mortgage insurance companies. For additional information, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Representations and Warranties Liability 
  The liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related provision is included in mortgage banking income (loss). Our estimate of the liability for representations and warranties exposure and the corresponding range of possible loss is based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of factors and assumptions that are subject to change. For additional information, see the Estimated Range of Possible Loss section below and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and, for information related to the sensitivity of the assumptions used to estimate our liability for obligations under representations and warranties, see   Complex Accounting Estimates   Representations and Warranties   on page   126  . 
  The liability for obligations under representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss for these representations and warranties exposures do not consider any losses related to litigation matters, including litigation brought by monoline insurers, nor do they include any separate foreclosure costs and related costs, assessments and compensatory fees or any other possible losses related to potential claims for breaches of performance of servicing obligations, except as such losses are included as potential costs of the BNY Mellon Settlement, potential securities law or fraud claims or potential indemnity or other claims against us, including claims related to loans insured by the FHA. We are not able to reasonably estimate the amount of any possible loss with respect to any such servicing, securities law, fraud or other claims against us, except to the extent reflected in the aggregate range of possible  

loss for litigation and regulatory matters disclosed in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  ; however, such loss could be material. 
  At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees was   $19.0 billion   and   $15.9 billion  . For   2012  , the provision for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees was   $3.9 billion   compared to   $15.6 billion   for   2011  . The provision in   2012   included   $2.5 billion   in provision related to the FNMA Settlement and   $500 million   for obligations to FNMA related to MI rescissions. The provision in   2011   included   $8.6 billion   in provision and other expenses related to the BNY Mellon Settlement to resolve nearly all of the legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-GSE repurchase exposures, and   $7.0 billion   in provision related to other non-GSE, and to a lesser extent, GSE exposures.  
  Estimated Range of Possible Loss 
  Our estimated liability at   December 31, 2012   for obligations under representations and warranties is necessarily dependent on, and limited by, a number of factors, including for private-label securitizations, the implied repurchase experience based on the BNY Mellon Settlement, as well as certain other assumptions and judgmental factors. Accordingly, future provisions associated with obligations under representations and warranties may be materially impacted if actual experiences are different from historical experience or our understandings, interpretations or assumptions.  
  In the case of non-GSE exposures, including private-label securitizations, our estimate of the representations and warranties liability and the corresponding range of possible loss considers, among other things, repurchase experience based on the BNY Mellon Settlement, adjusted to reflect differences between the Covered Trusts and the remainder of the population of private-label securitizations, and assumes that the conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement will be met. Where relevant, we also take into account more recent experience, such as increased claims and other facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements, as we believe appropriate.  
  The representations and warranties liability represents our best estimate of probable incurred losses as of   December 31, 2012  . However, it is reasonably possible that future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the amounts recorded for these exposures. In addition, we have not recorded any representations and warranties liability for certain potential private-label securitization and whole-loan exposures where we have little to no claim experience. We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to   $4 billion   over accruals at   December 31, 2012   compared to up to   $5 billion   over accruals at   December 31, 2011   for only non-GSE representations and warranties exposures. The range of possible loss at   December 31, 2012   reflects the impact of the FNMA Settlement and, as a result, addresses principally non-GSE exposures. The reduction in the range of possible loss from   December 31, 2011   is the net impact of, among other changes, updated assumptions and other developments. The estimated range of possible loss related to these representations and warranties exposures does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. For additional information about the methodology used to estimate the representations and warranties liability and the corresponding range of possible loss, see   Note 8    

Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Future provisions and/or ranges of possible loss for representations and warranties may be significantly impacted if actual experiences are different from our assumptions in our predictive models, including, without limitation, ultimate resolution of the BNY Mellon Settlement, estimated repurchase rates, economic conditions, estimated home prices, consumer and counterparty behavior, and a variety of other judgmental factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the assumptions underlying the liability for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss could result in significant increases to future provisions and/or the estimated range of possible loss. For example, if courts, in the context of claims brought by private-label securitization trustees, were to disagree with our interpretation that the underlying agreements require a claimant to prove that the representations and warranties breach was the cause of the loss, it could significantly impact the estimated range of possible loss. Additionally, if recent court rulings related to monoline litigation, including one related to us, that have allowed sampling of loan files instead of requiring a loan-by-loan review to determine if a representations and warranties breach has occurred, are followed generally by the courts in future monoline litigation, private-label securitization counterparties may view litigation as a more attractive alternative compared to a loan-by-loan review. For additional information regarding these issues, see MBIA litigation in Litigation and Regulatory Matters in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . Finally, although we believe that the representations and warranties typically given in non-GSE transactions are less rigorous and actionable than those given in GSE transactions, we do not have significant experience resolving loan-level claims in non-GSE transactions to measure the impact of these differences on the probability that a loan will be required to be repurchased. 
  Government-sponsored Enterprises Experience 
  Prior to the FNMA Settlement, our repurchase claims experience with the GSEs had been concentrated in the   2004   through   2008   vintages where we believed that our exposure to representations and warranties liability was most significant. Our repurchase claims experience related to loans originated prior to   2004   has not been significant and we believe that changes made to our operations and underwriting policies reduced our exposure related to loans originated after   2008  .  
  Bank of America and legacy Countrywide sold approximately   $1.1 trillion   of loans originated from   2004   through   2008   to the GSEs. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   12 percent   of the original funded balance of loans in these vintages had defaulted or were 180 days or more past due (severely delinquent). As of   December 31, 2012  , we had received   $43.5 billion   in repurchase claims associated with these vintages, representing approximately   four percent   of the original funded balance of loans sold to the GSEs in these vintages. Prior to the FNMA Settlement, we had resolved   $29.6 billion   of these claims with a net loss experience of approximately   29 percent  , after considering the effect of collateral. Our collateral loss severity rate on approved repurchases had averaged approximately   55 percent  . The FNMA Settlement in January 2013 resolved an additional   $12.2 billion   in repurchase claims outstanding at   December 31, 2012  , primarily related to loans originated from   2004   through   2008  . 

We and our subsidiaries have an established history of working with the GSEs on repurchase claims. In   2012  , we continued to experience elevated levels of claims from FNMA, including claims on loans on which borrowers have made a significant number of payments (e.g., at least   25   payments) and, to a lesser extent, loans that defaulted more than   18   months prior to the repurchase request. The FNMA Settlement resolved substantially all of the  

claims with respect to loans originated and sold to FNMA between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2008, as well as substantially all future representations and warranties repurchase claims associated with these loans.  
  Table 11   highlights our experience with the GSEs related to loans originated from   2004   through   2008  .  

Beginning in February 2012, we stopped delivering purchase money and non-Making Home Affordable (MHA) refinance first-lien residential mortgage products into FNMA MBS pools because of the expiration and mutual non-renewal of certain contractual delivery commitments and variances that permit efficient delivery of such loans to FNMA. While we continue to have a valid agreement with FNMA permitting the delivery of purchase money and non-MHA refinance first-lien residential mortgage products without such contractual variances, the delivery of such products without contractual delivery commitments and variances would involve time and expense to implement the necessary operational and systems changes and otherwise presents practical operational issues. We do not expect this change to have a material impact on our   CRES   business, as we expect to rely on other sources of liquidity to actively extend mortgage credit to our customers including continuing to deliver such products into FHLMC MBS pools. Additionally, we continue to deliver MHA refinancing products into FNMA MBS pools. 
  Experience with Investors Other than Government-sponsored Enterprises 
  In prior years, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations or in the form of whole loans originated from   2004   through   2008   with an original principal balance of   $963 billion   to investors other than GSEs (although the GSEs are investors in certain private-label securitizations), of which approximately   $530 billion   in principal has been paid and   $244 billion   has defaulted or is severely delinquent at   December 31, 2012  . 
  As it relates to private-label securitizations, a contractual  

liability to repurchase mortgage loans generally arises only if counterparties prove there is a breach of the representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interest of the investor or all investors in a securitization trust or of the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor (as applicable). We believe that the longer a loan performs, the less likely it is that an alleged representations and warranties breach had a material impact on the loan s performance or that a breach even exists. Because the majority of the borrowers in this population would have made a significant number of payments if they are not yet 180 days or more past due, we believe that the principal balance at the greatest risk for repurchase claims in this population of private-label securitizations are loans that have already defaulted and those that are currently severely delinquent. Additionally, only counterparties with the contractual right to demand repurchase of a loan can present valid repurchase claims (in the case of private-label securitization trust investors, they generally have to meet certain contractual thresholds in order to require trustees to present repurchase claims). While we believe the agreements for private-label securitizations generally contain less rigorous representations and warranties and place higher burdens on investors seeking repurchases than the explicit provisions of the comparable agreements with the GSEs without regard to any variations that may have arisen as a result of dealings with the GSEs, the agreements generally include a representation that underwriting practices were prudent and customary. 
  Any amounts paid related to repurchase claims from a monoline insurer are paid to the securitization trust and are applied in accordance with the terms of the governing securitization documents, which may include use by the securitization trust to repay any outstanding monoline advances or reduce future advances from the monolines. To the extent that a monoline has  

not advanced funds or does not anticipate that it will be required to advance funds to the securitization trust, the likelihood of receiving a repurchase claim from a monoline may be reduced as the monoline would receive limited or no benefit from the payment of repurchase claims. Moreover, some monolines are not currently performing their obligations under the financial guaranty policies they issued which may, in certain circumstances, impact their ability to present repurchase claims; although in those circumstances, trustees can bring repurchase claims, including at the direction of investors if contractual thresholds are met. 
  Table 12   details the population of loans originated between   2004   and   2008   and the population of loans sold as whole loans or in non-agency securitizations by entity and product together with the defaulted and severely delinquent loans stratified by the  

number of payments the borrower made prior to default or becoming severely delinquent as of   December 31, 2012  . We believe many of the defaults observed in these securitizations have been, and continue to be, driven by external factors like the substantial depreciation in home prices, persistently high unemployment and other negative economic trends, diminishing the likelihood that any loan defect (assuming one exists at all) was the cause of a loan s default. As of   December 31, 2012  , approximately   25 percent   of the loans sold to non-GSEs that were originated between   2004   and   2008   have defaulted or are severely delinquent. Of the original principal balance for Countrywide,   $409 billion   is included in the BNY Mellon Settlement and of this amount   $112 billion   was defaulted or severely delinquent at   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    Excludes transactions sponsored by Bank of America and Merrill Lynch where no representations or warranties were made. 
               (2)   
    Includes exposures on third-party sponsored transactions related to legacy entity originations. 
       Monoline Insurers 
  Legacy companies sold   $184.5 billion   of loans originated between   2004   and   2008   into monoline-insured securitizations, which are included in   Table 12  , including   $103.9 billion   of first-lien mortgages and   $80.6 billion   of second-lien mortgages. Of these balances,   $48.9 billion   of the first-lien mortgages and   $51.8 billion   of the second-lien mortgages have been paid in full and   $35.1 billion   of the first-lien mortgages and   $17.6 billion   of the second-lien mortgages have defaulted or are severely delinquent at   December 31, 2012  . At least   25   payments have been made on approximately   56 percent   of the defaulted and severely delinquent loans. Of the first-lien mortgages sold,   $39.1 billion  , or   38 percent  , were sold as whole loans to other institutions which subsequently included these loans with those of other originators in private-label securitization transactions in which the monolines insured one or more securities.  
  As of   December 31, 2012  , we have received   $6.0 billion   of representations and warranties repurchase claims associated with these vintages from the monoline insurers related to the monoline-insured transactions, predominately second-lien transactions. Of these repurchase claims,   $2.4 billion   were resolved through the Assured Guaranty and Syncora Settlements,   $816 million   were resolved through repurchase or indemnification with losses of   $649 million  , and   $302 million   were rescinded by the monoline  

insurers or paid in full. Our limited experience with most of the monoline insurers has varied in terms of process, and experience with these counterparties has not been predictable. Our limited claims experience with the monoline insurers in the repurchase process is a result of these monoline insurers having instituted litigation against legacy Countrywide and/or Bank of America, which impacts our ability to enter into constructive dialogue with these monolines to resolve the open claims.  
  At   December 31, 2012  , for loans originated between   2004   and   2008  , the unpaid principal balance of loans related to unresolved monoline repurchase claims was   $2.4 billion  , substantially all of which we have reviewed and declined to repurchase based on an assessment of whether a material breach exists. At   December 31, 2012  , the unpaid principal balance of loans in these vintages for which the monolines had requested loan files for review but for which no repurchase claim had been received was   $5.3 billion  , excluding loans that had been paid in full or resolved through settlements. Of these file requests,   $4.0 billion   are aged and subject to ongoing litigation. There will likely be additional requests for loan files in the future leading to repurchase claims. In addition, we have received claims from private-label securitization trustees and a third-party securitization sponsor related to first-lien third-party sponsored securitizations that include monoline insurance. 

It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate probable future repurchase obligations with respect to those monolines with whom we have limited repurchase experience and, therefore, no representations and warranties liability has been recorded in connection with these monolines, other than a liability for repurchase claims where we have determined that there are valid loan defects and determined that there is a breach of a representation and warranty and that any other requirements for repurchase have been met. Outside of the standard quality control process that is an integral part of our loan origination process, we do not generally review loan files until we receive a repurchase claim, including with respect to monoline exposures. Our estimated range of possible loss related to representations and warranties exposures as of   December 31, 2012   does not include possible losses related to these monoline insurers. For additional information, see   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  
  Whole Loans and Private-label Securitizations 
  Legacy entities, and to a lesser extent Bank of America, sold loans to investors as whole loans or via private-label securitizations. The majority of the loans sold were included in private-label securitizations, including third-party sponsored transactions. We provided representations and warranties to the whole-loan investors and these investors may retain those rights even when the whole loans were aggregated with other collateral into private-label securitizations sponsored by the whole-loan investors. The loans sold with a total principal balance of   $778.2 billion  , included in   Table 12  , were originated between   2004   and   2008  , of which   $429.0 billion   have been paid in full and   $191.4 billion   are defaulted or severely delinquent at   December 31, 2012  . At least   25   payments have been made on approximately   64 percent   of the defaulted and severely delinquent loans. We have received approximately   $19.4 billion   of representations and warranties repurchase claims from whole-loan investors, including third-party sponsors, and private-label securitization investors and trustees related to these vintages, including   $10.5 billion   from private-label securitization trustees,   $8.0 billion   from whole-loan investors and   $815 million   from one private-label securitization counterparty. In private-label securitizations, certain presentation thresholds need to be met in order for investors to direct a trustee to assert repurchase claims. Recent increases in new private-label claims are primarily related to repurchase requests received from trustees and third-party sponsors for private-label securitization transactions not included in the BNY Mellon Settlement, including claims related to first-lien third-party sponsored securitizations that include monoline insurance. Over time, there has been an increase in requests for loan files from certain private-label securitization trustees, as well as requests for tolling agreements to toll the applicable statutes of limitation relating to representations and warranties repurchase claims, and we believe it is likely that these requests will lead to an increase in repurchase claims from private-label securitization trustees with standing to bring such claims. 
  We have resolved   $7.3 billion   of the claims received from whole-loan investors and private-label securitization investors and trustees with losses of   $1.6 billion  . The majority of these resolved claims were from third-party whole-loan investors. Approximately   $2.9 billion   of these claims were resolved through repurchase or indemnification and   $4.4 billion   were rescinded by the investor. At   December 31, 2012  , for loans originated between   2004   and   2008  , the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims  

submitted by private-label securitization trustees and whole-loan investors was   $12.2 billion  . We have performed an initial review with respect to   $10.9 billion   of these claims and do not believe a valid basis for repurchase has been established by the claimant and are still in the process of reviewing the remaining   $1.3 billion   of these claims. 
  Certain whole-loan investors have engaged with us in a consistent repurchase process and we have used that and other experience to record a liability related to existing and future claims from such counterparties. The BNY Mellon Settlement and subsequent activity with certain counterparties led to the determination that we had sufficient experience to record a liability related to our exposure on certain private-label securitizations but did not provide sufficient experience related to certain private-label securitizations sponsored by third-party whole-loan investors. As it relates to the other private-label securitizations sponsored by third-party whole-loan investors and certain other whole loan sales, it is not possible to determine whether a loss has occurred or is probable; and therefore, no representations and warranties liability has been recorded in connection with these transactions. Until we receive a repurchase claim, we generally have not reviewed loan files related to private-label securitizations sponsored by third-party whole-loan investors (and are not required by the governing documents to do so). Our estimated range of possible loss related to representations and warranties exposures as of   December 31, 2012   included possible losses related to these whole loan sales and private-label securitizations sponsored by third-party whole-loan investors. 
  Private-label securitization investors generally do not have the contractual right to demand repurchase of loans directly or the right to access loan files. We have received repurchase demands totaling   $1.6 billion   from private-label securitization investors and a master servicer where in each case we believe the claimant has not satisfied the contractual thresholds to direct the securitization trustee to take action and/or that the demands are otherwise procedurally or substantively invalid.  
  Other Mortgage-related Matters 
  Servicing Matters and Foreclosure Processes 
  We service a large portion of the loans we or our subsidiaries have securitized and also service loans on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. Our servicing obligations are set forth in servicing agreements with the applicable counterparty. These obligations may include, but are not limited to, loan repurchase requirements in certain circumstances, indemnifications, payment of fees, advances for foreclosure costs that are not reimbursable, or responsibility for losses in excess of guarantees for VA loans.  
  Servicing agreements with the GSEs generally provide the GSEs with broader rights relative to the servicer than are found in servicing agreements with private investors. For example, each GSE typically claims the right to demand that the servicer repurchase loans that breach the seller s representations and warranties made in connection with the initial sale of the loans even if the servicer was not the seller. The GSEs claim that they have the contractual right to demand indemnification or loan repurchase for certain servicing breaches. In addition, the GSEs  first-lien mortgage seller/servicer guides provide for timelines to resolve delinquent loans through workout efforts or liquidation, if necessary, and purport to require the imposition of compensatory fees if those deadlines are not satisfied except for reasons beyond  

the control of the servicer; although, we believe that the governing contracts, our course of dealing, and collective past practices and understandings should inform resolution of these matters. In addition, many non-agency RMBS and whole-loan servicing agreements state that the servicer may be liable for failure to perform its servicing obligations in keeping with industry standards or for acts or omissions that involve willful malfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of, the servicer s duties.  
  It is not possible to reasonably estimate our liability with respect to potential servicing-related claims. While we have recorded certain accruals for servicing-related claims, the amount of potential liability in excess of existing accruals could be material. 
  In October 2010, we voluntarily stopped taking residential mortgage foreclosure proceedings to judgment in states where foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states) and stopped foreclosure sales in all states in order to complete an assessment of related business processes. We have resumed foreclosure sales in all states, but our progress on foreclosure sales in judicial states has been much slower than in states where foreclosure does not require a court order (non-judicial states). 
  2011 OCC Consent Order and 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement 
  We entered into the 2011 OCC Consent Order on   April 13, 2011  . This consent order required servicers to make several enhancements to their servicing operations, including implementation of a single point of contact model for borrowers throughout the loss mitigation and foreclosure processes, adoption of measures designed to ensure that foreclosure activity is halted once a borrower has been approved for a modification unless the borrower fails to make payments under the modified loan and implementation of enhanced controls over third-party vendors that provide default servicing support services. In addition, the 2011 OCC Consent Order required that we retain an independent consultant, approved by the OCC, to conduct a review of all foreclosure actions pending, or foreclosure sales that occurred, between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2010 and submit a plan to the OCC to remediate all financial injury to borrowers caused by any deficiencies identified through the review. On   January 7, 2013  , we and other mortgage servicing institutions entered into the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement with the Federal Reserve and the OCC to cease the case-by-case IFR program created by the 2011 OCC Consent Order and replace it with an accelerated remediation process. The 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement requires us to make a cash payment of   $1.1 billion   and provide   $1.8 billion   of borrower assistance in the form of loan modifications and other foreclosure prevention actions. The borrower assistance program is not expected to result in any incremental credit provision, as we believe that the existing allowance for credit losses is adequate to absorb any costs that have not already been recorded as charge-offs. 
  National Mortgage Settlement 
  In March 2012, we entered into settlement agreements (collectively, the National Mortgage Settlement) with (1) the U.S. Department of Justice, various federal regulatory agencies and   49   state Attorneys General to resolve federal and state investigations into certain residential mortgage origination, servicing and foreclosure practices, (2) HUD to resolve certain claims relating  

to the origination of FHA-insured mortgage loans, primarily by Countrywide prior to and for a period following our acquisition of that lender, and (3) each of the Federal Reserve and the OCC regarding civil monetary penalties related to conduct that was the subject of consent orders entered into with the banking regulators in April 2011. The National Mortgage Settlement was entered by the court as a consent judgment on April 5, 2012. The National Mortgage Settlement provided for the establishment of certain uniform servicing standards, upfront cash payments of approximately   $1.9 billion   to the state and federal governments and for borrower restitution, approximately   $7.6 billion   in borrower assistance in the form of, among other things, credits earned for principal reduction, short sales, deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure and approximately   $1.0 billion   of credits earned for interest rate reduction modifications. In addition, the settlement with HUD provided for an upfront cash payment of   $500 million   to settle certain claims related to FHA-insured loans. We will also be obligated to provide additional cash payments of up to   $850 million   if we fail to earn an additional   $850 million   of credits stemming from incremental first-lien principal reductions over a three-year period.  
  The borrower assistance program did not result in any incremental credit provision during   2012  , as we believe that the existing allowance for credit losses is adequate to absorb any costs that have not already been recorded as charge-offs. The interest rate modification program consisted of interest rate reductions on first-lien loans originated prior to January 1, 2009 that have a current loan-to-value (LTV) ratio greater than 100 percent and that meet certain eligibility criteria, including the requirement that all payments due for the last twelve months have been made in a timely manner. This program commits us to forego future interest payments that we may not otherwise have agreed to forego, and no loss has been recognized in the financial statements related to such forgone interest. Modifications of approximately   7,500   loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of   $2.1 billion   providing for an average interest rate reduction of approximately   two percent   were completed as of   December 31, 2012  , resulting in an estimated decrease in fair value of the modified loans of approximately   $242 million  . The interest rate modification program is expected to include approximately   20,000   to   25,000   loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of   $5.4 billion   to   $6.8 billion  . Assuming an average interest rate reduction of approximately   two percent  , the modifications are expected to result in a reduction of annual interest income of approximately   $100 million   to   $130 million   when the program is complete. Assuming a weighted-average loan life of approximately   eight   years, the fair value of loans in the program is expected to decrease by approximately   $600 million   to   $800 million   as a result of the interest rate reductions. The financial impact will vary depending on final terms of modifications offered and the rate of borrower acceptance. We do not expect loans modified under the program to be accounted for as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). If the program is expanded to include loans that do not meet specified underwriting criteria, such as maximum debt-to-income ratios or minimum FICO scores, the modifications of such loans will be accounted for as TDRs.  
  We could be required to make additional payments if we fail to meet our borrower assistance and rate reduction modification commitments over a three-year period, in an amount equal to   125 percent   to   140 percent   of the shortfall, dependent on the two- and three-year commitment target. We also entered into agreements with several states under which we committed to perform certain  

minimum levels of principal reduction and related activities within those states in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement, and under which we could be required to make additional payments if we fail to meet such minimum levels.  
  We believe that it is likely that we will meet all borrower assistance, rate reduction modification and principal reduction commitments required under the National Mortgage Settlement and, therefore, do not expect to be required to make additional cash payments. Although it is possible that the cost of fulfilling the commitments could increase, leading to an incremental credit provision, the amount of any such incremental provision is not reasonably estimable. Although we may incur additional operating costs such as servicing costs to implement parts of the National Mortgage Settlement in future periods, we do not expect that those costs will be material.  
  Under the terms of the National Mortgage Settlement, the federal and participating state governments agreed to release us from further liability for certain alleged residential mortgage origination, servicing and foreclosure deficiencies. In settling origination issues related to FHA-guaranteed loans originated on or before April 30, 2009, we received a release from further liability for all origination claims with respect to such loans if an insurance claim had been submitted to the FHA prior to January 1, 2012 and a release of multiple damages and penalties, but not single damages, if no such claim had been submitted. In addition, provided we meet our assistance and remediation commitments, the OCC agreed not to assess, and we will not be obligated to pay to the Federal Reserve, any civil monetary penalties. 
  The National Mortgage Settlement does not cover certain claims arising out of origination, securitization (including representations made to investors with respect to MBS), criminal claims, private claims by borrowers, claims by certain states for injunctive relief or actual economic damages to borrowers related to the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (MERS), and claims by the GSEs (including repurchase demands), among other items.  
  Additionally, we continue to be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to our past and current origination, servicing and foreclosure activities, including those claims not covered by the National Mortgage Settlement. This scrutiny may extend beyond our pending foreclosure matters to issues arising out of alleged irregularities with respect to previously completed foreclosure activities. The current environment of heightened regulatory scrutiny may subject us to inquiries or investigations that could significantly adversely affect our reputation and result in material costs to us. 
  Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. 
  Mortgage notes, assignments or other documents are often required to be maintained and are often necessary to enforce mortgage loans. There has been significant public commentary regarding the common industry practice of recording mortgages in the name of MERS, as nominee on behalf of the note holder, and whether securitization trusts own the loans purported to be conveyed to them and have valid liens securing those loans. We currently use the MERS system for a substantial portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originate, including loans that have been sold to investors or securitization trusts. A component of the OCC consent order requires significant changes in the  

manner in which we service loans that identify MERS as the mortgagee. Additionally, certain local and state governments have commenced legal actions against us, MERS and other MERS members, questioning the validity of the MERS model. Other challenges have also been made to the process for transferring mortgage loans to securitization trusts, asserting that having a mortgagee of record that is different than the holder of the mortgage note could  break the chain of title  and cloud the ownership of the loan. In order to foreclose on a mortgage loan, in certain cases it may be necessary or prudent for an assignment of the mortgage to be made to the holder of the note, which in the case of a mortgage held in the name of MERS as nominee would need to be completed by a MERS signing officer. As such, our practice is to obtain assignments of mortgages from MERS prior to instituting foreclosure. If certain required documents are missing or defective, or if the use of MERS is found not to be valid, we could be obligated to cure certain defects or in some circumstances be subject to additional costs and expenses. Our use of MERS as nominee for the mortgage may also create reputational risks for us. 
  Impact of Foreclosure Delays 
  Foreclosure delays impact our default-related servicing costs. We believe default-related servicing costs peaked during the third quarter of   2012   and began to decline in the fourth quarter of   2012  , and we anticipate that this decline will accelerate in   2013  . However, unexpected foreclosure delays in 2013 could impact the rate of decline. Default-related servicing costs include costs related to resources needed for implementing new servicing standards mandated for the industry, including as part of the National Mortgage Settlement, other operational changes and operational costs due to delayed foreclosures and do not include mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays. 
  Other areas of our operations are also impacted by foreclosure delays. In 2012, we recorded   $867 million   of mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays, including   $258 million   related to compensatory fees as part of the FNMA Settlement. It is also possible that the delays in foreclosure sales may result in additional costs and expenses, including costs associated with the maintenance of properties or possible home price declines while foreclosures are delayed. Finally, the time to complete foreclosure sales may continue to be protracted, which may result in a greater number of nonperforming loans and increased servicing advances, and may impact the collectability of such advances and the value of our MSR asset, MBS and real estate owned properties. Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of disagreements with counterparties, delays in foreclosure sales beyond those currently anticipated, and any issues that may arise out of alleged irregularities in our foreclosure process could significantly increase the costs associated with our mortgage operations. 
  Mortgage-related Settlements   Servicing Matters 
  In connection with the BNY Mellon Settlement, BANA has agreed to implement certain servicing changes. The Trustee and BANA have agreed to clarify and conform certain servicing standards related to loss mitigation. In particular, the BNY Mellon Settlement clarifies that it is permissible to apply the same loss mitigation strategies to the Covered Trusts as are applied to BANA affiliates   

HFI portfolios. This portion of the agreement was effective in the second quarter of 2011 and is not conditioned on final court approval.  
  BANA also agreed to transfer the servicing rights related to certain high-risk loans to qualified subservicers on a schedule that began with the signing of the BNY Mellon Settlement. This servicing transfer protocol will reduce the servicing fees payable to BANA in the future. Upon final court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement, failure to meet the established benchmarking standards for loans not in subservicing arrangements can trigger the payment of agreed-upon fees. Additionally, we and legacy Countrywide have agreed to work to resolve with the Trustee certain mortgage documentation issues related to the enforceability of mortgages in foreclosure and to reimburse the related Covered Trust for any loss if BANA is unable to foreclose on the mortgage and the Covered Trust is not made whole by a title policy because of these issues. These agreements will terminate if final court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement is not obtained, although we could still have exposure under the pooling and servicing agreements related to the mortgages in the Covered Trusts for these issues. 
  In connection with the National Mortgage Settlement, BANA has agreed to implement certain additional servicing changes. The uniform servicing standards established under the National Mortgage Settlement are broadly consistent with the residential mortgage servicing practices imposed by the 2011 OCC Consent Order; however, they are more prescriptive and cover a broader range of our residential mortgage servicing activities. These standards are intended to strengthen procedural safeguards and documentation requirements associated with foreclosure, bankruptcy, and loss mitigation activities, as well as addressing the imposition of fees and the integrity of documentation, with a goal of ensuring greater transparency for borrowers. These uniform servicing standards also obligate us to implement compliance processes reasonably designed to provide assurance of the achievement of these objectives. Compliance with the uniform servicing standards will be assessed by a monitor based on the measurement of outcomes with respect to these objectives. Implementation of these uniform servicing standards is expected to contribute to elevated costs associated with the servicing process, but is not expected to result in material delays or dislocation in the performance of our mortgage servicing obligations, including the completion of foreclosures.  
    Regulatory Matters 
  See   Item 1A. Risk Factors   and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information regarding regulatory matters and risks.  
  Financial Reform Act 
  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act), which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, enacted sweeping financial regulatory reform and has altered and will continue to alter the way in which we conduct certain businesses, increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Many aspects of the Financial Reform Act remain subject to final rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the precise impact on the Corporation, our customers or the financial services industry.  

Debit Interchange Fees 
  On June 29, 2011, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule with respect to the Durbin Amendment effective on October 1, 2011 which, among other things, established a regulatory cap for many types of debit interchange transactions to equal no more than 21 cents plus five bps of the value of the transaction. The Federal Reserve also adopted a rule to allow a debit card issuer to recover one cent per transaction for fraud prevention purposes if the issuer complies with certain fraud-related requirements, with which we are currently in compliance. The Federal Reserve also approved rules governing routing and exclusivity, requiring issuers to offer two unaffiliated networks for routing transactions on each debit or prepaid product, which became effective April 1, 2012. For additional information on the impact to revenue, see   CBB     on page   38  . 
  Limitations on Proprietary Trading; Sponsorship and Investment in Hedge Funds and Private Equity Funds 
  On October 11, 2011, the Federal Reserve, OCC, FDIC and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), representing four of the five regulatory agencies charged with promulgating regulations implementing limitations on proprietary trading as well as the sponsorship of or investment in hedge funds and private equity funds (the Volcker Rule) established by the Financial Reform Act, released for comment proposed implementing regulations. On January 11, 2012, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the fifth agency, released for comment its proposed regulations under the Volcker Rule. The proposed regulations include clarifications to the definition of proprietary trading and distinctions between permitted and prohibited activities. However, in light of the complexity of the proposed regulations and the large volume of comments received (the proposal requested comments on over 1,300 questions on 400 different topics), it is not possible to predict the content of the final regulations or when they will be issued.  
  The statutory provisions of the Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012 and gave financial institutions two years from the effective date, with the possibility for extensions for certain investments, to bring activities and investments into compliance with the statutory provisions and final regulations. Although   Global Markets   exited its stand-alone proprietary trading business as of June 30, 2011 in anticipation of the Volcker Rule and to further our initiative to optimize our balance sheet, the ultimate impact of the Volcker Rule on us remains uncertain as the regulations implementing the Volcker Rule are not final. However, based on the contents of the proposed regulations, it is possible the Volcker Rule implementation could limit or restrict our remaining trading activities. If exemptions in the Volcker Rule and the proposed regulations are not available, the Volcker Rule could also limit or restrict our ability to sponsor and hold ownership interests in hedge funds, private equity funds, commodity pools and other subsidiary operations. Additionally, the Volcker Rule could increase our operational and compliance costs, reduce our trading revenues, and adversely affect our results of operations. The date on which final regulations will be issued is currently uncertain. For additional information about our trading business, see   Global Markets   on page   48  . 

Derivatives 
  The Financial Reform Act includes measures to broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. The Financial Reform Act grants the CFTC and the SEC substantial new authority and requires numerous rulemakings by these agencies.   Swap dealers conducting dealing activity with U.S. persons above a specified dollar threshold were required to register with the CFTC on or before December 31, 2012.   We registered BANA, Merrill Lynch Commodities Inc., Merrill Lynch Capital Services Inc., Merrill Lynch Financial Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch International and Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited as swap dealers on December 31, 2012. Upon registration, swap dealers became subject to additional CFTC rules relating to business conduct and reporting, and will continue to become subject to additional CFTC rules as and when such rules take effect. Those rules include, but are not limited to, measures that require clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives, new capital and margin requirements for certain market participants, and additional reporting requirements for derivatives under the jurisdiction of the CFTC. The CFTC also granted relief from some of the rules that would have become effective during the fourth quarter of 2012, either completely suspending or delaying the application of some requirements. 
  While the CFTC has provided temporary exemptive relief from application of derivatives requirements of the Financial Reform Act for certain non-U.S. derivatives activity, there remains some uncertainty as to how the derivatives requirements of the Financial Reform Act will apply to non-U.S. derivatives activity because the CFTC has not yet adopted final cross-border guidance.   The CFTC has completed much of its other rulemakings, with the exception of final margin, capital and exchange trading rules, while the SEC has finalized a small number of clearing-related rules.   The ultimate impact of the derivatives regulations that have not yet been finalized and the time it will take to comply remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose additional operational and compliance costs on us and may require us to restructure certain businesses and may negatively impact our results of operations. 
  FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessments 
  The FDIC has broad discretionary authority to increase assessments on large and highly complex institutions on a case by case basis. Any future increases in required deposit insurance premiums or other bank industry fees could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  Resolution Planning 
  The Federal Reserve and the FDIC require that the Corporation and other bank holding companies (BHCs) with assets of $50 billion or more, as well as companies designated as systemically important by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, submit annually their plans for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure.  
  A resolution plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for the orderly resolution of the BHC and material entities pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code under one or more hypothetical scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance. If the FDIC and the Federal Reserve determine that our plan is not credible and we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner, the FDIC and  

the Federal Reserve may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on growth, activities or operations of the Corporation. We submitted our initial plan in 2012, which is to be updated annually. 
  Similarly, in the U.K., the Financial Services Authority (FSA) has issued proposed rules requiring the submission of significant information about certain U.K. incorporated subsidiaries and other financial institutions, as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K. (including information on intra-group dependencies, legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) to allow the FSA to develop resolution plans. As a result of the FSA review, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could impose operational costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain business and subsidiaries.  
  Orderly Liquidation Authority 
  Under the Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such systemically important financial institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could invoke a new form of resolution authority, the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 
  The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Macroprudential systemic protection is the primary objective of the orderly liquidation authority, subject to minimum threshold protections for creditors. Accordingly, in certain circumstances under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors  consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC s outstanding equity. For example, the FDIC could follow a  single point of entry  approach and replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC.   Additionally, under the orderly liquidation authority, amounts owed to the U.S. government generally receive a statutory payment priority  . 
  Credit Risk Retention 
  On March 29, 2011, federal regulators jointly issued a proposed rule regarding credit risk retention that would, among other things, require sponsors to retain at least five percent of the credit risk of the assets underlying certain ABS and MBS securitizations and would limit the ability to transfer or hedge that credit risk. The proposed rule as currently written would likely have an adverse impact on our ability to engage in many types of the MBS and ABS securitizations conducted in   CRES  ,   Global Markets   and other business segments, impose additional operational and compliance costs on us, and negatively influence the value, liquidity and transferability of ABS or MBS, loans and other assets. However, it remains unclear what requirements will be included in  

the final rule and what the ultimate impact of the final rule will be on our   CRES  ,   Global Markets   and other business segments or on our results of operations. 
  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
  The Financial Reform Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which principally regulates the offering of consumer financial products or services under federal consumer financial laws, and which has commenced its supervisory oversight. Certain federal consumer financial laws to which the Corporation is subject including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Electronic Fund Transfers Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Truth in Lending and Truth in Savings Acts are enforced by the CFPB, subject to certain statutory limitations. Through its rulemaking authority, the CFPB has promulgated several proposed and final rules that will affect our consumer businesses. Among these initiatives is a recently-issued final rule implementing sections of the Financial Reform Act establishing  ability to repay  and  qualified mortgage  standards under the Truth in Lending Act. In addition, the CFPB issued a final rule establishing mortgage loan servicing standards through amendments to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The CFPB has also proposed rules addressing items such as remittance transfer services, appraisal requirements and loan originator compensation requirements. The Corporation is evaluating the various CFPB rules and proposals and devoting substantial compliance, legal and operational business resources to facilitate compliance with these rules by their respective effective dates. In addition, the Corporation has cooperated with the CFPB on several industry-related information collection requests involving consumer financial products and services, including overdraft fees and practices. 
  Certain Other Provisions 
  The Financial Reform Act also expands the role of state regulators in enforcing consumer protection requirements over banks and disqualifies trust preferred securities and other hybrid capital securities from Tier 1 capital. Many of the provisions under the Financial Reform Act have only begun to be implemented or remain to be implemented in the future and will be subject both to further rulemaking and the discretion of applicable regulatory bodies. For additional information regarding regulatory capital and other rules proposed by federal regulators, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital Changes   on page   72  .  
  The Financial Reform Act will continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings through fee reductions, higher costs and imposition of new restrictions on us. The Financial Reform Act may also continue to have a material adverse impact on the value of certain assets and liabilities held on our balance sheet. The ultimate impact of the Financial Reform Act on our businesses will depend on regulatory interpretation and rulemaking, as well as the success of any of our actions to mitigate the negative impact of certain provisions. 
  Transactions with Affiliates 
  The terms of certain of our OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements of the Corporation provide that upon the occurrence of certain specified events, such as a change in our credit ratings, Merrill Lynch and other non-bank affiliates may be required to provide additional collateral or to provide other remedies, or our counterparties may have the right to terminate  

or otherwise diminish our rights under these contracts or agreements. In the event of further downgrades of the credit ratings of the Corporation and other non-bank affiliates, we may engage in discussions with certain derivative and other counterparties regarding their rights under these agreements, including potentially naming new counterparties. Our ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements to meet counterparties  requests may be subject to certain limitations, including counterparty willingness, regulatory limitations on naming BANA as the new counterparty, and the type or amount of collateral required. It is possible that such limitations on our ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements, including naming BANA as the new counterparty, could adversely affect our results of operations.  
  Other Matters 
  The Corporation has established guidelines and policies for managing capital across its subsidiaries. The guidance for the Corporation s subsidiaries with regulatory capital requirements, including branch operations of banking subsidiaries, requires each entity to maintain satisfactory capital levels. This includes setting internal capital targets for the U.S. bank subsidiaries to exceed  well-capitalized  levels. The U.K. has adopted increased capital and liquidity requirements for local financial institutions, including regulated U.K. subsidiaries of non-U.K. BHCs and other financial institutions as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K. In addition, the U.K. has proposed the creation and production of recovery and resolution plans, commonly referred to as living wills, by significant regulated legal entities.  
    Managing Risk 
  Overview 
  Risk is inherent in every material business activity that we undertake. Our business exposes us to strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. We must manage these risks to maximize our long-term results by ensuring the integrity of our assets and the quality of our earnings. 
  Strategic risk is the risk that results from adverse business decisions, ineffective or inappropriate business plans, or failure to respond to changes in the competitive environment, business cycles, customer preferences, product obsolescence, regulatory environment, business strategy execution, and/or other inherent risks of the business including reputational risk. Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower s or counterparty s inability to meet its obligations. Market risk is the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions such as interest rate movements. Liquidity risk is the inability to meet contractual and contingent financial obligations, on- or off-balance sheet, as they come due. Compliance risk is the risk that arises from the failure to adhere to laws, rules, regulations, or internal policies and procedures. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events. Reputational risk is the potential that negative publicity regarding an organization s conduct or business practices will adversely affect its profitability, operations or customer base, or result in costly litigation or require other measures. Reputational risk is evaluated along with all of the risk categories and throughout the risk management process, and as such is not discussed separately herein. The following sections,   Strategic Risk  

Management   and   Capital Management   both on page   70  ,   Liquidity Risk   on page   75  ,   Credit Risk Management   on page   79  ,   Market Risk Management   on page   113  ,   Compliance Risk Management   and   Operational Risk Management   both on page   120  , address in more detail the specific procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of risk that we manage. 
  In choosing when and how to take risks, we evaluate our capacity for risk and seek to protect our brand and reputation, our financial flexibility, the value of our assets and the strategic potential of the Corporation. We intend to maintain a strong and flexible financial position. We also intend to focus on maintaining our relevance and value to customers, employees and shareholders. As part of our efforts to achieve these objectives, we continue to build a comprehensive risk management culture and to implement governance and control measures to strengthen that culture. 
  We take a comprehensive approach to risk management. We have a defined risk framework and clearly articulated risk appetite which is approved annually by the Corporation s Board of Directors (the Board). Risk management planning is integrated with strategic, financial and customer/client planning so that goals and responsibilities are aligned across the organization. Risk is managed in a systematic manner by focusing on the Corporation as a whole as well as managing risk across the enterprise and within individual business units, products, services and transactions, and across all geographic locations. We maintain a governance structure that delineates the responsibilities for risk management activities, as well as governance and oversight of those activities. 
  Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the risk-adjusted returns of each business segment. Management reviews and approves strategic and financial operating plans, and recommends to the Board for approval a financial plan annually. By allocating economic capital to and establishing a risk appetite for a business segment, we seek to effectively manage the ability to take on risk. Economic capital is assigned to each business segment using a risk-adjusted methodology incorporating each segment s stand-alone credit, market, interest rate and operational risk components, and is used to measure risk-adjusted returns. We regularly evaluate these allocations as part of our overall governance processes as the businesses and the economic environment in which we operate continue to evolve. 
  In addition to reputational considerations, businesses operate within their credit, market, compliance and operational risk standards and limits in order to adhere to the risk appetite. These limits are based on analyses of risk and reward in each business. Executive management is responsible for tracking and reporting performance measurements as well as any exceptions to guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when appropriate, monitor financial performance, execution of the strategic and financial operating plans, compliance with the risk appetite and the adequacy of internal controls. 
  The Board has completed its review of the Risk Framework and the Risk Appetite Statement for the Corporation, and both the Risk Framework and Risk Appetite Statement were approved in January 2013. The Risk Framework defines the accountability of the Corporation and its employees and the Risk Appetite Statement defines the parameters under which we will take risk. Both documents are intended to enable us to maximize our long-term results and ensure the integrity of our assets and the quality of our earnings. The Risk Framework is designed to be used by our employees to understand risk management activities, including  

their individual roles and accountabilities. It also defines how risk management is integrated into our core business processes, and it defines the risk management governance structure, including management s involvement. The risk management responsibilities of the businesses, governance and control functions, and Corporate Audit are also clearly defined. The risk management process includes four critical elements: identify and measure risk, mitigate and control risk, monitor and test risk, and report and review risk, and is applied across all business activities to enable an integrated and comprehensive review of risk consistent with the Risk Appetite Statement. 
  Risk Management Processes and Methods 
  To support our corporate goals and objectives, risk appetite, and business and risk strategies, we maintain a governance structure that delineates the responsibilities for risk management activities, as well as governance and oversight of those activities, by management and the Board. All employees have accountability for risk management. Each employee s risk management responsibilities falls into one of three major categories: businesses, governance and control, and Corporate Audit. 
  Business managers and employees are accountable for identifying, managing and escalating attention to all risks in their business units, including existing and emerging risks. Business managers must ensure that their business activities are conducted within the risk appetite defined by management and approved by the Board. The limits and controls for each business must be consistent with the Risk Appetite Statement. Employees in client and customer facing businesses are responsible for day-to-day business activities, including developing and delivering profitable products and services, fulfilling customer requests and maintaining desirable customer relationships. These employees are accountable for conducting their daily work in accordance with policies and procedures. It is the responsibility of each employee to protect the Corporation and defend the interests of the shareholders. 
  Governance and control functions are comprised of Global Risk Management, Global Compliance, Legal and the enterprise control functions and are tasked with independently overseeing and managing risk activities. Global Compliance (which includes Regulatory Relations) and Legal report to the Chief Legal, Compliance and Regulatory Relations Executive. Enterprise control functions consist of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Group, Global Technology and Operations, Global Human Resources, and Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs.  
  Global Risk Management is led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO). The CRO leads senior management in managing risk, is independent from the Corporation s businesses and enterprise control functions, and maintains sufficient autonomy to develop and implement meaningful risk management measures. This position serves to protect the Corporation and its shareholders. The CRO reports to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and is the management team lead or a participant in Board-level risk governance committees. The CRO has the mandate to ensure that appropriate risk management practices are in place, and are effective and consistent with our overall business strategy and risk appetite. Global Risk Management is comprised of two types of risk teams, Enterprise risk teams and independent business risk teams, which report to the CRO and are independent from the business and enterprise control functions. 

Enterprise risk teams are responsible for setting and establishing enterprise policies, programs and standards, assessing program adherence, providing enterprise-level risk oversight, and reporting and monitoring systemic and emerging risk issues. In addition, the enterprise risk teams are responsible for monitoring and ensuring that risk limits are reasonable and consistent with the risk appetite. These risk teams also carry out risk-based oversight of the enterprise control functions. 
  Independent business risk teams are responsible for establishing policies, limits, standards, controls, metrics and thresholds within the defined corporate standards for the businesses to which they are aligned. The independent business risk teams are also responsible for ensuring that risk limits and standards are reasonable and consistent with the risk appetite. 
  Enterprise control functions are independent of the businesses and have risk governance and control responsibilities for enterprise programs. In this role, they are responsible for setting policies, standards and limits; providing risk reporting; monitoring systemic risk issues including existing and emerging; and implementing procedures and controls at the enterprise and business levels for their respective control functions.  
  The Corporate Audit function maintains independence from the businesses and governance and control functions by reporting directly to the Audit Committee of the Board. Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit also provides an independent assessment of the Corporation s management and internal control systems. Corporate Audit activities are designed to provide reasonable assurance that resources are adequately protected; significant financial, managerial and operating information is materially complete, accurate and reliable; and employees  actions are in compliance with the Corporation s policies, standards, procedures, and applicable laws and regulations. 
  To assist the Corporation in achieving its goals and objectives, risk appetite, and business and risk strategies, we utilize a risk management process that is applied across the execution of all business activities. This risk management process, which is an integral part of our Risk Framework, enables the Corporation to review risk in an integrated and comprehensive manner across all risk categories and make strategic and business decisions based on that comprehensive view. Corporate goals and objectives are established by management, and management reflects these goals and objectives in our risk appetite which is approved by the Board and serves as a key driver for setting business and risk strategy. 
  One of the key tools of the risk management process is the use of Risk and Control Self Assessments (RCSAs). RCSAs are the primary method for facilitating the management of business environment and internal control factor data. The end-to-end RCSA process incorporates risk identification and assessment of the control environment; monitoring, reporting and escalating risk; quality assurance and data validation; and integration with the risk appetite. The RCSA process also incorporates documentation by either the business or governance and control functions of the business environment, risks, controls, and monitoring and reporting. This results in a comprehensive risk management view that enables understanding of and action on operational risks and controls for all of our processes, products, activities and systems. 

The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of our overall risk management process. Corporate culture and the actions of our employees are also critical to effective risk management. Through our Code of Ethics, we set a high standard for our employees. The Code of Ethics provides a framework for all of our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a strong and comprehensive risk management culture through communications, training, policies, procedures, and organizational roles and responsibilities. Additionally, we continue to strengthen the link between the employee performance management process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward enterprise-wide risk goals. 
  Enterprise-wide Stress Testing 
  As a part of our core risk management practices, we conduct enterprise-wide stress tests on a periodic basis to better understand balance sheet, earnings, capital and liquidity sensitivities to certain economic and business scenarios, including economic and market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These enterprise-wide stress tests provide illustrative hypothetical potential impacts from our risk profile on our balance sheet, earnings, capital and liquidity and serve as a key component of our capital, liquidity and risk management practices. Scenarios are selected by the Asset Liability and Market Risk Committee (ALMRC) and approved by the CFO and the CRO. Impacts to each business from each scenario are then determined and analyzed, primarily by leveraging the models and processes utilized in everyday management routines. Impacts are assessed along with potential mitigating actions that may be taken. Analysis from such stress scenarios is compiled for and reviewed through our Chief Financial Officer Risk Committee (CFORC), ALMRC and the Board s Enterprise Risk Committee. 
  Contingency Planning Routines 
  We have developed and maintain contingency plans that prepare us in advance to respond in the event of potential adverse outcomes and scenarios. These contingency planning routines include capital contingency planning, liquidity contingency funding plans, recovery planning and enterprise resiliency, and provide for monitoring, escalation routines, and response plans. Contingency response plans are designed to enable us to increase capital, access funding sources, and reduce risk through consideration of potential actions that includes asset sales, business sales, capital or debt issuances, and other de-risking strategies.  
  Board Oversight of Risk 
  The Board, comprised of a substantial majority of independent directors, including an independent Chairman of the Board, oversees the management of the Corporation through a governance structure that includes Board committees and management committees. The Board s standing committees that oversee the management of the majority of the risks faced by the Corporation include the Audit and Enterprise Risk Committees, comprised of independent directors, and the Credit Committee, comprised of non-management directors. This governance structure is designed to align the interests of the Board and management with those of our stockholders and to foster integrity throughout the Corporation.  

The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees with the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation. 
  
            (1)     
    Chart is not comprehensive; there may be additional subcommittees not represented in this chart. This presentation does not include committees for other legal entities. 
               (2)     
    Reports through the Audit Committee for compliance and through the Enterprise Risk Committee for operational and reputational risk. 
               (3)     
    Reports to the CEO and CFO with oversight by the Audit Committee. 
       Our Board s Audit, Credit and Enterprise Risk Committees have the principal responsibility for assisting the Board with enterprise-wide oversight of the Corporation s management and handling of risk. 
  Our Audit Committee assists the Board in the oversight of, among other things, the integrity of our consolidated financial statements, our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and the overall effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Our Audit Committee also, taking into consideration the Board s allocation of the review of risk among various committees of the Board, discusses with management guidelines and policies to govern the process by which risk assessment and risk management are undertaken, including the assessment of our major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. 
  Our Credit Committee oversees, among other things, the identification and management of our credit exposures on an enterprise-wide basis, our responses to trends affecting those exposures, the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses and our credit related policies.  

Our Enterprise Risk Committee oversees, among other things, our identification of, management of and planning for material risks on an enterprise-wide basis, including market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, operational risk and reputational risk. Our Enterprise Risk Committee also oversees our capital management and liquidity planning. 
  Each of these committees regularly reports to our Board on risk-related matters within the committee s responsibilities, which collectively provides our Board with integrated, thorough insight about our management of our enterprise-wide risks. At meetings of our Audit, Credit and Enterprise Risk Committees and our Board, directors receive updates from management regarding enterprise risk management, including our performance against our risk appetite.  
  Executive management develops for Board approval the Corporation s Risk Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and financial operating plans. Management monitors, and the Board oversees, through the Credit, Enterprise Risk and Audit Committees, financial performance, execution of the strategic and financial operating plans, compliance with the risk appetite and the adequacy of internal controls. 

Strategic Risk Management 
  Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. It is the risk that results from adverse business decisions, ineffective or inappropriate business plans, or failure to respond to changes in the competitive environment, business cycles, customer preferences, product obsolescence, regulatory environment, business strategy execution and/or other inherent risks of the business. Other inherent risks of the business include reputational and operational risk. In the financial services industry, strategic risk is elevated due to changing customer, competitive and regulatory environments. Our appetite for strategic risk is assessed within the context of the strategic plan, with strategic risks selectively and carefully considered in the context of the evolving marketplace. Strategic risk is managed in the context of our overall financial condition and assessed, managed and acted on by the CEO and executive management team. Significant strategic actions, such as material acquisitions or capital actions, require review and approval by the Board. 
  Executive management approves a strategic plan each year. Annually, executive management develops a financial operating plan that implements the strategic goals for that year, which is reviewed and approved by the Board. With oversight by the Board, executive management ensures consistency is applied while executing the Corporation s strategic plan, core operating tenets and risk appetite. The following are assessed in their reviews: forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the current risk profile, current capital and liquidity requirements, staffing levels and changes required to support the plan, stress testing results, and other qualitative factors such as market growth rates and peer analysis. At the business level, as we introduce new products, we monitor their performance to evaluate expectations (e.g., for earnings and returns on capital). With oversight by the Board, executive management performs similar analyses throughout the year, and evaluates changes to the financial forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positions as deemed appropriate to balance and optimize between achieving the targeted risk appetite, shareholder returns and maintaining the targeted financial strength. 
  We use proprietary models to measure the capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks. The economic capital assigned to each business is based on its unique risk exposures. With oversight by the Board, executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of each business in approving strategic and financial operating plans. The businesses use economic capital to define business strategies, price products and transactions, and evaluate client profitability. For additional information on how this measure is calculated, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 
    Capital Management 
  The Corporation manages its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to support our business activities and maintain capital, risk and risk appetite commensurate with one another. Additionally, we seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times including under adverse conditions, take advantage of organic growth opportunities, maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for our subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital requirements. 

To determine the appropriate level of capital, we assess the results of our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), the current economic and market environment, and feedback from key stakeholders including investors, rating agencies and regulators. Based upon this analysis, we set guidelines for capital ratios to maintain an adequate capital position, including in severe adverse economic scenarios. Management and the Board annually approve a comprehensive capital plan which documents the ICAAP and related results, analysis and support for the capital guidelines, and planned capital actions. 
  The ICAAP incorporates capital forecasts, stress test results, economic capital, qualitative risk assessments and assessment of regulatory changes. Throughout the year, we generate regulatory capital and economic capital forecasts that are aligned to the most recent earnings, balance sheet and risk forecasts. We utilize quarterly stress tests to assess the potential impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, capital and liquidity of a variety of stress scenarios. We perform qualitative risk assessments to identify and assess material risks not fully captured in the forecasts, stress tests or economic capital. We regularly assess the capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements. Management regularly assesses ICAAP results and provides documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of the capital guidelines and capital position to the Board or its committees. 
  Capital management is integrated into our risk and governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the development of the strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits. Economic capital is allocated to each business unit and used to perform risk-adjusted return analyses at the business unit, client relationship and transaction levels. 
  Regulatory Capital 
  As a financial services holding company, we are subject to the risk-based capital guidelines (Basel 1) issued by federal banking regulators. At   December 31, 2012  , we operated banking activities primarily under two charters: BANA and FIA Card Services, N.A. (FIA). Under these guidelines, the Corporation and its affiliated banking entities measure capital adequacy based on Tier 1 common capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2 capital). Capital ratios are calculated by dividing each capital amount by risk-weighted assets. Additionally, Tier 1 capital is divided by adjusted quarterly average total assets to derive the Tier 1 leverage ratio. 
  Tier 1 capital is calculated as the sum of  core capital elements,  the principal components of which are qualifying common shareholders  equity and qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Also included in Tier 1 capital are qualifying trust preferred securities (Trust Securities), hybrid securities and qualifying noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries which are subject to the rules governing  restricted core capital elements.  Goodwill, other disallowed intangible assets, disallowed deferred tax assets and the cumulative changes in fair value of all financial liabilities accounted for under the fair value option that are included in retained earnings and are attributable to changes in the company s own creditworthiness are deducted from the sum of the core capital elements. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 plus supplementary Tier 2 capital elements such as qualifying subordinated debt, a limited portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses, and a portion of net unrealized gains on AFS marketable equity securities. Tier 1 common capital is not  

an official regulatory ratio, but was introduced by the Federal Reserve during the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program in 2009. Tier 1 common capital is Tier 1 capital less preferred stock, Trust Securities, hybrid securities and qualifying noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries. 
  Risk-weighted assets are calculated for credit risk for all on- and off-balance sheet credit exposures and for market risk on trading assets and liabilities, including derivative exposures. Credit risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning a prescribed risk-weight to all on-balance sheet assets and to the credit equivalent amount of certain off-balance sheet exposures. The risk-weight is defined in the regulatory rules based upon the obligor or guarantor type and collateral if applicable. Off-balance sheet exposures include financial guarantees, unfunded lending commitments, letters of credit and derivatives. Market risk-weighted assets are calculated using risk models for the trading account positions, including all foreign exchange and commodity positions regardless of the applicable accounting guidance. Under Basel 1 there are no risk-weighted assets calculated for operational risk. Any assets that are a direct deduction from the computation of capital are excluded from risk-weighted assets and adjusted average total assets consistent with regulatory guidance. 
  Certain corporate-sponsored trust companies which issue Trust Securities are not consolidated. In accordance with Federal Reserve guidance effective March 31, 2011, Trust Securities continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital with revised quantitative limits. As a result, the Corporation includes Trust Securities in Basel 1 Tier 1 capital. The Financial Reform Act includes a provision under which Trust Securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital. Under one of three notices of proposed rulemaking on Basel 3 issued by U.S. banking regulatory agencies, the Corporation s previously issued and outstanding Trust Securities in the aggregate qualifying amount of   $6.2 billion   (approximately   51   bps of Tier 1 capital) at   December 31, 2012  , will not qualify as Tier 1 capital. While not yet final, the proposed rules provide a three-year transition period in which the exclusion of Trust Securities from Tier 1 capital will be phased in incrementally each year. 
  The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the rules governing the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The CCAR is the central element to the Federal Reserve s approach to ensuring large BHCs have adequate capital and robust processes for managing their capital. In January 2012, we submitted our 2012 capital plan, and received results on March 13, 2012. The Federal Reserve s stress scenario projections for the Corporation, based on the 2012 capital plan, estimated a minimum Basel 1 Tier 1 common capital ratio of 5.9 percent under severe adverse economic conditions with all proposed capital actions through the end of 2013, exceeding the five percent reference rate for all institutions involved in the CCAR. The capital  

plan submitted by the Corporation to the Federal Reserve did not include a request to return capital to stockholders in 2012 above the current dividend rate. The Federal Reserve did not object to our 2012 capital plan. On January 7, 2013, we submitted our 2013 capital plan and related supervisory stress tests. The Federal Reserve has announced its intention to notify the 2013 CCAR participants of the supervisory stress test results on March 7, 2013 and the capital plan on March 14, 2013. 
  For additional information on these and other regulatory requirements, see   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Capital Composition and Ratios 
  Under Basel 1, Tier 1 common capital   increased     $6.7 billion   in   2012   to   $133.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012  . The increase was primarily driven by earnings eligible to be included in capital, which positively impacted the Tier 1 common capital ratio by approximately 59 bps, including the impact of repurchases of certain of our debt and Trust Securities. The Tier 1 common capital ratio also benefited seven bps from the issuance of common stock in lieu of cash for a portion of employee incentive compensation. Total capital   decreased     $18.4 billion   in   2012   to   $196.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012   primarily due to a reduction in subordinated debt as a result of redemptions and a reduction in Trust Securities from redemptions and exchanges. 
  Risk-weighted assets   decreased     $78.5 billion   in   2012   to   $1,206 billion   at   December 31, 2012  . The decrease was primarily driven by decreases in derivatives, letters of credit and other assets. These decreases positively impacted Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and Total capital ratios by 64 bps, 78 bps and 102 bps, respectively. The Tier 1 leverage ratio   decreased     16   bps in   2012   primarily driven by the decrease in Tier 1 capital. 
  Table 13   presents Bank of America Corporation s capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 1 at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  .  

(1)   
    Reflects adjusted average total assets for the three months ended   December 31, 2012   and 
     2011  . 

Table 14   presents the capital composition at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Represents loss on structured liabilities, net-of-tax, that is excluded from Tier 1 common capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital for regulatory capital purposes. 
       Regulatory Capital Changes 
  At December 31, 2012, we measured and reported our capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 1. We manage regulatory capital to adhere to internal capital guidelines and regulatory standards of capital adequacy based on our current understanding of the rules and the application of such rules to our business as currently conducted. See   Capital Management   on page   70   for additional information.  
  In June 2012, U.S. banking regulators issued the Market Risk Final Rule that amends the Basel 1 Market Risk rules (Market Risk Final Rule) effective January 1, 2013. The Market Risk Final Rule introduces new measures of market risk, a charge related to a stressed Value-at-Risk (VaR), an incremental risk charge and a comprehensive risk measure, as well as other technical modifications. As of December 31, 2012, the estimated impact of the Market Risk Final Rule would have been a 68 bps decrease in the Tier 1 common capital ratio to 10.38 percent as a result of a $78.8 billion increase in risk-weighted assets for market risk exposures. 
  The regulatory capital rules continue to expand and evolve. In December 2007, U.S. banking regulators published final Basel 2 rules (Basel 2). We measure and report our capital ratios and related information under Basel 2 on a confidential basis to U.S. banking regulators during the required parallel period, during which we provide the U.S. banking regulators both Basel 1 and Basel 2 related information in parallel. The parallel period will continue until we receive regulatory approval to exit parallel reporting and subsequently begin publicly reporting our Basel 2 regulatory capital results and related disclosures. 
  In June 2012, U.S. banking regulators issued three notices of proposed rulemaking (collectively, the Basel 3 NPRs) which, if adopted as proposed, would materially change Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and Total capital calculations. The Basel 3 NPRs also introduce new minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements,  

expand and modify the calculation of risk-weighted assets for credit and market risk (the Advanced Approach) and introduce a Standardized Approach for the calculation of risk-weighted assets, which would replace Basel 1 and provide a floor for minimum, adequately capitalized regulatory capital requirements under the Prompt Corrective Action framework. The Prompt Corrective Action framework establishes categories of capitalization, including  well-capitalized,  based on regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization. No mandatory actions are required under the Prompt Corrective Action framework for  well-capitalized  banking entities. 
  Under the Basel 3 NPRs, Trust Securities will be phased out of Tier 1 capital in equal annual installments over a three-year transition period. Many of the changes to the composition of regulatory capital are subject to a transition period where the impact is recognized in 20 percent increments, phased in incrementally each year over a five-year period. The phase-in period for the new minimum capital requirements and related buffers is proposed to occur from the effective date of the Basel 3 NPRs through 2019. On November 9, 2012, U.S. banking regulators announced that they did not expect any of the Basel 3 NPRs to become effective January 1, 2013. Final rules for Basel 3 have not yet been issued by U.S. banking regulators.  
  Under the Basel 3 NPRs we will be subject to the Advanced Approach for measuring risk-weighted assets (Basel 3 Advanced Approach) when finalized and implemented. The Basel 3 Advanced Approach also requires approval by the U.S. regulatory agencies of analytical models used as part of capital measurement. If these models are not approved, it would likely lead to an increase in our risk-weighted assets, which in some cases could be significant. The Basel 3 Advanced Approach, if adopted as proposed, is expected to substantially increase our capital requirements as discussed below. 

In 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee) issued proposed guidance on capital requirements for global, systemically important financial institutions, of which we are one, including the methodology for measuring systemic importance, the additional capital required (the SIFI buffer), and the arrangements by which the guidance will be phased in. As proposed, the SIFI buffer would increase minimum capital requirements for Tier 1 common capital from   one percent   to   2.5 percent  , and in certain circumstances,   3.5 percent  . As of December 31, 2012, we estimate our SIFI buffer would have been 1.5 percent, in line with the Financial Stability Board s report,  Update of Group of Global Systemically Important Banks,  issued on November 1, 2012. U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued proposed or final rules related to the SIFI buffer. 
  On December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement enhanced supervisory and prudential requirements, and the early remediation requirements established under the Financial Reform Act. The enhanced standards include liquidity standards, requirements for overall risk management, single-counterparty credit limits, stress test requirements and a debt-to-equity limit for certain companies determined to pose a threat to financial stability. The final rules, when adopted and fully implemented, are likely to influence our regulatory capital and liquidity planning process, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on us. 
  Preparing for the implementation of the new capital rules is a top strategic priority, and we expect to comply with the final rules when issued and effective. Based on Basel 2, the Market Risk Final Rule and our current understanding of the Basel 3 Advanced Approach issued by U.S. banking regulators, we estimated our Basel 3 Advanced Approach Tier 1 common capital ratio, on a fully phased-in basis, to be   9.25 percent   at   December 31, 2012  . As of   December 31, 2012  , we estimated that our Tier 1 common  

capital would be   $128.6 billion   and total risk-weighted assets would be   $1,391 billion  , also on a fully phased-in basis. This assumes approval by U.S. banking regulators of our internal analytical models, but does not include the benefit of the removal of the surcharge applicable to the Comprehensive Risk Measure (CRM). The CRM is used to determine the risk-weighted assets for correlation trading positions. Under the Basel 3 NPRs, Tier 1 common capital includes components that exhibit heightened sensitivity to changes in interest rates, such as the cumulative change in the fair value of AFS debt securities and at least 10 percent of the fair value of MSRs recognized on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
  Important differences between Basel 1 and Basel 3 include capital deductions related to our MSRs, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets, and the inclusion of unrealized gains and losses on debt and equity securities recognized in accumulated OCI, each of which will be impacted by future changes in interest rates, overall earnings performance or other Corporate actions. Our estimates under the Basel 3 Advanced Approach will be refined over time as a result of further rulemaking or clarification by U.S. banking regulators and as our understanding and interpretation of the rules evolve.  
  Basel 3 regulatory capital metrics are non-GAAP measures until they are fully adopted and required by U.S. banking regulators.   Table 15   presents a reconciliation of our Basel 1 Tier 1 common capital and risk-weighted assets to our Basel 3 estimates at   December 31, 2012  , assuming fully phased-in measures according to the Basel 3 Advanced Approach. 
  For additional information regarding Basel 2, the Market Risk Final Rule, Basel 3 and other proposed regulatory capital changes, see   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Bank of America, N.A. and FIA Card Services, N.A. Regulatory Capital 
  Table 16   presents regulatory capital information for BANA and FIA at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

BANA s Tier 1 capital ratio   increased     70   bps to   12.44 percent   and the Total capital ratio   decreased     41   bps to   14.76 percent   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   December 31, 2011  . The Tier 1 leverage ratio   decreased     six   bps to   8.59 percent   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   December 31, 2011  . The increase in the Tier 1 capital ratio was driven by earnings eligible to be included in capital of $12.3 billion and a decrease in risk-weighted assets of $69.1 billion compared to the prior year, largely offset by dividends paid to the Corporation of $14.1 billion during   2012  . The decrease in the Total capital ratio was driven by a $12.0 billion decrease in qualifying subordinated debt, partially offset by the net impact of earnings eligible to be included in capital and a decrease in risk-weighted assets. The decrease in the Tier 1 leverage ratio was driven by a decrease in Tier 1 capital, partially offset by a decrease in adjusted quarterly average total assets. 
  FIA s Tier 1 capital ratio   decreased     29   bps to   17.34 percent   and the Total capital ratio   decreased     37   bps to   18.64 percent   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   December 31, 2011  . The Tier 1 leverage ratio   decreased     55   bps to   13.67 percent   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   December 31, 2011  . The decrease in the Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios was driven by returns of capital of $6.6 billion to the Corporation during   2012  , partially offset by earnings eligible to be included in capital of $4.2 billion and a decrease in risk-weighted assets primarily due to a decrease in loans. The decrease in the Tier 1 leverage ratio was driven by the decrease in Tier 1 capital, partially offset by a decrease in adjusted quarterly average total assets of $12.0 billion. 
  Broker/Dealer Regulatory Capital 
  The Corporation s principal U.S. broker/dealer subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith (MLPF S) and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp (MLPCC). MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of MLPF S and provides clearing and settlement services. Both entities are subject to the net capital requirements of SEC Rule 15c3-1. Both entities are also registered as futures commission merchants and are subject to the CFTC Regulation 1.17. 
  MLPF S has elected to compute the minimum capital requirement in accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirement as permitted by SEC Rule 15c3-1. At   December 31,  

2012  , MLPF S s regulatory net capital as defined by Rule 15c3-1 was $10.3 billion and exceeded the minimum requirement of $683 million by $9.7 billion. MLPCC s net capital of $2.1 billion exceeded the minimum requirement of $236 million by $1.8 billion. 
  In accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirements, MLPF S is required to maintain tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion, net capital in excess of $500 million and notify the SEC in the event its tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. At   December 31, 2012  , MLPF S had tentative net capital and net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements. 
  Economic Capital 
  Our economic capital measurement process provides a risk-based measurement of the capital required for unexpected credit, market and operational losses over a one-year time horizon at a 99.97 percent confidence level. Economic capital is allocated to each business unit and is used for capital adequacy, performance measurement and risk management purposes. The strategic planning process utilizes economic capital with the goal of allocating risk appropriately and measuring returns consistently across all businesses and activities. Economic capital allocation plans are incorporated into the Corporation s financial plan which is approved by the Board on an annual basis.  
  Credit Risk Capital 
  Economic capital for credit risk captures two types of risks: default risk, which represents the loss of principal due to outright default or the borrower s inability to repay an obligation in full, and migration risk, which represents potential loss in market value due to credit deterioration over a one-year capital time horizon. Credit risk is assessed and modeled for all on- and off-balance sheet credit exposures within sub-categories for commercial, retail, counterparty and investment securities. The economic capital methodology captures dimensions such as concentration and country risk and originated securitizations. The economic capital methodology is based on the probability of default, loss given default (LGD), exposure at default (EAD) and maturity for each credit exposure, and the portfolio correlations across exposures. See page   79   for more information on   Credit Risk Management  . 

Market Risk Capital 
  Market risk reflects the potential loss in the value of financial instruments or portfolios due to movements in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, the implied volatility of interest rates, credit spreads, and other economic and business factors. The Corporation s primary market risk exposures are in its trading portfolio, equity investments, MSRs and the interest rate exposure of our core balance sheet. Economic capital is determined by utilizing the same models we use to manage these risks including, for example, VaR, simulation, stress testing and scenario analysis. See page   113   for additional information on   Market Risk Management  . 
  Operational Risk Capital 
  We calculate operational risk capital at the business unit level using actuarial-based models and historical loss data. We supplement the calculations with scenario analysis and risk control assessments. See   Operational Risk Management   on page   120   for more information. 
  Common Stock Dividends 
  For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on common stock during   2012   and through   February 28, 2013  , see   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
    Liquidity Risk 
  Funding and Liquidity Risk Management 
  We define liquidity risk as the potential inability to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations, on- or off-balance sheet, as they come due. Our primary liquidity objective is to provide adequate funding for our businesses throughout market cycles, including periods of financial stress. To achieve that objective, we analyze and monitor our liquidity risk, maintain excess liquidity and access diverse funding sources including our stable deposit base. We define excess liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use to meet our funding requirements as those obligations arise. 
  Global funding and liquidity risk management activities are centralized within Corporate Treasury. We believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity risk management enhances our ability to monitor liquidity requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity events. 
  The Enterprise Risk Committee approves the Corporation s liquidity policy and contingency funding plan, including establishing liquidity risk tolerance levels. The ALMRC monitors our liquidity position and reviews the impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity. ALMRC is responsible for managing liquidity risks and maintaining exposures within the established tolerance levels. ALMRC delegates additional oversight responsibilities to the CFORC, which reports to the ALMRC. The CFORC reviews and monitors our liquidity position, cash flow forecasts, stress testing scenarios and results, and implements our liquidity limits and guidelines. For more information, see   Board Oversight of Risk   on page   68  . Under this governance framework, we have developed certain funding and liquidity risk management practices which include: maintaining excess liquidity at the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including our bank and broker/dealer  

subsidiaries; determining what amounts of excess liquidity are appropriate for these entities based on analysis of debt maturities and other potential cash outflows, including those that we may experience during stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources, considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and performing contingency planning. 
  Global Excess Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered Assets 
  We maintain excess liquidity available to Bank of America Corporation, or the parent company, and selected subsidiaries in the form of cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities. These assets, which we call our Global Excess Liquidity Sources, serve as our primary means of liquidity risk mitigation. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the Federal Reserve and central banks outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities to U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency MBS and a select group of non-U.S. government and supranational securities. We believe we can quickly obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed market conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We hold our Global Excess Liquidity Sources in entities that allow us to meet the liquidity requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the impact of potential regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that could limit the transferability of funds among entities. 
  Our Global Excess Liquidity Sources were   $372 billion   and   $378 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   and were maintained as presented in   Table 17  . 

As shown in   Table 17  , parent company Global Excess Liquidity Sources totaled   $103 billion   and   $125 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The   decrease   in parent company liquidity was primarily due to reductions in long-term debt, partially offset by dividends and capital repayments from subsidiaries. Typically, parent company cash is deposited overnight with BANA. 
  Global Excess Liquidity Sources available to our bank subsidiaries totaled   $247 billion   and   $222 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . These amounts are distinct from the cash deposited by the parent company. The   increase   in liquidity available to our bank subsidiaries was primarily due to an increase in deposits, partially offset by capital returns to the parent company and reductions in debt. In addition to their Global Excess Liquidity Sources, our bank subsidiaries hold other unencumbered investment-grade securities that we believe could also be used to generate liquidity. Our bank subsidiaries can also generate incremental liquidity by pledging a range of other unencumbered loans and securities to certain Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The cash we could have obtained by borrowing against this pool of specifically-identified  

eligible assets was approximately $194 billion and $189 billion at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . We have established operational procedures to enable us to borrow against these assets, including regularly monitoring our total pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is defined by guidelines outlined by the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to regulatory restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries can only be used to fund obligations within the bank subsidiaries and can only be transferred to the parent company or nonbank subsidiaries with prior regulatory approval. 
  Global Excess Liquidity Sources available to our broker/dealer subsidiaries totaled   $22 billion   and   $31 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . Our broker/dealers also held other unencumbered investment-grade securities and equities that we believe could also be used to generate additional liquidity. Liquidity held in a broker/dealer subsidiary is available to meet the obligations of that entity and can only be transferred to the parent company or to any other subsidiary with prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions and minimum requirements. 
  Table 18   presents the composition of Global Excess Liquidity Sources at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

Time to Required Funding and Stress Modeling 
  We use a variety of metrics to determine the appropriate amounts of excess liquidity to maintain at the parent company and our bank and broker/dealer subsidiaries. One metric we use to evaluate the appropriate level of excess liquidity at the parent company is  Time to Required Funding.  This debt coverage measure indicates the number of months that the parent company can continue to meet its unsecured contractual obligations as they come due using only its Global Excess Liquidity Sources without issuing any new debt or accessing any additional liquidity sources. We define unsecured contractual obligations for purposes of this metric as maturities of senior or subordinated debt issued or guaranteed by Bank of America Corporation or Merrill Lynch. These include certain unsecured debt instruments, primarily structured liabilities, which we may be required to settle for cash prior to maturity. The Corporation has established a target for Time to Required Funding of 21 months. Our Time to Required Funding was 33 months at   December 31, 2012  . For purposes of calculating Time to Required Funding at   December 31, 2012  , we have also included in the amount of unsecured contractual obligations the   $8.6 billion   liability related to the BNY Mellon Settlement. The BNY Mellon Settlement is subject to final court approval and certain other conditions, and the timing of payment is not certain. 

We utilize liquidity stress models to assist us in determining the appropriate amounts of excess liquidity to maintain at the parent company and our bank and broker/dealer subsidiaries. These models are risk sensitive and have become increasingly important in analyzing our potential contractual and contingent cash outflows beyond those outflows considered in the Time to Required Funding analysis. We evaluate the liquidity requirements under a range of scenarios with varying levels of severity and time horizons. The scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and Corporation-specific events, including potential credit rating downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and are based on historical experience, regulatory guidance, and both expected and unexpected future events. 
  The types of potential contractual and contingent cash outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and reductions in new debt issuance; diminished access to secured financing markets; potential deposit withdrawals and reduced rollover of maturing term deposits by customers; increased draws on loan commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of credit, including Variable Rate Demand Notes; additional collateral that counterparties could call if our credit ratings were downgraded further; collateral, margin and subsidiary capital requirements arising from losses; and potential liquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not limited to, credit rating downgrades, could negatively impact potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be material to our financial results. 
  We consider all sources of funds that we could access during each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity. We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset-liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain funding sources and businesses. 
  Basel 3 Liquidity Standards 
  In December 2010, the Basel Committee proposed two measures of liquidity risk which are considered part of Basel 3. The first proposed liquidity measure is the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), which is calculated as the amount of a financial institution s unencumbered, high-quality, liquid assets relative to the net cash outflows the institution could encounter under a significant 30-day stress scenario. The Basel Committee announced in January 2013 that an initial minimum LCR requirement of 60 percent will be implemented in January 2015, and will thereafter increase in 10 percent annual increments through January 2019. The second proposed liquidity measure is the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR), which measures the amount of longer-term, stable sources of funding employed by a financial institution relative to the liquidity profiles of the assets funded and the potential for contingent calls on funding liquidity arising from off-balance sheet commitments and obligations over a one-year period. The Basel Committee is currently reviewing the NSFR requirement and intends for the requirement to be implemented by January 2018, following an observation period that is currently underway. We continue to monitor the development and the potential impact of these proposals and assuming adoption by U.S. banking regulators, we expect to meet the final standards within the regulatory timelines. 

Diversified Funding Sources 
  We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits and secured and unsecured liabilities through a globally coordinated funding strategy. We diversify our funding globally across products, programs, markets, currencies and investor groups.  
  We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through our deposits, which were   $1.11 trillion   and   $1.03 trillion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . Deposits are primarily generated by our   CBB  ,   GWIM   and   Global Banking   segments. These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and geography, and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by the FDIC. We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be financed through secured borrowings, including securitizations with GSEs, the FHA and private-label investors, as well as FHLB loans.  
  Our trading activities in broker/dealer subsidiaries are primarily funded on a secured basis through securities lending and repurchase agreements and these amounts will vary based on customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-efficient and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than unsecured financing. Repurchase agreements are generally short-term and often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant reductions in the availability of such financing. We manage the liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. 
  We issue the majority of our long-term unsecured debt at the parent company. During   2012  , the parent company issued $17.6 billion of long-term unsecured debt, including structured liabilities of $9.2 billion. We may also issue long-term unsecured debt through BANA in a variety of maturities and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain an appropriate maturity profile, although there were no new issuances through BANA during   2012  . While the cost and availability of unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services industry or the Corporation, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we anticipate will mature within any month or quarter.  
  The primary benefits expected from our centralized funding strategy include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the variable funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations, time zone differences or other business considerations make parent company funding impractical, certain other subsidiaries may issue their own debt. 

Table 19   presents our long-term debt by major currency at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

Total long-term debt   decreased     $96.7 billion  , or   26 percent  , in   2012  , primarily driven by maturities and liability management actions. This reflects our ongoing initiative to reduce our debt balances over time and we anticipate that debt levels will continue to decline from maturities through 2013. We may, from time to time, purchase outstanding debt securities in various transactions, depending on prevailing market conditions, liquidity and other factors. In addition, our broker/dealer subsidiaries may make markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for investors. For additional information on long-term debt funding, see   Note 12   Long-term Debt     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We use derivative transactions to manage the duration, interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering the characteristics of the assets they are funding. For further details on our ALM activities, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities   on page   117  . 
  We also diversify our unsecured funding sources by issuing various types of debt instruments including structured liabilities, which are debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to other debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. We typically hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these liabilities with derivative positions and/or investments in the underlying instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to settle certain structured liability obligations for cash or other securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances, which we consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however, that a portion of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date. We had outstanding structured liabilities with a carrying value of $51.7 billion and $50.9 billion at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  .  
  Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement for an early repayment, require additional collateral support, result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price.  

Prior to 2010, we participated in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP), which allowed us to issue senior unsecured debt guaranteed by the FDIC in return for a fee based on the amount and maturity of the debt. At   December 31, 2012  , there were no outstanding borrowings under the TLGP and we no longer issue debt under this program. At   December 31, 2011  , we had $23.9 billion outstanding and all of the debt issued under the TLGP matured by June 30, 2012. 
  Contingency Planning 
  We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity. These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and include potential funding strategies and communication and notification procedures that we would implement in the event we experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and assess readiness. 
  Our U.S. bank subsidiaries can access contingency funding through the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Certain non-U.S. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies, procedures and governance processes that would enable us to access these sources if necessary. 
  Credit Ratings 
  Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including OTC derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to maintain high-quality credit ratings. 
  Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies which consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time and they provide no assurances that they will maintain our ratings at current levels. 
  Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes to the rating agencies  methodologies for our industry or certain security types, the rating agencies  assessment of the general operating environment for financial services companies, our mortgage exposures, our relative positions in the markets in which we compete, reputation, liquidity position, diversity of funding sources, funding costs, the level and volatility of earnings, corporate governance and risk management policies, capital position, capital management practices, and current or future regulatory and legislative initiatives. 
  On December 20, 2012, Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (S P) published a full credit analysis report on the Corporation, leaving the credit ratings for the company and its subsidiaries unchanged as of that date. On October 10, 2012, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) announced the results of its periodic review of its ratings for 12 large, complex securities trading and universal banks, including the Corporation. As part of this action, Fitch affirmed the  

Corporation s credit ratings. On June 21, 2012, Moody s Investors Service Inc. (Moody s) completed its previously-announced review for possible downgrade of financial institutions with global capital markets operations, downgrading the ratings of 15 banks and securities firms, including our ratings. The Corporation s long-term debt rating and BANA s long-term and short-term debt ratings were downgraded one notch as part of this action. The Moody s downgrade has not had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Each of the three major rating agencies, Moody s, S P and Fitch, downgraded the ratings for the Corporation and its rated subsidiaries in late 2011. 
  Currently, the Corporation s long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies are as follows: Baa2/P-2 (negative) by Moody s, A-/A-2 (negative) by S P, and A/F1 (stable) by Fitch. BANA s long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks are as follows: A3/P-2 (stable) by Moody s, A/A-1 (negative) by S P, and A/F1 (stable) by Fitch. The credit ratings of Merrill Lynch from the three major credit rating agencies are the same as those of the Corporation. The major credit rating agencies have indicated that the primary drivers of Merrill Lynch s credit ratings are the Corporation s credit ratings. MLPF S s long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks are A/A-1 (negative) by S P and A/F1 (stable) by Fitch. Merrill Lynch International s long-term/short-term senior debt rating is A/A-1 (negative) by S P.  
  The major rating agencies have each indicated that, as a systemically important financial institution, our credit ratings currently reflect their expectation that, if necessary, we would receive significant support from the U.S. government, and that they will continue to assess such support in the context of sovereign financial strength and regulatory and legislative developments. 
  A further reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of further downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries  credit ratings, the counterparties to those agreements may require us to provide additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or adversely impact our liquidity. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker/dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the effect on our incremental cost of funds could be material.  
  At   December 31, 2012  ,   if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the amount of additional collateral contractually required by derivative contracts and other trading agreements would have been approximately     $3.3 billion     comprised of     $2.9 billion     for BANA and     $418 million     for Merrill Lynch and certain of its subsidiaries. If the agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for these entities by a second incremental notch, approximately     $4.4 billion     in additional incremental collateral comprised of     $455 million     for BANA and     $4.0 billion     for Merrill Lynch and certain of its subsidiaries would have been required.    

Also, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of     December 31, 2012     was     $3.8 billion  ,   against which     $3.0 billion     of collateral has been posted. If the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation and certain subsidiaries by a second incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of     December 31, 2012     was an incremental     $1.7 billion  ,   against which     $1.1 billion     of collateral has been posted. 
  While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full scope of consequences of a credit ratings downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. For additional information on potential impacts of credit rating downgrades, see Time to Required Funding and Stress Modeling on page   76  . 
  For information regarding the additional collateral and termination payments that could be required in connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements as a result of such a credit rating downgrade, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors  .  
  On June 8, 2012, S P affirmed its AA+ long-term and A-1+ short-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government. The outlook remains negative. On July 10, 2012, Fitch affirmed its AAA long-term and F1+ short-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. government. The outlook remains negative. Moody s also rates the U.S. government AAA with a negative outlook. All three rating agencies have indicated that they will continue to assess fiscal projections and consolidation measures, as well as the medium-term economic outlook for the U.S.  
    Credit Risk Management 
  Credit quality improved during   2012   due in part to improving economic conditions. Our proactive credit risk management initiatives positively impacted the credit portfolio as charge-offs and delinquencies continued to improve across most portfolios and risk ratings improved in the commercial portfolios. For more information, see   Executive Summary   2012 Economic and Business Environment   on page   26  . 
  Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the credit exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss potential arising from all product classifications including loans and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale and unfunded lending commitments which include loan commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are accounted for under the fair value option. Credit risk for these categories of assets is not accounted for as part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions, our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the  

counterparties     with contracts in which we are in a gain position fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the current mark-to-market value to represent credit exposure without giving consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our consumer and commercial credit extension and review procedures take into account funded and unfunded credit exposures. For additional information on derivative and credit extension commitments, see   Note 3   Derivatives   and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying collateral, and other support given current events, conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as discussed below. 
  We proactively refine our underwriting and credit management practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing economic environment. To actively mitigate losses and enhance customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place collection programs and loan modification and customer assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring, hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of deteriorating commercial exposures to independent special asset officers as credits enter criticized categories. 
  In January 2013, in connection with the FNMA Settlement, we repurchased for $6.6 billion certain residential mortgage loans that had previously been sold to FNMA, which we have valued at less than the purchase price. The majority of these repurchased loans will be included in our PCI portfolio. For additional information on the FNMA Settlement, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54   and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  During   2012  , new regulatory guidance issued regarding the treatment of loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and regulatory interagency guidance issued on junior-lien consumer real estate loans adversely impacted the consumer portfolio s nonperforming loan and net charge-off statistics. In addition, the National Mortgage Settlement adversely impacted net charge-offs but resulted in a corresponding reduction in nonperforming loans. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
  Certain European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have experienced varying degrees of financial stress in recent years. For additional information on our exposures and related risks in non-U.S. countries, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   on page   105   and Item 1A. Risk Factors. 
  For information on our Credit Risk Management activities, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  ,   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   95  ,   Non-U.S. Portfolio   on page   105  ,   Provision for Credit Losses   and   Allowance for Credit Losses   both on page   109  ,   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management 
  Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower s credit cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are built using detailed behavioral information from external sources such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience. These models are a component of our consumer credit risk management process and are used in part to help make both new and existing credit decisions, as well as portfolio management strategies, including authorizations and line management, collection practices and strategies, determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses, and economic capital allocations for credit risk. 
  Since January 2008, and through   2012  , Bank of America and Countrywide have completed approximately 1.2 million loan modifications with customers. During   2012  , we completed more than 156,000 customer loan modifications with a total unpaid principal balance of approximately $34 billion, including approximately 41,400 permanent modifications under the government s Making Home Affordable Program. Of the loan modifications completed in   2012  , in terms of both the volume of modifications and the unpaid principal balance associated with the underlying loans, most were in the portfolio serviced for investors and were not on our balance sheet. The most common types of modifications include a combination of rate reduction and/or capitalization of past due amounts which represented 54 percent of the volume of modifications completed in   2012  , while principal forbearance represented 18 percent, principal reductions and forgiveness represented 17 percent and capitalization of past due amounts represented seven percent. For modified loans on our balance sheet, these modification types are generally considered TDRs. For more information on TDRs and portfolio impacts, see   Nonperforming Consumer Loans and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   93   and   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Consumer Credit Portfolio 
  Improvement in the U.S. economy, labor markets and home prices during   2012   resulted in lower credit losses across all major consumer portfolios. Although home prices have shown signs of improvement, the declines over the past several years continued to adversely impact the home loans portfolio. 
  Improved credit quality across the consumer portfolio and the impact of the National Mortgage Settlement, as discussed in the following section, drove an   $8.6 billion     decrease   in the consumer allowance for loan and lease losses to   $21.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012  . For more information, see   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   109  . 
  As a result of the National Mortgage Settlement in 2012, which among other things provided for borrower assistance, we recorded charge-offs of   $435 million   related to fully forgiven non-PCI loans in the home equity portfolio, which resulted in reductions of the same amount in nonperforming loans. Associated with the National Mortgage Settlement in 2012, we also fully forgave home  

equity loans in the Countrywide PCI portfolio with a carrying value before reserves of   $2.5 billion   and an unpaid principal balance of   $2.9 billion   which resulted in a decrease in the corresponding allowance for loan and lease losses. These items had no impact on the provision for credit losses as these loans were fully reserved. For more information on the National Mortgage Settlement, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Other Mortgage-related Matters   on page   61  . 
  In 2012, new regulatory guidance was issued addressing consumer real estate loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. In accordance with this new guidance, we now classify consumer real estate and other secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower, as TDRs, irrespective of payment history or delinquency status, even if the repayment terms for the loan have not been otherwise modified. We continue to have a lien on the underlying collateral. Previously, such loans were classified as TDRs only if there had been a change in contractual payment terms that represented a concession to the borrower. The net impact upon implementation to the consumer real estate and other secured consumer portfolios of adopting this new regulatory guidance was a   $551 million   increase in net charge-offs as these loans were written-down to collateral value, and the full-year impact was a   $596 million   increase in net charge-offs in   2012  . This also resulted in an increase of   $3.6 billion   in TDRs and   $1.2 billion   in net new nonperforming loans upon implementation, of which   $1.1 billion   of such loans were included in nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2012  . Of the   $1.1 billion  ,   $1.0 billion  , or   92 percent  , were current on their contractual payments. Of these contractually current nonperforming loans, more than   70 percent   were discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy more than 12 months ago, and more than   40 percent   were discharged 24 months or more ago. As subsequent cash payments are received, the interest component of the payments is generally recorded as interest income on a cash basis and the principal component is generally recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the loan. For more information on the impacts to consumer loans as a result of this new regulatory guidance, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  In 2012, the bank regulatory agencies jointly issued interagency supervisory guidance on nonaccrual status for junior-lien consumer real estate loans. In accordance with this regulatory interagency guidance, we now classify junior-lien home equity loans as nonperforming when the first-lien loan becomes 90 days past due even if the junior-lien loan is performing, and as a result, we reclassified $1.9 billion of performing home equity loans to nonperforming upon implementation, and   $1.5 billion   of such loans were included in nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2012  . The regulatory interagency guidance had no impact on our allowance for loan and lease losses or provision for credit losses as the delinquency status of the underlying first-lien was already considered in our reserving process. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Home Equity   on page   87   and   Table 21  . 
  For further information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-offs and TDRs for the consumer portfolio, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Table 20   presents our outstanding consumer loans and the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio. Loans that were acquired from Countrywide and considered credit-impaired were recorded at fair value upon acquisition. In addition to being included in the  Outstandings  columns in   Table 20  , these loans are also shown separately, net of purchase accounting adjustments, in the  Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio  column. For additional information, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . The impact of  

the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio on certain credit statistics is reported where appropriate. See   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90   for more information. Under certain circumstances, loans that were originally classified as discontinued real estate loans upon acquisition have been subsequently modified from pay option or subprime loans into loans with more conventional terms and are now included in the residential mortgage portfolio, but continue to be classified as PCI loans as shown in   Table 20  .  

(5)   
    Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of   $147 million   and   $906 million   and discontinued real estate loans of   $858 million   and   $1.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . See   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option   on page   93   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information on the fair value option. 
     n/a = not applicable 

Table 21   presents the impact of the National Mortgage Settlement, the impact of the new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and the impact of regulatory interagency guidance on nonaccrual status for junior-lien  

consumer real estate loans for the Core and Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolios within the home loans portfolio and other secured consumer portfolio within direct/indirect consumer. These impacts are included in the following consumer credit discussions.  

(1)   
    In 2012, the bank regulatory agencies jointly issued interagency supervisory guidance on nonaccrual status for junior-lien consumer real estate loans. 
               (2)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.5 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement in   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
               (3)   
    Net charge-offs include   $551 million   of current or less than 60 days past due loans charged off as a result of the completion of implementation of new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and $45 million of loans charged off subsequent to the implementation. 
     n/a = not applicable 

Table 22   presents accruing consumer loans past due 90 days or more and consumer nonperforming loans. Nonperforming loans do not include past due consumer credit card loans, other unsecured loans and in general, consumer non-real estate-secured loans (excluding those loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy) as these loans are typically charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Real estate-secured past due consumer loans that are insured by the FHA or individually insured under long-term stand-by agreements with FNMA and FHLMC (collectively, the fully-insured loan portfolio) are reported as accruing as opposed to nonperforming since the  

principal repayment is insured. Fully-insured loans included in accruing past due 90 days or more are primarily related to our purchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements. Additionally, nonperforming loans and accruing balances past due 90 days or more do not include the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio or loans accounted for under the fair value option even though the customer may be contractually past due. For additional information on FHA loans, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Other Mortgage-related Matters   on page   61  . 

(1)   
    Nonperforming loans include the impacts of the National Mortgage Settlement and guidance issued by regulatory agencies. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  .  
               (2)   
    Balances accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. These balances include   $17.8 billion   and   $17.0 billion   of loans on which interest has been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore are no longer accruing interest, although principal is still insured and   $4.4 billion   and   $4.2 billion   of loans on which interest was still accruing at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 
               (3)   
    Balances exclude consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  ,   $391 million   and   $713 million   of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90 days or more and not accruing interest. 
     n/a = not applicable 
  Table 23   presents net charge-offs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases. 

(1)   
    Net charge-offs and related ratios for   2012   include the impacts of the National Mortgage Settlement and new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
               (2)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
               (3)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       Net charge-off ratios, excluding the Countrywide PCI and fully-insured loan portfolios, were   2.02 percent   and   2.27 percent   for residential mortgage,   3.98 percent   and   3.77 percent   for home equity, 6.10 percent and 7.14 percent for discontinued real estate and 2.99 percent and 3.62 percent for the total consumer portfolio for   2012   and   2011  . These are the only product classifications impacted by the Countrywide PCI and fully-insured loan portfolios for   2012   and   2011  . 

Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. The net charge-off ratio including the PCI write-offs for home equity was 6.02 percent in 2012. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 

Table 24   presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net charge-offs, allowance for loan and lease losses and provision for loan and lease losses for the Core portfolio and the Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolio within the home loans portfolio. For more information on Legacy Assets   Servicing, see page   41  . 

(1)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012   which is included in the Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolio.  
               (2)   
    Nonperforming loans and net charge-offs include the impacts of the National Mortgage Settlement and guidance issued by regulatory agencies. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
               (3)   
    Balances exclude consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option of   $147 million   and   $906 million   of residential mortgage loans and   $858 million   and   $1.3 billion   of discontinued real estate loans at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . See   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option   on page   93   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information on the fair value option. 
               (4)   
    The   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for 2012 decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
       We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to exclude the impact of the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option is more representative of the ongoing operations and credit quality of the business. As a result, in the following discussions of the residential mortgage, home equity and discontinued real estate portfolios, we provide information that excludes the impact of the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option in certain credit quality statistics. We separately disclose information on the Countrywide PCI loan portfolios on page   90  . 
  Residential Mortgage 
  The residential mortgage portfolio, which for purposes of the consumer credit portfolio discussion and related tables excludes  

the discontinued real estate portfolio acquired from Countrywide, makes up the largest percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 44 percent of consumer loans at   December 31, 2012  . Approximately 17 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio is in   GWIM   and represents residential mortgages that are originated for the home purchase and refinancing needs of our wealth management clients. The remaining portion of the portfolio is primarily in   All Other   and is comprised of originated loans, purchased loans used in our overall ALM activities, delinquent FHA loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA as well as loans repurchased related to our representations and warranties. 
  Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio, excluding   $147 million   of loans accounted for under the fair value option,   decreased     $19.1 billion   in   2012   as paydowns, charge-offs  

and transfers to foreclosed properties more than offset new origination volume retained on our balance sheet.  
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the residential mortgage portfolio included   $90.9 billion   and   $93.9 billion   of outstanding fully-insured loans. On this portion of the residential mortgage portfolio, we are protected against principal loss as a result of either FHA insurance or long-term stand-by agreements with FNMA and FHLMC. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , $66.6 billion and $69.5 billion had FHA insurance and $24.3 billion and $24.4 billion were protected by long-term stand-by agreements. All of these loans are individually insured and therefore the Corporation does not record an allowance for credit losses with respect to these loans. 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , $25.5 billion and $24.0 billion of the FHA-insured loan population were delinquent FHA loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA. 
  In addition to the long-term stand-by agreements with FNMA and FHLMC, we have mitigated a portion of our credit risk on the residential mortgage portfolio through the use of synthetic securitization vehicles as described in   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the synthetic securitization vehicles referenced principal balances of   $17.6 billion   and   $23.9 billion   of residential mortgage loans and provided loss protection up to   $500 million   and   $783 million  . At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation had a receivable of   $305 million   and   $359 million   from these vehicles for reimbursement of losses. The  

Corporation records an allowance for credit losses on loans referenced by the synthetic securitization vehicles. The reported net charge-offs for the residential mortgage portfolio do not include the benefit of amounts reimbursable from these vehicles. Adjusting for the benefit of the credit protection from the synthetic securitizations, the residential mortgage net charge-off ratio, excluding the Countrywide PCI and fully-insured loan portfolios, for   2012   would have been reduced by nine bps, and 13 bps for   2011  . 
  Synthetic securitizations and the long-term stand-by agreements with FNMA and FHLMC together reduce our regulatory risk-weighted assets due to the transfer of a portion of our credit risk to unaffiliated parties. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , these programs had the cumulative effect of reducing our risk-weighted assets by $7.2 billion and $7.9 billion, increasing our Tier 1 capital ratio by eight bps for both periods, and our Tier 1 common capital ratio by seven bps and six bps. 
  Table 25   presents certain residential mortgage key credit statistics on both a reported basis excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, and excluding the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option. We believe the presentation of information adjusted to exclude these loan portfolios is more representative of the credit risk in the residential mortgage loan portfolio. As such, the following discussion presents the residential mortgage portfolio excluding the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, see page   90  . 

(1)   
    Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. There were   $147 million   and   $906 million   of residential mortgage loans accounted for under the fair value option at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . See   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option   on page   93   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information on the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2012   and net charge-off ratios for   2012   include the impact of new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
                (4)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
     n/a = not applicable 
    Nonperforming residential mortgage loans   decreased     $1.2 billion   in   2012   as paydowns, charge-offs and returns to performing status, outpaced new inflows. In addition, nonperforming residential mortgage loan balances at   December 31, 2012   included   $572 million   due to new regulatory guidance related to loans less than 60 days past due that were discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. At   December 31, 2012  , borrowers were current on contractual payments with respect to $3.5 billion, or 24 percent of nonperforming residential mortgage loans, and $8.7 billion, or  

59 percent of nonperforming residential mortgage loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral less estimated costs to sell. Accruing loans past due 30 days or more   decreased     $868 million   in   2012  . 
  Net charge-offs   decreased     $779 million   to   $3.1 billion   in   2012  , or   2.02 percent   of total average residential mortgage loans, compared to   $3.8 billion  , or   2.27 percent  , for   2011  . This   decrease   in net charge-offs for   2012   was primarily driven by decreased write- 

downs on loans greater than 180 days past due which were written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral less estimated costs to sell, and favorable delinquency trends. In addition,   2012   included   $75 million   in net charge-offs related to loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy that were written down to the underlying collateral value as a result of new regulatory guidance. For more information on the new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . Net charge-off ratios were further impacted by lower loan balances primarily due to paydowns and charge-offs outpacing new originations. 
  Loans in the residential mortgage portfolio with certain characteristics have greater risk of loss than others. These characteristics include loans with a high refreshed LTV, loans originated at the peak of home prices in 2006 and 2007, interest-only loans and loans to borrowers located in California and Florida where we have concentrations and where significant declines in home prices have been experienced. Although the disclosures in this section address each of these risk characteristics separately, there is significant overlap in loans with these characteristics, which contributed to a disproportionate share of the losses in the portfolio. The residential mortgage loans with all of these higher risk characteristics comprised four percent and six percent of the residential mortgage portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , and accounted for 20 percent of the residential mortgage net charge-offs in   2012  , and 23 percent in   2011  . 
  Residential mortgage loans with a greater than 90 percent but less than 100 percent refreshed LTV represented   10 percent   and   11 percent   of the residential mortgage portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent represented   20 percent   and   26 percent   of the residential mortgage loan portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Of the loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent, 92 percent were performing at both   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where the outstanding carrying value of the loan is greater than  

the most recent valuation of the property securing the loan. The majority of these loans have a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent primarily due to home price deterioration over the past several years. Loans to borrowers with refreshed FICO scores below 620 represented   14 percent   and   15 percent   of the residential mortgage portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 
  Of the   $143.6 billion   and   $158.5 billion   in total residential mortgage loans outstanding at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , as shown in   Table 26  , 41 percent and 40 percent were originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding balance of interest-only residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period was $13.7 billion, or 23 percent, at   December 31, 2012  . Residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. As of   December 31, 2012  , $368 million, or three percent of outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more compared to   $3.1 billion  , or   two percent   of accruing past due 30 days or more for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, at   December 31, 2012  , $2.1 billion, or 16 percent of outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming compared to   $14.8 billion  , or   10 percent   of nonperforming loans for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. Loans in our interest-only residential mortgage portfolio have an interest-only period of three to 10 years and more than 85 percent of these loans will not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2015 or later. 
  Table 26   presents outstandings, nonperforming loans and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the residential mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented 12 percent of outstandings at both   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Loans within this MSA comprised only eight percent and seven percent of net charge-offs for   2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Outstandings and nonperforming amounts exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. There were   $147 million   and   $906 million   of residential mortgage loans accounted for under the fair value option at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . See   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option   on page   93   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information on the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Nonperforming loans and net charge-offs include the impact of new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
               (3)   
    In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states). 
               (4)   
    Amount excludes the Countrywide PCI residential mortgage and fully-insured loan portfolios. 
       The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) encourages banks to meet the credit needs of their communities for housing and other purposes, particularly in neighborhoods with low or moderate incomes. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , our CRA portfolio was  

$11.3 billion and $12.5 billion, or eight percent of the residential mortgage loan balances for both periods. The CRA portfolio included $2.5 billion of nonperforming loans at both   December 31, 2012 and 2011   representing 17 percent and 15 percent of  

total nonperforming residential mortgage loans. Net charge-offs related to the CRA portfolio were $643 million and $732 million for   2012   and   2011  , or 21 percent and 19 percent of total net charge-offs for the residential mortgage portfolio.  
  For information on representations and warranties related to our residential mortgage portfolio, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54   and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Home Equity 
  The home equity portfolio makes up   20 percent   of the consumer portfolio and is comprised of HELOCs, home equity loans and reverse mortgages. As of   December 31, 2012  , our HELOC portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $91.3 billion  , or 85 percent of the total home equity portfolio. HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10 years with approximately nine percent of the portfolio having a draw period of five years with a five-year renewal option. During the initial draw period, the borrowers are only required to pay the interest due on the loans on a monthly basis. After the initial draw period ends, the loans generally convert to 15-year amortizing loans.  
  As of   December 31, 2012  , our home equity loan portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $15.3 billion  , or 14 percent of the total home equity portfolio. Home equity loans are almost all fixed-rate loans with amortizing payment terms of 10 to 30 years and 51 percent of these loans have 25 to 30-year terms.  
  As of   December 31, 2012  , our reverse mortgage portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $1.4 billion  , or one percent of the total home equity portfolio. In 2011, we exited the reverse mortgage origination business. 

At   December 31, 2012  , 88 percent of the home equity portfolio was included in   CRES   while the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in   GWIM  . Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio   decreased     $16.7 billion   in   2012   primarily due to paydowns and charge-offs outpacing new originations and draws on existing lines. In addition, in   2012  , $2.9 billion of loans, including   $2.5 billion   of Countrywide PCI loans in the home equity portfolio, were forgiven in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement. Of the total home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  ,   $21.1 billion  , or   20 percent  , and $24.5 billion, or 20 percent, were in first-lien positions (  21 percent   and 22 percent excluding the Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  ). As of   December 31, 2012  , outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-lien position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled $29.8 billion, or 30 percent of our total home equity portfolio excluding the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio. 
  Unused HELOCs totaled   $60.9 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $67.5 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . This decrease was primarily due to customers choosing to close accounts as well as line management initiatives on deteriorating accounts, which more than offset new production. The HELOC utilization rate was 60 percent at   December 31, 2012   compared to 61 percent at   December 31, 2011  . 
  Table 27   presents certain home equity portfolio key credit statistics on both a reported basis as well as excluding the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio. We believe the presentation of information adjusted to exclude the impact of the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio is more representative of the credit risk in this portfolio. 

(2)   
    Nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2012   and net charge-off ratios for   2012   include the impacts of the National Mortgage Settlement and guidance issued by regulatory agencies. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
               (3)   
    Beginning in 2012, home equity FICO metrics reflected an updated scoring model that is more representative of the credit risk of our borrowers. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect these updates. 
                (5)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans. 
       The following discussion presents the home equity portfolio excluding the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio. 
  Nonperforming outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio   increased     $1.8 billion   in   2012   due to the reclassification to nonperforming of junior-lien loans less than 90 days past due that have a senior-lien loan that is 90 days or more past due which  

resulted in a   $1.5 billion   increase as of   December 31, 2012  , and the reclassification to nonperforming of loans less than 60 days past due that were discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy which resulted in an increase of   $478 million   at   December 31, 2012  , in both cases pursuant to new regulatory guidance.  

These additions to nonperforming loans were partially offset by the   $435 million   of loans forgiven related to the National Mortgage Settlement. Excluding the impact of these items, nonperforming loans increased compared to   December 31, 2011   as inflows outpaced outflows in   2012  . At   December 31, 2012  , on $2.0 billion, or 46 percent of nonperforming home equity loans, the borrowers were current on contractual payments and $1.2 billion, or 28 percent of nonperforming home equity loans, were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral less estimated costs to sell. Outstanding balances accruing past due 30 days or more   decreased     $560 million   during   2012   driven in part by the reclassification of junior-lien home equity loans to nonperforming in accordance with regulatory interagency guidance. For more information on the changes as a result of regulatory guidance and the National Mortgage Settlement, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  . 
  In some cases, the junior-lien home equity outstanding balance that we hold is performing, but the underlying first-lien is not. For outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio in which we service the first-lien loan, we are able to track whether the first-lien loan is in default. For loans where the first-lien is serviced by a third party, we utilize credit bureau data to estimate the delinquency status of the first-lien. Given that the credit bureau database we use does not include a property address for the mortgages, we are unable to identify with certainty whether a reported delinquent first-lien mortgage pertains to the same property for which we hold a junior-lien loan. At   December 31, 2012  , we estimate that $2.6 billion of current and $559 million of 30 to 89 days past due junior-lien loans were behind a delinquent first-lien loan. We service the first-lien loans on $958 million of these combined amounts, with the remaining $2.2 billion serviced by third parties. Of the $3.2 billion current to 89 days past due junior-lien loans, based on available credit bureau data and our own internal servicing data, we estimate that approximately $1.5 billion had first-lien loans that were 90 days or more past due.  
  Net charge-offs   decreased     $236 million   to   $4.2 billion  , or   3.98 percent   of the total average home equity portfolio, for   2012   compared to   $4.5 billion  , or   3.77 percent  , for   2011   primarily driven by favorable portfolio trends due in part to improvement in the U.S. economy partially offset by   $435 million   in net charge-offs associated with the National Mortgage Settlement and   $474 million   in net charge-offs related to loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy that were written down to the underlying collateral value due to new regulatory guidance. Net charge-off ratios were further impacted by lower outstanding balances primarily as a result of paydowns and charge-offs outpacing new originations and draws on existing lines. 
  There are certain characteristics of the home equity portfolio that have contributed to higher losses including those loans with a high refreshed combined loan-to-value (CLTV), loans that were originated at the peak of home prices in 2006 and 2007, and loans in geographic areas that have experienced the most significant declines in home prices. Home price declines coupled with the fact that most home equity outstandings are secured by second-lien positions have significantly reduced and, in some cases, eliminated all collateral value after consideration of the first-lien position. Although the disclosures in this section address each of these risk characteristics separately, there is significant overlap in outstanding balances with these characteristics, which has contributed to a disproportionate share of losses in the portfolio. Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio with  

all of these higher risk characteristics comprised eight percent and 10 percent of the total home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , and accounted for 24 percent of the home equity net charge-offs in   2012   compared to 28 percent in   2011  . 
  Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio with greater than 90 percent but less than 100 percent refreshed CLTVs comprised   10 percent   and   11 percent   of the home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Outstanding balances with refreshed CLTVs greater than 100 percent comprised   29 percent   and   32 percent   of the home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where the carrying value and available line of credit of the combined loans are equal to or greater than the most recent valuation of the property securing the loan. Depending on the value of the property, there may be collateral in excess of the first-lien that is available to reduce the severity of loss on the second-lien. Home price deterioration over the past several years has contributed to an increase in CLTV ratios. Of those outstanding balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent, 95 percent of the customers were current at   December 31, 2012   and 92 percent of second-lien loans with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent were current on both their second-lien and underlying first-lien loans at   December 31, 2012  . Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio to borrowers with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented   eight percent   and   nine percent   of the home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 
  Of the   $99.4 billion   and   $112.7 billion   in total home equity portfolio outstandings at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , 79 percent and 78 percent were interest-only loans, almost all of which were HELOCs. The outstanding balance of HELOCs that have entered the amortization period was $2.1 billion, or two percent of total HELOCs, at   December 31, 2012  . The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. As of   December 31, 2012  , $72 million, or three percent of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more compared to $972 million, or one percent of outstanding accruing past due 30 days or more for the entire HELOC portfolio. In addition, at   December 31, 2012  , $131 million, or six percent of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming compared to $3.7 billion, or four percent of outstandings that were nonperforming for the entire HELOC portfolio. Loans in our HELOC portfolio generally have an initial draw period of 10 years and more than 85 percent of these loans will not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2015 or later. 
  Although we do not actively track how many of our home equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their home equity loans and lines, we can infer some of this information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we service and that is still in its revolving period (i.e., customers may draw on and repay their line of credit, but are generally only required to pay interest on a monthly basis). During   2012  , approximately 50 percent of these customers did not pay any principal on their HELOCs. 
  Table 28   presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the home equity portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 11 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . This MSA comprised eight percent and seven percent of net charge-offs in  

2012   and   2011  . The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California made up 12 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . This MSA comprised 11 percent and 12 percent of net charge-offs in   2012   and   2011  . 

For information on representations and warranties related to our home equity portfolio, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54   and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

(1)   
    Nonperforming loans and net charge-offs include the impacts of the National Mortgage Settlement and guidance issued by regulatory agencies. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
               (2)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
               (3)   
    In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states).  
               (4)   
    Amount excludes the Countrywide PCI home equity loan portfolio. 
       Discontinued Real Estate 
  The discontinued real estate portfolio, excluding   $858 million   of loans accounted for under the fair value option, totaled   $9.9 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and consists of pay option and subprime loans acquired in the Countrywide acquisition. Upon acquisition, the majority of the discontinued real estate portfolio was considered credit-impaired and written down to fair value. At   December 31, 2012  , the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio was   $8.8 billion  , or   89 percent   of the total discontinued real estate portfolio. This portfolio is included in   All Other   and is managed as part of our overall ALM activities. See   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90   for more information on the discontinued real estate portfolio. At   December 31, 2012  , the purchased discontinued real estate portfolio that was not credit-impaired was   $1.1 billion  . Loans with greater than 90 percent refreshed LTVs and CLTVs comprised 32 percent of the portfolio and those with refreshed FICO scores below 620 represented 41 percent of the portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California made up 16 percent of outstanding discontinued real estate loans at   December 31, 2012  . 
  Pay option adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), which are included in the discontinued real estate portfolio, have interest rates that adjust monthly and minimum required payments that adjust annually, subject to resetting if minimum payments are made and deferred interest limits are reached. Annual payment adjustments are subject to a 7.5 percent maximum change. To ensure that contractual loan payments are adequate to repay a loan, the fully-amortizing loan payment amount is re-established after the initial five- or 10-year period and again every five years thereafter. These payment adjustments are not subject to the 7.5 percent limit and may be substantial due to changes in interest rates and the addition of unpaid interest to the loan balance. Payment advantage ARMs have interest rates that are fixed for an initial period of five years. Payments are subject to reset if the minimum payments are made and deferred interest limits are reached. If interest deferrals cause a loan s principal balance to  

reach a certain level within the first 10 years of the life of the loan, the payment is reset to the interest-only payment; then at the 10-year point, the fully-amortizing payment is required. 
  The difference between the frequency of changes in a loan s interest rates and payments along with a limitation on changes in the minimum monthly payments of 7.5 percent per year can result in payments that are not sufficient to pay all of the monthly interest charges (i.e., negative amortization). Unpaid interest is added to the loan balance until the loan balance increases to a specified limit, which can be no more than 115 percent of the original loan amount, at which time a new monthly payment amount adequate to repay the loan over its remaining contractual life is established. 
  At   December 31, 2012  , the unpaid principal balance of pay option loans was $9.4 billion, with a carrying amount of $8.8 billion, including $8.1 billion of loans that were credit-impaired upon acquisition, and accordingly, the reserve is based on a life-of-loan loss estimate. The total unpaid principal balance of pay option loans with accumulated negative amortization was $6.4 billion including $464 million of negative amortization. For those borrowers who are making payments in accordance with their contractual terms, 17 percent and 22 percent at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   elected to make only the minimum payment on option ARMs. We believe the majority of borrowers are now making scheduled payments primarily because the low rate environment has caused the fully indexed rates to be affordable to more borrowers. We continue to evaluate our exposure to payment resets on the acquired negative-amortizing loans including the Countrywide PCI pay option loan portfolio and have taken into consideration several assumptions regarding this evaluation including prepayment and default rates. Of the loans in the pay option portfolio at   December 31, 2012   that have not already experienced a payment reset,   one percent   are expected to reset in 2013 and approximately   23 percent   thereafter. In addition,   seven percent   are expected to prepay and   69 percent   are expected to default prior to being reset, most of which were severely delinquent as of   December 31, 2012  . 

Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio 
  Loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at purchase that we will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are accounted for under the accounting guidance for PCI loans, which addresses accounting for differences between contractual and expected cash flows to be collected from the purchaser s initial investment in loans if those differences are attributable, at least in part, to credit quality. Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the acquisition date may include statistics such as past due status, refreshed FICO scores and refreshed LTVs. PCI loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition and the applicable accounting guidance prohibits carrying over or recording a valuation allowance in the initial accounting. 
  PCI loans that have similar risk characteristics, primarily credit risk, collateral type and interest rate risk, are pooled and accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an  

aggregate expectation of cash flows. Once a pool is assembled, it is considered as if it were one loan for purposes of applying the accounting guidance for PCI loans. An individual loan is removed from a PCI loan pool if it is sold, foreclosed, forgiven or the expectation of any future proceeds is remote. When a loan is removed from a PCI loan pool and the foreclosure or recovery value of the loan is less than the loan s carrying value, the difference is first applied against the PCI pool s nonaccretable difference. If the nonaccretable difference has been fully utilized, only then is the PCI pool s basis applicable to that loan written-off against its valuation reserve; however, the integrity of the pool is maintained and it continues to be accounted for as if it were one loan. 
  Table 29   presents the unpaid principal balance, carrying value, related valuation allowance and the net carrying value as a percentage of the unpaid principal balance for the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio. 

The total Countrywide PCI unpaid principal balance   decreased     $8.3 billion  , or   24 percent  , in   2012   to   $26.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   primarily driven by liquidations, paydowns and payoffs. In addition, the decline includes loans with an unpaid principal balance of   $2.9 billion   within the home equity portfolio that were forgiven in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement of which 92 percent were 180 days or more past due. For more information on the National Mortgage Settlement, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  .  
  Of the unpaid principal balance of   $26.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , $7.3 billion was 180 days or more past due, including $6.5 billion of first-lien and $795 million of home equity loans. Of the $19.2 billion that was less than 180 days past due, $17.1 billion, or 89 percent of the total unpaid principal balance, was current based on the contractual terms while $1.3 billion, or seven percent, was in early stage delinquency. The home equity 180 days or more past due balances declined $2.9 billion, or 79 percent, during   2012  , due primarily to the loans forgiven as discussed above. 
  During   2012  , we recorded a provision benefit of $103 million for the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio including a benefit of $88 million for discontinued real estate, a benefit of $27 million for residential mortgage loans and a provision expense of $12 million for home equity. This compared to a total provision of $2.1 billion in   2011  . The decline in provision in   2012   was primarily driven by an improvement in our home price outlook.  

The Countrywide PCI allowance   declined     $2.9 billion   during   2012   driven by a   $2.7 billion   reduction in the Countrywide PCI home equity allowance primarily as a result of liquidations including the forgiveness of   $2.5 billion   of fully reserved home equity loans in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement. For further information on the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  In January 2013, in connection with the FNMA Settlement, we repurchased for   $6.6 billion   certain residential mortgage loans that had previously been sold to FNMA, which we have valued at less than the purchase price. The majority of these loans were classified as PCI loans when they were recorded in January 2013. For additional information, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54  . 
  Additional information on the Countrywide PCI residential mortgage, home equity and discontinued real estate loan portfolios is provided in the following sections. 
  Purchased Credit-impaired Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio 
  The Countrywide PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio comprised   33 percent   of the total Countrywide PCI loan portfolio at   December 31, 2012  . Those loans to borrowers with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented 37 percent of the Countrywide  

PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio at   December 31, 2012  . Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 90 percent, after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the related valuation allowance, represented 60 percent of the Countrywide PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio and 80 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2012  . Those loans that were originally classified as Countrywide PCI discontinued real estate loans upon acquisition and have been subsequently modified are now included in the Countrywide PCI residential mortgage outstandings.   Table 30   presents outstandings net of purchase accounting adjustments and before the related valuation allowance, by certain state concentrations. 

(1)   
    In this state, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial state). 
     Purchased Credit-impaired Home Equity Loan Portfolio 
  The Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio comprised   33 percent   of the total Countrywide PCI loan portfolio at   December 31, 2012  . Those loans with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented 23 percent of the Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2012  . Loans with a refreshed CLTV greater than 90 percent, after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the related valuation allowance, represented 76 percent of the Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio and 77 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2012  .   Table 31   presents outstandings net of purchase accounting adjustments and before the related valuation allowance, by certain state concentrations. 

(1)   
    In this state, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial state). 
     Purchased Credit-impaired Discontinued Real Estate Loan Portfolio 
  The Countrywide PCI discontinued real estate loan portfolio comprised   34 percent   of the total Countrywide PCI loan portfolio at   December 31, 2012  . Those loans to borrowers with a refreshed  

FICO score below 620 represented 62 percent of the Countrywide PCI discontinued real estate loan portfolio at   December 31, 2012  . Loans with a refreshed LTV, or CLTV in the case of second-liens, greater than 90 percent, after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the related valuation allowance, represented 42 percent of the Countrywide PCI discontinued real estate loan portfolio and 81 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2012  . Those loans that were originally classified as discontinued real estate loans upon acquisition and have been subsequently modified are now excluded from this portfolio and included in the Countrywide PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio, but remain in the PCI loan pool.   Table 32   presents outstandings net of purchase accounting adjustments and before the related valuation adjustment, by certain state concentrations. 

(1)   
    In this state, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial state). 
     U.S. Credit Card 
  The U.S. credit card portfolio is managed in   CBB  . Outstandings in the U.S. credit card portfolio   decreased     $7.5 billion   in   2012   due to higher payments, charge-offs and portfolio sales. Net charge-offs   decreased     $2.6 billion   to   $4.6 billion   in   2012   due to improvements in delinquencies and bankruptcies as a result of an improved economic environment, account management on higher risk accounts and the impact of higher credit quality originations. U.S. credit card loans 30 days or more past due and still accruing interest   decreased     $1.1 billion   while loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest   decreased     $633 million    
  in   2012   due to improvement in the U.S. economy.   Table 33   presents certain key credit statistics for the consumer U.S. credit card portfolio. 

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans. 
     Unused lines of credit for U.S. credit card totaled $335.5 billion and $368.1 billion at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . The $32.6 billion decrease was driven by closure of inactive accounts and account management initiatives on higher risk accounts. 

Table 34   presents certain state concentrations for the U.S. credit card portfolio. 

Non-U.S. Credit Card 
  Outstandings in the non-U.S. credit card portfolio, which are recorded in   All Other  ,   decreased     $2.7 billion   in   2012   due to transfers to LHFS, lower origination volume and charge-offs. Net charge-offs   decreased     $588 million   to   $581 million   in   2012   due to the sale of the Canadian consumer credit card portfolio in 2011 and improvement in delinquencies.  
  Unused lines of credit for non-U.S. credit card decreased $1.1 billion to $35.7 billion in   2012   driven by a decline in the number of outstanding accounts primarily offset by strengthening of the British Pound against the U.S. Dollar. 
  Table 35   presents certain key credit statistics for the non-U.S. credit card portfolio. 

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases. 
     Direct/Indirect Consumer 
  At   December 31, 2012  , approximately 43 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio was included in   Global Banking   (dealer financial  

services - automotive, marine, aircraft and recreational vehicle loans), 39 percent was included in   GWIM   (principally securities-based lending margin loans and unsecured personal loans), 12 percent was included in   All Other   (the IWM business based outside of the U.S. that was moved from   GWIM   and student loans) and the remaining portion was in   CBB   (consumer personal loans). 
  Outstanding loans and leases   decreased     $6.5 billion   in   2012   due to run-off of an auto loan portfolio, an auto loan sale and securitization within the dealer financial services portfolio and lower outstandings in the unsecured consumer lending portfolio     partially offset by     growth in securities-based lending. For   2012  , net charge-offs   decreased     $713 million   to   $763 million  , or   0.90 percent   of total average direct/indirect loans compared to   1.64 percent   for   2011  . This decrease was primarily driven by improvements in delinquencies, collections and bankruptcies in the unsecured consumer lending portfolio as a result of an improved economic environment as well as reduced outstandings. Partially offsetting this decline was   $47 million   of net charge-offs related to other secured consumer loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy as a result of new regulatory guidance. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
  Net charge-offs in the unsecured consumer lending portfolio decreased $610 million to $485 million in   2012  , or 7.68 percent of total average unsecured consumer lending loans compared to 10.93 percent for   2011  . Direct/indirect loans that were past due 30 days or more and still accruing interest declined $537 million to $1.4 billion in   2012   due to improvements     in both the unsecured consumer lending and dealer financial services portfolios. 
  Table 36   presents certain state concentrations for the direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio. 

Other Consumer 
  At   December 31, 2012  , approximately 87 percent of the   $1.6 billion   other consumer portfolio was associated with certain consumer finance businesses that we previously exited and non-U.S. consumer loan portfolios that are included in   All Other  . The remainder is primarily deposit overdrafts included in   CBB  . 
  Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option 
  Outstanding consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option were   $1.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and included   $858 million   of discontinued real estate loans and   $147 million   of residential mortgage loans in consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs). During   2012  , we recorded gains of $57 million resulting from changes in the fair value of the loan portfolio. These were offset by losses recorded on the related long-term debt. 
  Nonperforming Consumer Loans and Foreclosed Properties Activity 
  Table 37   presents nonperforming consumer loans and foreclosed properties activity during   2012   and   2011  . Nonperforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming loans as they are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Nonperforming loans do not include past due consumer credit card loans, other unsecured loans and in general, consumer non-real estate-secured loans (excluding those loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy), as these loans are typically charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. The fully-insured loan portfolio is not reported as nonperforming as principal repayment is insured. Additionally, nonperforming loans do not include the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio or loans accounted for under the fair value option. For further information on nonperforming loans, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Nonperforming loans   increased     $663 million   in   2012   to   $19.4 billion  . During 2012, we reclassified to nonperforming $1.9 billion of junior-lien loans less than 90 days past due that have a senior-lien loan that is 90 days or more past due and   $1.2 billion   of loans less than 60 days past due that were discharged in Chapter 7  

bankruptcy upon implementation of new regulatory guidance. These additions to nonperforming loans were partially offset by   $435 million   of nonperforming loans forgiven in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement. Excluding the impact of these items, nonperforming loans declined in   2012   as outflows outpaced new inflows which continued to improve due to favorable delinquency trends. For more information on the impacts related to the National Mortgage Settlement and guidance issued by regulatory agencies, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
  The outstanding balance of a real estate-secured loan that is in excess of the estimated property value, after reducing the estimated property value for estimated costs to sell, is charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due unless repayment of the loan is fully insured. At   December 31, 2012  , $10.7 billion, or 54 percent, of nonperforming consumer real estate loans and foreclosed properties had been written down to their estimated property value less estimated costs to sell, including $10.1 billion of nonperforming loans 180 days or more past due and $650 million of foreclosed properties. 
  Foreclosed properties   decreased     $1.3 billion   in   2012   as liquidations outpaced additions. PCI loans are excluded from nonperforming loans as these loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date; however, once the underlying real estate is acquired by the Corporation upon foreclosure of the delinquent PCI loan, it is included in foreclosed properties. Countrywide PCI related foreclosed properties decreased $322 million in   2012  . Not included in foreclosed properties at   December 31, 2012   was $2.5 billion of real estate that was acquired upon foreclosure of delinquent FHA-insured loans. We hold this real estate on our balance sheet until we convey these properties to the FHA. We exclude these amounts from our nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties activity as we will be reimbursed once the property is conveyed to the FHA for principal and, up to certain limits, costs incurred during the foreclosure process and interest incurred during the holding period. For additional information on the review of our foreclosure processes, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Other Mortgage-related Matters   on page   61  . 

Restructured Loans 
  Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. These concessions typically result from the Corporation s loss mitigation activities and could include reductions in the interest rate, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions. Certain  

TDRs are classified as nonperforming at the time of restructuring and may only be returned to performing status after considering the borrower s sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period, generally six months. Nonperforming TDRs, excluding those modified loans in the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, are included in   Table 37  . 

(2)   
    In 2012, we added   $1.2 billion   to nonperforming loans as a result of new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 
               (3)   
    As a result of the regulatory interagency guidance, we reclassified $1.9 billion of performing home equity loans to nonperforming during 2012. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  . 
               (4)   
    Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. 
               (5)   
    Our policy is to not classify consumer credit card and non-bankruptcy related consumer loans not secured by real estate as nonperforming; therefore, the charge-offs on these loans have no impact on nonperforming activity and accordingly are excluded from this table. 
               (6)   
    New foreclosed properties represents transfers of nonperforming loans to foreclosed properties net of charge-offs taken during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. New foreclosed properties also includes properties obtained upon foreclosure of delinquent PCI loans, properties repurchased due to representations and warranties exposure and properties acquired with newly consolidated subsidiaries. 
               (7)   
    At   December 31, 2012  ,   52 percent   of nonperforming loans were 180 days or more past due and were written down through charge-offs to   62 percent   of the unpaid principal balance. 
                (9)   
    Outstanding consumer loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
     n/a = not applicable 
    Our policy is to record any losses in the value of foreclosed properties as a reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. Thereafter, further losses in value are recorded in noninterest expense. New foreclosed properties included in   Table 37   are net of $261 million and $352 million of charge-offs for   2012   and   2011  , recorded during the first 90 days after transfer.  
  In 2012, new regulatory guidance was issued addressing secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7  

bankruptcy, and as a result,   $3.6 billion   of loans were included in TDRs at   December 31, 2012  , of which   $1.2 billion   were current or less than 60 days past due upon implementation. Of the   $3.6 billion   of TDRs, approximately 27 percent, 41 percent and 32 percent had been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy in   2012  ,   2011   and prior years, respectively. For more information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80   and   Table 21  . 

Table 38   presents TDRs for the home loans portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans in   Table 37  . 

We work with customers that are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying credit card and other consumer loans, while complying with Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines. Substantially all of our credit card and other consumer loan modifications involve a reduction in the customer s interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, both of which are considered to be TDRs (the renegotiated TDR portfolio). We make modifications primarily through internal renegotiation programs utilizing direct customer contact, but may also utilize external renegotiation programs. The renegotiated TDR portfolio is generally excluded from   Table 37   as substantially all of the loans remain on accrual status until either charged off or paid in full. The renegotiated TDR portfolio included   $58 million   of non-real estate-secured loans at   December 31, 2012   that were discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy as a result of new regulatory guidance and classified as nonperforming loans. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , our renegotiated TDR portfolio was   $3.9 billion   and   $7.1 billion  , of which   $3.1 billion   and   $5.5 billion   were current or less than 30 days past due under the modified terms. The decline in the renegotiated TDR portfolio was primarily driven by paydowns and charge-offs as well as lower new program enrollments. For more information on the renegotiated TDR portfolio, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
    Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management 
  Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition,  

cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single name concentration limits while also balancing the total borrower or counterparty relationship. Our business and risk management personnel use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In addition, risk ratings are a factor in determining the level of assigned economic capital and the allowance for credit losses. 
  For information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-offs for the commercial portfolio, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Management of Commercial Credit Risk 
  Concentrations 
  Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal that concentrations of credit exposure do not result in undesirable levels of risk. We review, measure and manage concentrations of credit exposure by industry, product, geography, customer relationship and loan size. We also review, measure and manage commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property type. In addition, within our international portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by country. Tables   43  ,   48  ,   56   and   57   summarize our concentrations. We also utilize syndications of exposure to third parties, loan sales, hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio.  
  As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. In situations where an economic concession has been granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty, we identify these loans as TDRs. 

We account for certain large corporate loans and loan commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit which are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes, that exceed our single name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored, and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with the Corporation s credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. In addition, we purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other credit exposures. To lessen the  

cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for treatment as accounting hedges. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss). 
  Commercial Credit Portfolio 
  Table 39   presents our commercial loans and leases, and related credit quality information at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(2)   
    Includes card-related products. 
               (3)   
    Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial loans of   $2.3 billion   and   $2.2 billion  , and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $5.7 billion   and   $4.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . See   Note 22   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information on the fair value option. 
       Outstanding commercial loans and leases   increased     $37.6 billion   in   2012  , primarily in non-U.S. commercial and U.S. commercial. During   2012  , credit quality in the commercial loan portfolio continued to show improvement relative to the prior year. Reservable criticized balances and nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed property balances in the commercial credit portfolio declined during   2012   and the declines were primarily in the commercial real estate and U.S. commercial portfolios. Commercial real estate continued to show improvement in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. The reduction in reservable criticized U.S. commercial loans was driven by broad-based improvements in terms of clients, industries and businesses. Most other credit indicators across the remaining commercial portfolios also improved in   2012  . The allowance for loan and lease losses declined   $1.0 billion   from   December 31, 2011   to   $3.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012   due to improvements  

in the core commercial portfolio   (total commercial products excluding U.S. small business)  . For more information, see   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   109  .  
  Nonperforming commercial loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans and leases was   0.91 percent   and   2.02 percent   (  0.93 percent   and   2.04 percent   excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option) at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . Accruing commercial loans and leases past due 90 days or more as a percentage of outstanding commercial loans and leases was   0.06 percent   and   0.10 percent   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  .  
  Table 40   presents net charge-offs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for   2012   and   2011  . Improving portfolio trends drove lower charge-offs across most of the portfolio.  

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 

Table 41   presents commercial credit exposure by type for utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure. Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and financial guarantees, bankers  acceptances and commercial letters of credit for which we are legally bound to advance funds under prescribed conditions, during a specified period. Although funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure types are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes. Total commercial committed credit exposure   increased     $16.5 billion   in   2012   primarily driven by increases in loans and LHFS, partially offset by decreases in derivative assets, and SBLCs and financial guarantees. 

Total commercial utilized credit exposure   increased     $5.2 billion   in   2012   primarily driven by the same factors as total commercial committed exposure as described in the previous paragraph. The decrease in derivatives relates primarily to a lower valuation of existing trades due to interest rate decreases along with reduced trading volume. The utilization rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and financial guarantees, commercial letters of credit and bankers  acceptances was   58 percent   and   57 percent   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Total commercial utilized exposure at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   includes loans and issued letters of credit and is comprised of loans outstanding of   $8.0 billion   and   $6.6 billion   and commercial letters of credit with a notional value of $672 million and $1.3 billion accounted for under the fair value option. 
                (3)   
    Excludes unused business card lines which are not legally binding. 
               (4)   
    Derivative assets are carried at fair value, reflect the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by cash collateral of   $58.1 billion   and   $58.9 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Not reflected in utilized and committed exposure is additional derivative collateral held of $18.7 billion and $16.1 billion which consists primarily of other marketable securities. 
        Table 42   presents commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure by product type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. Total commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure   decreased     $11.3 billion  , or   42 percent  , in   2012   primarily in commercial real estate and U.S.  

commercial property types driven largely by continued paydowns, rating upgrades, charge-offs and sales outpacing downgrades. At   December 31, 2012  , approximately 82 percent of commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure was secured compared to 85 percent at   December 31, 2011  . 

(2)   
    Percentages are calculated as commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure divided by total commercial utilized reservable exposure for each exposure category. 

U.S. Commercial 
  At   December 31, 2012  , 68 percent of the U.S. commercial loan portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in   Global Banking,   10 percent in   Global Markets  , 10 percent in   CBB   and the remainder primarily in   GWIM   (business-purpose loans for wealthy clients). U.S. commercial loans, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option,   increased     $17.2 billion  , or   10 percent  , in   2012   primarily due to greater client demand in middle-market segments, dealer financing and specialized industries, and growth in certain asset-backed lending products. Reservable criticized balances and nonperforming loans and leases   declined     $3.1 billion   and   $690 million   in   2012  . The declines were broad-based in terms of clients and industries and were driven by improved client credit profiles and liquidity. Net charge-offs   increased     $47 million   in   2012   due primarily to lower recoveries compared to   2011  . 
  Commercial Real Estate 
  The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly managed in   Global Banking   and consists of loans made primarily to public and  

private developers, and commercial real estate firms. Outstanding loans   decreased     $959 million  , or   two percent  , in   2012   due to paydowns outpacing new originations and renewals. 
  The portfolio remains diversified across property types and geographic regions. California represented the largest state concentration at   23 percent   and   20 percent   of commercial real estate loans and leases at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  .  
  Commercial real estate credit quality improved significantly during 2012. Nonperforming commercial real estate loans and foreclosed properties   decreased     $2.7 billion  , or   61 percent  , in   2012   primarily in the non-residential portfolio. Reservable criticized balances   decreased     $7.7 billion  , or   67 percent  , primarily due to declines in the non-residential portfolio. Net charge-offs   declined     $563 million   in   2012   compared to 2011 due to improvement in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. 
  Table 43   presents outstanding commercial real estate loans by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the collateral, and by property type. Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans and leases secured by non-owner-occupied real estate which is dependent on the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of repayment. 

(1)   
    Includes unsecured outstandings to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Wyoming and Montana. 
       During   2012  , we continued to see improvements in both the residential and non-residential portfolios; however, portions of the non-residential portfolio in certain markets may be subject to additional risk. We use a number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce utilized and potential exposure in the  

commercial real estate portfolios including ongoing refinement of our credit standards, additional transfers of deteriorating exposures to management by independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our customers and the Corporation. 

Tables   44   and   45   present commercial real estate credit quality data by non-residential and residential property types. The residential portfolio presented in Tables   43  ,   44   and   45   includes condominiums and other residential real estate. Other property  

types in Tables   43  ,   44   and   45   primarily include special purpose, nursing/retirement homes, medical facilities and restaurants, as well as unsecured loans to borrowers whose primary business is commercial real estate. 

(2)   
    Includes loans, SBLCs and bankers  acceptances and excludes loans accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       At   December 31, 2012  , total committed non-residential exposure was $54.5 billion compared to $53.1 billion at   December 31, 2011  , of which $37.0 billion and $37.2 billion were funded secured loans. Non-residential nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties were   $1.4 billion   and   $3.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , which represented 3.68 percent and 9.29 percent of total non-residential loans and foreclosed properties. The decline in nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties in the non-residential portfolio was driven by decreases in the office, industrial/warehouse, shopping centers/retail and multi-family rental property types. Non-residential utilized reservable criticized exposure   decreased   to   $3.2 billion  , or 8.27 percent of non-residential utilized reservable exposure, at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $10.1 billion  , or 25.34 percent, at   December 31, 2011   primarily driven by repayments and an overall improvement in credit quality. The decrease in reservable criticized exposure was primarily driven by office, multi-family rental, industrial/warehouse and shopping centers/retail property types in the non-residential portfolio. For the non-residential portfolio, net charge-offs   decreased     $379 million   in   2012    

compared to 2011 primarily due to improving appraisal values, improved borrower credit profiles and higher recoveries. 
  At   December 31, 2012  , total committed residential exposure was $3.2 billion compared to $3.9 billion at   December 31, 2011  , of which $1.6 billion and $2.4 billion were funded secured loans. The decline in residential committed exposure was due to repayments, net charge-offs, and continued risk reduction and mitigation initiatives in line with our portfolio strategy. Residential nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties   decreased     $600 million   in   2012   due to repayments, a decline in the volume of loans being downgraded to nonaccrual status and net charge-offs. Residential utilized reservable criticized exposure   decreased     $884 million   to   $534 million   due to repayments and net charge-offs. The nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties and the utilized reservable criticized ratios for the residential portfolio were 23.33 percent and 31.56 percent at   December 31, 2012   compared to 38.89 percent and 54.65 percent at   December 31, 2011  . Net charge-offs for the residential portfolio   decreased     $184 million   in   2012   compared to 2011. 

At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the commercial real estate loan portfolio included $6.7 billion and $10.9 billion of funded construction and land development loans that were originated to fund the construction and/or rehabilitation of commercial properties. The decline in construction and land development loans was driven by repayments, net charge-offs, continued risk mitigation initiatives and a reduced emphasis on new originations. This portfolio is mostly secured and diversified across property types and geographic regions but faces continuing challenges in the housing markets. Reservable criticized construction and land development loans totaled $1.5 billion and $4.9 billion, and nonperforming construction and land development loans and foreclosed properties totaled $730 million and $2.1 billion at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . During a property s construction phase, interest income is typically paid from interest reserves that are established at the inception of the loan. As construction is completed and the property is put into service, these interest reserves are depleted and interest payments from operating cash flows begin. Loans generally continue to be classified as construction loans until operating cash flows reach appropriate levels or the loans are refinanced. We do not recognize interest income on nonperforming loans regardless of the existence of an interest reserve. 
  Non-U.S. Commercial 
  At   December 31, 2012  , 72 percent of the non-U.S. commercial loan portfolio was managed in   Global Banking   and 28 percent in   Global Markets  . Outstanding loans, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option,   increased     $18.8 billion   in   2012   primarily due to increased client financing activity, structured lending and trade finance exposures. Net charge-offs   decreased     $124 million   in   2012   compared to 2011. For additional information on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   on page   105  . 
  U.S. Small Business Commercial 
  The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised of small business card and small business loans managed in   CBB  . Card-related products were 45 percent and 46 percent of the U.S.  

small business commercial portfolio at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs   decreased     $296 million   in   2012   compared to   2011   driven by improvements in delinquencies, collections and bankruptcies resulting from an improved economic environment as well as the reduction of higher risk vintages and the impact of higher credit quality originations. Of the U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs, 58 percent were credit card-related products in   2012   compared to 74 percent in   2011  . 
  Commercial Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value     Option 
  The portfolio of commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option is managed primarily in   Global Banking  . Outstanding commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option   increased     $1.4 billion   to an aggregate fair value of   $8.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012   primarily due to increased corporate borrowings under bank credit facilities. We recorded net gains of   $213 million   in   2012   compared to net losses of   $174 million   in   2011   resulting from changes in the fair value of the loan portfolio. These amounts were primarily attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, were recorded in other income (loss) and do not reflect the results of hedging activities. 
  In addition, unfunded lending commitments and letters of credit accounted for under the fair value option had an aggregate fair value of   $528 million   and   $1.2 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   which was recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The associated aggregate notional amount of unfunded lending commitments and letters of credit accounted for under the fair value option was   $18.3 billion   and   $25.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . We recorded net gains of   $704 million   from changes in the fair value of commitments and letters of credit during   2012   compared to net losses of   $429 million   in   2011   resulting from maturities and terminations at par value and changes in the fair value of the loan portfolio. These amounts were primarily attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, were recorded in other income (loss) and do not reflect the results of hedging activities. 

Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity 
  Table 46   presents the nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during   2012   and   2011  . Nonperforming commercial loans and leases   decreased     $3.1 billion   to   $3.2 billion   at   December 31, 2012   driven by paydowns, charge-offs and sales outpacing new nonperforming loans. Approximately 94 percent of commercial nonperforming loans,  

leases and foreclosed properties are secured and approximately 45 percent are contractually current. Commercial nonperforming loans are carried at approximately 76 percent of their unpaid principal balance before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the estimated property value less estimated costs to sell. 

(2)   
    Includes U.S. small business commercial activity. 
               (3)   
    Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance. 
               (4)   
    Small business card loans are not classified as nonperforming; therefore, the charge-offs on these loans have no impact on nonperforming activity and accordingly are excluded from this table. 
               (5)   
    New foreclosed properties represents transfers of nonperforming loans to foreclosed properties net of charge-offs recorded during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. 
               (6)   
    Excludes loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       Table 47   presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and are not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than  

the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For additional information on TDRs, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Industry Concentrations 
  Table 48   presents commercial committed and utilized credit exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Total committed commercial credit exposure   increased     $16.5 billion  , or   two percent  , to   $767.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012  . The   increase   in commercial committed exposure was concentrated in food, beverage and tobacco, banking, energy, diversified financials, and real estate, partially offset by lower exposure to government and public education. 
  Industry limits are used internally to manage industry concentrations and are based on committed exposures and capital usage that are allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well as to provide ongoing monitoring. Management s Credit Risk Committee (CRC) oversees industry limit governance.  
  Diversified financials, our largest industry concentration, experienced an   increase   in committed exposure of   $4.7 billion  , or   five percent  , in   2012   primarily driven by increases in margin loans and certain asset-backed lending products, partially offset by a decrease in derivative exposure. 
  Real estate, our second largest industry concentration, experienced an   increase   in committed exposure of   $3.1 billion  , or   five percent  , in   2012   primarily due to new originations and renewals outpacing paydowns and sales. Real estate construction and land development exposure represented 14 percent of the total real estate industry committed exposure at   December 31, 2012  , down from 20 percent at   December 31, 2011  . For more information on  

commercial real estate and related portfolios, see   Commercial Real Estate   on page   98  . 
  Committed exposure in the food, beverage and tobacco industry   increased     $6.8 billion  , or   22 percent  , in   2012   primarily related to short-term acquisition financing. Government and public education committed exposure   decreased     $6.7 billion  , or   12 percent  , in   2012   primarily driven by decreases in loans and SBLCs. Banking committed exposure   increased     $6.5 billion  , or   17 percent  , in   2012   primarily driven by loans to mortgage finance companies and trade finance activity with non-U.S. banks. Energy committed exposure   increased     $6.4 billion  , or   20 percent  , in   2012   reflecting loan growth in the exploration and production, and integrated oil sectors. 
  Our committed state and municipal exposure of $38.0 billion at   December 31, 2012   consisted of $30.9 billion of commercial utilized exposure (including $17.6 billion of funded loans, $8.9 billion of SBLCs and $3.6 billion of derivative assets) and unfunded commercial exposure of $7.2 billion (primarily unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit) and is reported in the government and public education industry in   Table 48  . While the slow economic recovery continues to pressure budgets, most U.S. state and local governments have implemented offsetting fiscal adjustments and continue to honor debt obligations as agreed. While historical default rates have been low, as part of our overall and ongoing risk management processes, we continually monitor these exposures through a rigorous review process. Additionally, internal communications are regularly circulated to maintain exposure levels and are in compliance with established concentration guidelines. 

(1)   
    Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure. 
               (2)   
    Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the borrowers  or counterparties  primary business activity using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors. 
               (3)   
    Represents net notional credit protection purchased. See   Risk Mitigation   on page   104   for additional information. 
       Monoline Exposure 
  Monoline exposure is reported in the insurance industry and managed under insurance portfolio industry limits. We have indirect exposure to monolines primarily in the form of guarantees supporting our loans, investment portfolios, securitizations and credit-enhanced securities as part of our public finance business and other selected products. Such indirect exposure exists when we purchase credit protection from monolines to hedge all or a portion of the credit risk on certain credit exposures including loans and CDOs. We underwrite our public finance exposure by evaluating the underlying securities. 
  We also have indirect exposure to monolines in the form of guarantees supporting our mortgage and other loan sales. Indirect exposure may exist when credit protection was purchased from monolines to hedge all or a portion of the credit risk on certain mortgage and other loan exposures. A loss may occur when we are required to repurchase a loan and the market value of the loan has declined, or we are required to indemnify or provide recourse for a guarantor s loss. For additional information regarding our exposure to representations and warranties, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54   and   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  

Table   49   presents the notional amount of our monoline derivative credit exposure, mark-to-market adjustment and the counterparty credit valuation adjustment. 

The notional amount of monoline exposure at   December 31, 2012     decreased     $7.5 billion   from   December 31, 2011   due to terminations, paydowns and maturities of monoline contracts. In addition, $1.3 billion of monoline exposure with a single counterparty ($4.9 billion gross receivable less impairment) was included in other assets at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The contracts are no longer considered to be derivative trading instruments because of the inherent default risk and they no longer  

provide a hedge benefit. We also have potential representations and warranties exposure with the same counterparty.  
  Risk Mitigation 
  We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection.  
  At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , net notional credit default protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge our funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was   $14.7 billion   and   $19.4 billion  . The mark-to-market effects resulted in net losses of $1.0 billion in   2012   compared to net gains of $121 million in   2011  . The gains and losses related to these instruments are offset by gains and losses on the exposures.   Table 50   presents the average VaR for these derivatives. See   Trading Risk Management   on page   114   for a description of our VaR calculation for the market-based trading portfolio. 

(1)   
    Reflects the diversification effect between net credit default protection hedging our credit exposure and the related credit exposure. 
     Tables   51   and   52   present the maturity profiles and the credit exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  .  

(1)   
    Represents net credit default protection (purchased) sold. 
               (2)   
    Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis. 
               (3)   
    Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade. 
               (4)   
     NR  is comprised of names that have not been rated. 
       In addition to our net notional credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, multinational financial institutions, including broker/dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are  subject  to  

settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these contracts. In most cases, credit derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required of the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. 

Table 53   presents the total contract/notional amount of credit derivatives outstanding and includes both purchased and written credit derivatives. The credit risk amounts are measured as net asset exposure by counterparty, taking into consideration all contracts and collateral with that counterparty. The contract/notional amounts of credit derivatives decreased primarily due to portfolio optimization and increased utilization of clearinghouses in relation to certain regulatory initiatives and refinement of risk mitigation activities. For information on written credit derivatives,  

see   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  The credit risk amounts discussed above and presented in   Table 53   take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements, while amounts disclosed in   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   are shown on a gross basis. Credit risk reflects the potential benefit from offsetting exposure to non-credit derivative products with the same counterparties that may be netted upon the occurrence of certain events, thereby reducing our overall exposure. 

n/a = not applicable 
    Counterparty Credit Risk Valuation Adjustments 
  We record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments (CVA) on certain derivative assets, including our credit default protection purchased, in order to properly reflect the credit risk of the counterparty. We calculate CVA based on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk factors including changes in market spreads and non-credit related market factors that affect the value of a derivative. The exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral.   Table 54   presents credit valuation gains (losses), net of hedges, for   2012   and   2011  . In   2012  , we refined our methodology for CVA on derivatives on a prospective basis. We no longer consider the probability of default for both the counterparty and the Corporation when calculating the counterparty CVA and now only consider the probability of the counterparty defaulting for CVA. For more information, see   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . The effect of this change in estimate on CVA is reflected in the table below. Credit valuation gains for   2012   were due to improved counterparty creditworthiness, partially offset by hedge results. For information on our monoline counterparty credit risk, see   Monoline Exposure   on page   103  . 

Non-U.S. Portfolio 
  Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies. A risk management  

framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S. risk and exposures. Management oversight of country risk, including cross-border risk, is provided by the Country Credit Risk Committee, a subcommittee of the CRC. In addition to the direct risk of doing business in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (for example, related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through credit, market and operational risk governance, rather than through the country risk governance. 
  Table 55   presents our total non-U.S. exposure broken out by region at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S. Risk assignments by country can be adjusted for externally guaranteed loans outstanding and certain collateral types. Exposures which are subject to external guarantees are reported under the country of the guarantor. Exposures with tangible collateral are reflected in the country where the collateral is held. For securities received, other than cross-border resale agreements, outstandings are assigned to the domicile of the issuer of the securities.  

Our total non-U.S. exposure was   $281.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , an   increase   of   $44.6 billion   from   December 31, 2011  . The increase in non-U.S. exposure was driven by our strategy to grow non-U.S. business in select countries and diversify risk globally. Our non-U.S. exposure remained concentrated in Europe which accounted for   $137.8 billion  , or   49 percent   of total non-U.S. exposure. The European exposure was mostly in Western Europe and was distributed across a variety of industries. Select European countries are further detailed in Table   57  . Asia Pacific was our second largest non-U.S. exposure at   $92.4 billion  , or   33 percent   of total non-U.S. exposure. Latin America accounted for   $21.2 billion  , or   eight percent   of total non-U.S. exposure. Middle East and Africa accounted for   $8.2 billion  , or   three percent   of total non-U.S. exposure. Other non-U.S. exposure accounted for   $22.0 billion   or approximately   seven percent   of total non-U.S. exposure. For information on country specific exposures, see Tables   56   and   57  . 
  Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases and other extensions of credit or funds including letters of credit and due from placements, which have not been reduced by collateral or credit default protection. Funded loans are reported net of charge-offs but prior to any allowance for loan and lease losses. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents.  
  Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with credit default swaps (CDS) and secured financing transactions. Derivative  

exposures are reported net of collateral, which is predominantly cash, pledged under legally enforceable netting agreements. Secured financing transaction exposures have been reduced by eligible cash or securities pledged as collateral. Counterparty exposure has not been reduced by hedges or credit default protection. 
  Securities and other investments are marked-to-market and long positions are netted against short positions with the same underlying issuer to, but not below, zero (i.e., negative issuer exposures are reported as   zero  ). Other investments includes our GPI portfolio and strategic investments.  
  Net country exposure represents country exposure less hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold. We hedge certain of our country exposures with credit default protection primarily in the form of single-name, as well as index and tranche CDS. The exposures associated with these hedges represent the amount that would be realized upon the isolated default of an individual issuer in the relevant country assuming a zero recovery rate for that individual issuer, and are calculated based on the CDS notional amount less any fair value receivable or payable. Changes in the assumption of an isolated default can produce different results in a particular tranche. 
  Table 56   presents our 20 largest, non-U.S. country exposures. These exposures accounted for   89 percent   of our total non-U.S. exposure at   December 31, 2012   compared to   88 percent   at   December 31, 2011  . 

Certain European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have experienced varying degrees of financial stress in recent years. Risks from the ongoing debt crisis in these countries could continue to disrupt the financial markets which could have a detrimental impact on global economic conditions and sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries. In the fourth quarter of   2012  , European policymakers continued to make incremental progress toward greater fiscal and monetary unity; however, fundamental issues of competitiveness, growth and fiscal solvency remain as challenges. As a result, volatility is expected to continue. We expect to continue to support client activities in the region and our exposures may vary over time as we monitor the situation and manage our risk profile. 

Table 57   presents our direct sovereign and non-sovereign exposures in these countries at   December 31, 2012  . Our total sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to these countries was   $14.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $15.2 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The total exposure to these countries, net of all hedges, was   $9.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $10.3 billion   at   December 31, 2011  , of which   $280 million   and   $362 million   was sovereign exposure. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the value of hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold, was   $5.1 billion   and   $4.9 billion  . 

(1)   
    Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives including the counterparty risk associated with credit default protection and secured financing transactions. Derivatives are presented net of   $3.1 billion   in collateral, predominantly in cash, pledged under legally enforceable netting agreements. Secured financing transactions are presented net of eligible cash or securities pledged. The notional amount of reverse repurchase transactions was   $1.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012  . Counterparty exposure is not presented net of hedges or credit default protection.  
               (2)   
    Long securities exposures have been netted on a single-name basis to, but not below, zero by short positions of   $6.5 billion   and net CDS purchased of   $1.8 billion  , consisting of   $2.0 billion   of net single-name CDS purchased and   $207 million   of net index and tranched CDS sold. 
               (3)   
    Represents credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold, which is used to mitigate the Corporation s risk to country exposures as listed, including   $2.7 billion  , consisting of   $3.0 billion   in net single-name CDS purchased and   $346 million   in net index and tranched CDS sold, to hedge loans and securities,   $2.3 billion   in additional credit default protection purchased to hedge derivative assets and   $60 million   in other short positions. 
       The majority of our CDS contracts on reference assets in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain are with highly-rated financial institutions primarily outside of the Eurozone and we work to limit or eliminate correlated CDS. Due to our engagement in market-making activities, our CDS portfolio contains contracts with various maturities to a diverse set of counterparties. We work to  

limit mismatches in maturities between our exposures and the CDS we use to hedge them. However, there may be instances where the protection purchased has a different maturity from the exposure for which the protection was purchased, in which case, those exposures and hedges are subject to more active monitoring and management. 

Table 58   presents the notional and fair value amounts of single-name CDS purchased and sold on reference assets in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.   Table 58   includes only single-name CDS netted at the counterparty level, whereas,   Table 57   includes single-name, indexed and tranched CDS positions netted by the reference asset that they are intended to hedge; therefore, CDS purchased and sold information is not comparable between tables. 

(1)   
    The majority of our CDS contracts on reference assets in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain are primarily with non-Eurozone counterparties.  
               (2)   
    Amounts listed are after consideration of legally enforceable counterparty master netting agreements. 
     Losses could result even if there is credit default protection purchased because the purchased credit protection contracts only pay out under certain scenarios and thus not all losses may be covered by the credit protection contracts. The effectiveness of our CDS protection as a hedge of these risks is influenced by a number of factors, including the contractual terms of the CDS.  

Generally, only the occurrence of a credit event as defined by the CDS terms (which may include, among other events, the failure to pay by, or restructuring of, the reference entity) results in a payment under the purchased credit protection contracts. The determination as to whether a credit event has occurred is made by the relevant International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Determination Committee (comprised of various ISDA member firms) based on the terms of the CDS and facts and circumstances for the event. Accordingly, uncertainties exist as to whether any particular strategy or policy action for addressing the European debt crisis would constitute a credit event under the CDS. A voluntary restructuring may not trigger a credit event under CDS terms and consequently may not trigger a payment under the CDS contract. 
  In addition to our direct sovereign and non-sovereign exposures, a significant deterioration of the European debt crisis could result in material reductions in the value of sovereign debt and other asset classes, disruptions in capital markets, widening of credit spreads of U.S. and other financial institutions, loss of investor confidence in the financial services industry, a slowdown in global economic activity and other adverse developments. For additional information on the debt crisis in Europe, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors  . 
  Table 59   presents countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. Cross-border exposures are calculated using FFIEC guidelines and not our internal risk management view; therefore, exposures are not comparable between tables. Exposure includes cross-border claims by our non-U.S. offices including loans, acceptances, time deposits placed, trading account assets, securities, derivative assets, other interest-earning investments and other monetary assets. Amounts also include unfunded commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees, and the notional value of cash lent under secured financing transactions. Sector definitions are consistent with FFIEC reporting requirements for preparing the Country Exposure Report. At   December 31, 2012  , the United Kingdom, France and Canada were the only countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. No other countries had exposure exceeding   0.75 percent   of our total assets.  

Provision for Credit Losses 
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $5.2 billion   to   $8.2 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The provision for credit losses was   $6.7 billion   lower than net charge-offs for   2012  , resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses due to improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in the consumer real estate portfolios, lower bankruptcy filings and delinquencies affecting the Card Services portfolio, and improvement in overall credit quality within the core commercial portfolio   (total commercial products excluding U.S. small business)  . Absent unexpected deterioration in the economy, we expect reductions in the allowance for credit losses, excluding the valuation allowance for PCI loans, to continue in the near term, though at a slower pace than in 2012. 
  The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio   decreased     $6.4 billion   to   $8.0 billion   for   2012   compared to   2011  . The improvement was primarily in the consumer real estate loan portfolios due to improved portfolio trends and an improved home price outlook in our PCI portfolios. The provision for credit losses related to the PCI loan portfolios was a provision   benefit   of   $103 million   in   2012   as the home price outlook improved, compared to a provision   expense   of   $2.2 billion   in   2011  . 
  The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including the unfunded lending commitments,   increased     $1.1 billion   to   $197 million   in   2012   compared to   2011   due to stabilization of credit quality, loan growth and a higher volume of loan resolutions in the prior year, all within the core commercial portfolio. 
    Allowance for Credit Losses 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two components. The first component covers nonperforming commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the total of these two components, each of which is described in more detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes LHFS and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the fair value reflects a credit risk component. 
  The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers both the nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject to impairment measurement based on the present value of projected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan s observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for the renegotiated credit card, unsecured consumer and small business TDR portfolios is based on the present value of projected cash flows discounted using the average portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical loss experience for the respective product types and risk ratings of the loans. 
  The second component of the allowance for loan and lease  

losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and leases that have incurred losses which are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends and credit scores. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or CLTV, and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of   December 31, 2012  , the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance for all major consumer portfolios. 
  The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience by internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated at least quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the LGD based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor s liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor s credit risk. As of   December 31, 2012  , updates to the loan risk ratings and portfolio composition resulted in reductions in the allowance for the commercial real estate, U.S. commercial and commercial lease financing portfolios. 
  Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans and the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. We also consider factors that are applicable to unique portfolio segments. For example, we consider the risk of uncertainty in our loss forecasting models related to junior-lien home equity loans that are current, but have first-lien loans that we do not service that are 30 days or more past due. In addition, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data. 

During   2012  , the factors that impacted the allowance for loan and lease losses included significant overall improvements in the credit quality of the portfolios driven by improvements in the U.S. economy and labor markets, proactive credit risk management initiatives and the impact of recent higher credit quality originations. Additionally, the resolution of uncertainties through current recognition of net charge-offs, specifically in the home loans portfolios, has impacted the amount of reserve needed in that portfolio. Evidencing the improvements in the U.S. economy and labor markets are modest growth in consumer spending, improvements in unemployment levels, a decrease in the absolute level and our share of national consumer bankruptcy filings, a rise in both residential building activity and overall home prices. In addition to these improvements, paydowns, charge-offs and returns to performing status and upgrades out of criticized continued to outpace new nonaccrual consumer loans and reservable criticized commercial loans, but such loans remained elevated relative to levels experienced prior to the financial crisis.  
  We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios. 
  Additions to, or reductions of, the allowance for loan and lease losses generally are recorded through charges or credits to the provision for credit losses. Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan and lease losses. Recoveries of previously charged off amounts are credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses. 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in   Table 61  , was   $21.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , a   decrease   of   $8.6 billion   from   December 31, 2011  . The   decrease   in the home equity and residential mortgage allowance was primarily driven by improved delinquencies and home prices as evidenced by improving LTV statistics as presented in Tables   25   and   27  . In addition, the home equity allowance declined due to reduced exposures to current junior-lien loans that we estimate had a first-lien loan that was 90 days or more past due. Also, the home equity allowance related to the PCI portfolio declined   $2.7 billion   primarily due to the  

forgiveness of fully reserved home equity loans in connection with the National Mortgage Settlement.  
  The decrease in the allowance related to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   CBB   was primarily due to improvement in delinquencies and bankruptcies. For example, in the U.S. credit card portfolio, accruing loans 30 days or more past due   decreased   to   $2.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012   from   $3.8 billion   (to   2.90 percent   from   3.74 percent   of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at   December 31, 2011  , and accruing loans 90 days or more past due   decreased   to   $1.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012   from   $2.1 billion   (to   1.52 percent   from   2.02 percent   of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) over the same period. See Tables   22  ,   23  ,   25  ,   27  ,   33   and   35   for additional details on key consumer credit statistics. 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio as presented in   Table 61   was   $3.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , a   decrease   of   $1.0 billion   from   December 31, 2011  . The   decrease   was driven by continued improvement in the credit quality of the core commercial portfolio. For example, the commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure   decreased   to   $15.9 billion   at   December 31, 2012   from   $27.2 billion   (to   4.10 percent   from   7.41 percent   of total commercial utilized reservable exposure) at   December 31, 2011  . Similarly, nonperforming commercial loans   declined   to   $3.2 billion   at   December 31, 2012   from   $6.3 billion   (to   0.93 percent   from   2.04 percent   of outstanding commercial loans) at   December 31, 2011  . See Tables   39  ,   40   and   42   for additional details on key commercial credit statistics. 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was   2.69 percent   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   3.68 percent   at   December 31, 2011  . The   decrease   in the ratio was largely due to improved credit quality driven by improved economic conditions and the home equity PCI loans that were forgiven which led to the reduction in the allowance for credit losses discussed above. The   December 31, 2012 and 2011   ratios above include the PCI loan portfolio. Excluding the PCI loan portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was   2.14 percent   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   2.86 percent   at   December 31, 2011  . 

Table 60   presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses for   2012   and   2011  . 

(3)   
    Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, and foreign currency translation adjustments. In addition, the 2011 amount includes a   $449 million   reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses related to Canadian consumer card loans that were transferred to LHFS. 
               (4)   
    Primarily represents accretion of the Merrill Lynch purchase accounting adjustment and the impact of funding previously unfunded positions. 

(5)   
    Outstanding loan and lease balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. Loans accounted for under the fair value option were   $9.0 billion   and   $8.8 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Average loans accounted for under the fair value option were   $8.4 billion   in both   2012   and   2011  . 
                 (8)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
                (10)   
    For more information on our definition of nonperforming loans, see pages   93   and   101  . 
               (11)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   CBB  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (12)   
    For more information on the PCI loan portfolio and the valuation allowance for PCI loans, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases   and   Note 6   Allowance for Credit Losses     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
     For reporting purposes, we allocate the allowance for credit losses across products. However, the allowance is generally available to absorb any credit losses without restriction.   Table 61   presents our allocation by product type. 

(1)   
    Ratios are calculated as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option included residential mortgage loans of   $147 million   and   $906 million   and discontinued real estate of   $858 million   and   $1.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option included U.S. commercial loans of   $2.3 billion   and   $2.2 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $5.7 billion   and   $4.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 
  In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers  acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of the Corporation s historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded EAD. The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models. 
  The reserve for unfunded lending commitments at   December 31, 2012   was   $513 million  ,   $201 million     lower   than   December 31, 2011   driven by improved credit quality in the unfunded portfolio and accretion of purchase accounting adjustments on acquired Merrill Lynch unfunded positions. 
    Market Risk Management 
  Market risk is the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and/or activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, and derivatives. Market-sensitive assets and liabilities are generated through loans and deposits associated with our traditional banking business, customer and other trading operations, the ALM process, credit risk mitigation activities and mortgage banking activities. In the event of market volatility, factors such as underlying market movements and liquidity have an impact on the results of the Corporation. 
  Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are nontrading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, primarily changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our nontrading positions is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option. For further information on the fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes currently reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various risk factors, which include exposures to interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as mortgage, equity, commodity, issuer, credit and market liquidity risk factors. We seek to mitigate these risk exposures by using techniques that encompass a variety of financial instruments in both the cash and derivatives markets. The following discusses the key risk components along with respective risk mitigation techniques. 

Interest Rate Risk 
  Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps. 
  Foreign Exchange Risk 
  Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits. 
  Mortgage Risk 
  Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the value of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. First, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including CDOs using mortgages as underlying collateral. Second, we originate a variety of MBS which involves the accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization. Third, we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. Fourth, we create MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. See   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for additional information on MSRs. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include contracts and derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards. 
  Equity Market Risk 
  Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions. 

Commodity Risk 
  Commodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions. 
  Issuer Credit Risk 
  Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments. 
  Market Liquidity Risk 
  Market liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management. 

Trading Risk Management 
  Trading-related revenues represent the amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities and derivative positions are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . Trading-related revenues can be volatile and are largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenues are dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. 
  The Global Markets Risk Committee (GMRC), chaired by the Global Markets Risk Executive, has been designated by ALMRC as the primary governance authority for global markets risk management including trading risk management. The GMRC s focus is to take a forward-looking view of the primary credit and market risks impacting   Global Markets   and prioritize those that need a proactive risk mitigation strategy. Market risks that impact businesses outside of   Global Markets   are monitored and governed by their respective governance authorities. 
  The GMRC monitors significant daily revenues and losses by business and the primary drivers of the revenues or losses. Thresholds are in place for each of our businesses in order to determine if the revenue or loss is considered to be significant for that business. If any of the thresholds are exceeded, an explanation of the variance is provided to the GMRC. The thresholds are developed in coordination with the respective risk managers to highlight those revenues or losses that exceed what is considered to be normal daily income statement volatility. 

The histogram below is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for   2012   and   2011  . During   2012  , positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent, or 243 of the 249 trading days of which 80 percent (199 days) were daily trading gains of over $25 million, less than one percent (1 day) of the trading days had losses greater  

than $25 million and the largest loss was $50 million. This is compared to   2011  , where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 86 percent, or 214 of the 250 trading days of which 66 percent (165 days) were daily trading gains of over $25 million, five percent (12 days) of the trading days had losses greater than $25 million and the largest loss was $119 million. 

To evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of individual positions as well as portfolios. VaR is a key statistic used to measure market risk. In order to manage day-to-day risks, VaR is subject to trading limits both for our overall trading portfolio and within individual businesses. All trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. 
  A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience within a given confidence level based on historical data. With any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. In addition, the accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the positions in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have extensive historical price data or for illiquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. 

A VaR model is an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses on our trading portfolios. There are, however, many limitations inherent in a VaR model as it utilizes historical results over a defined time period to estimate future performance. Historical results may not always be indicative of future results and changes in market conditions or in the composition of the underlying portfolio could have a material impact on the accuracy of the VaR model. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a bi-weekly basis and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. Our VaR model utilizes three years of historical data. This time period was chosen to ensure that VaR reflects both a broad range of market movements as well as being sensitive to recent changes in market volatility. In addition, certain types of risks associated with positions that are illiquid and/or unobservable are not included in VaR. If these risks are determined to be material, the VaR model results will be supplemented. 

We continually review, evaluate and enhance our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate governance committees. Nevertheless, due to the limitations previously discussed, we have historically used the VaR model as only one of the components in managing our trading risk and also use other techniques such as stress testing and desk level limits. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. 
  The accuracy of the VaR methodology is reviewed by backtesting which compares the VaR results from historical data against the actual daily profit and loss. Graphic representation of the backtesting results with additional explanation of backtesting excesses are reported to the GMRC. Backtesting excesses occur when trading losses exceed VaR. Senior management reviews and evaluates the results of these tests. In periods of market stress,  

the GMRC members communicate daily to discuss losses and VaR limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk. Where economically feasible, positions are sold or macroeconomic hedges are executed to reduce the exposure. 
  We use one VaR model that uses a historical simulation approach based on three years of historical data and an expected shortfall methodology equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level. Statistically, this means that losses will exceed VaR, on average, one out of 100 trading days, or two to three times each year. The number of actual backtesting excesses observed is dependent on current market performance relative to historic market volatility. Actual losses did not exceed daily trading VaR in   2012   or   2011  . The graph below shows daily trading-related revenue and VaR for   2012  . The large gains in daily trading-related revenue reflected near the end of the year, are due in part to above average activity in the markets leading up to news about the fiscal cliff. 

Table 62   presents average, high and low daily trading VaR for   2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    The high and low for the total portfolio may not equal the sum of the individual components as the highs or lows of the individual portfolios may have occurred on different trading days. 

The   $92 million   decrease in average VaR during   2012   was driven by reduced risk across most asset classes, with the largest reductions coming from the credit, real estate/mortgage and equities asset classes. In addition, volatile market data from 2008, which was a material contribution to the 2011 average, was no longer included in the three-year historical dataset for the 2012 average.  
  Counterparty credit risk is an adjustment to the mark-to-market value of our derivative exposures to reflect the impact of the credit quality of counterparties on our derivative assets. Since counterparty credit exposure is not included in the VaR component of the regulatory capital allocation, we do not include it in our trading VaR, and it is therefore not included in the daily trading-related revenue illustrated in our histogram or used for backtesting. 
  Trading Portfolio Stress Testing 
  Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited lookback window, we also stress test our portfolio. Stress testing estimates the value change in our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements. Various scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are regularly run and reported for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of price changes that occurred during a set of extended historical market events. Generally, a 10-business-day window or longer, representing the most severe point during a crisis, is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide simulations of anticipated shocks from pre-defined market stress events. These stress events include shocks to underlying market risk variables which may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. As with the historical scenarios, the hypothetical scenarios are designed to represent a short-term market disruption. Scenarios are reviewed and updated as necessary in light of changing positions and new economic or political information. For example, we currently include stress tests that contemplate a full or partial break-up of the Eurozone. In addition to the value afforded by the results themselves, this information provides senior management with a clear picture of the trend of risk being taken given the relatively static nature of the shocks applied. Stress testing for the trading portfolio is also integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. A process is in place to promote consistency between the scenarios used for the trading portfolio and those used for enterprise-wide stress testing. The scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital  

and liquidity planning. For additional information on enterprise-wide stress testing, see page   68  . 
    Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities 
  The following discussion presents net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities. 
  Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our nontrading balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential volatility in net interest income caused by changes in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet. 
  We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor our balance sheet position in an effort to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes. 
  The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing and maturity characteristics, but do not include the impact of hedge ineffectiveness. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect core net interest income and capital. 
  The spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecast at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are presented in   Table 63  . 

Table 64   shows the pre-tax dollar impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate the scenarios presented to ensure that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment. For more information, see Net Interest Income Excluding Trading-related Net Interest Income on page   36  . 

The sensitivity analysis in   Table 64   assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks. Our net interest income was asset sensitive to a parallel move in interest rates at both   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.  
  Securities 
  The securities portfolio is an integral part of our ALM positioning and is primarily comprised of debt securities including MBS and to a lesser extent U.S. Treasury, corporate, municipal and other debt securities. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , we held AFS debt securities with a fair value of   $286.9 billion   and   $276.2 billion  . During   2012   and   2011  , we purchased AFS debt and other securities of   $164.5 billion   and   $99.5 billion  , sold   $72.4 billion   and   $116.8 billion  , and had maturities and received paydowns of   $71.5 billion   and   $56.7 billion  . We realized   $1.7 billion   and   $3.4 billion   in net gains on sales of debt securities during   2012   and   2011  . At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , we held   $49.5 billion   and   $35.3 billion   of held-to-maturity securities and $14.5 billion of other securities classified as other assets. There were no securities classified as other assets during 2011. 
  Accumulated OCI included after-tax net unrealized gains of   $4.4 billion   and   $3.1 billion   on AFS debt securities and   $462 million   and   $3 million   on AFS marketable equity securities at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . For additional information on accumulated OCI, see   Note 15   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . The amount of pre-tax net unrealized gains on AFS debt securities increased   $2.1 billion   during   2012   to   $7.0 billion  , primarily due to the impact of lower rates. For additional information on our securities portfolio, see   Note 4   Securities     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

We recognized   $53 million   of other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses in earnings on AFS debt securities in   2012   compared to   $299 million   in   2011  . The recognition of OTTI is based on a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than amortized cost, the financial condition of the issuer of the security including credit ratings and any specific events affecting the operations of the issuer, underlying assets that collateralize the debt security, other industry and macroeconomic conditions, and our intent and ability to hold the security to recovery. 
  Residential Mortgage Portfolio 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , our residential mortgage portfolio was   $243.2 billion   and   $262.3 billion   which excluded   $9.9 billion   and   $11.1 billion   of discontinued real estate loans and   $1.0 billion   and   $2.2 billion   of consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on consumer fair value option loans, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option   on page   93  . The   $19.1 billion     decrease   in   2012   was due to paydowns, charge-offs and transfers to foreclosed properties which more than offset new origination volume and repurchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA. 
  During   2012  ,   CRES   and   GWIM   originated $35.4 billion in first-lien mortgages that we retained compared to $45.5 billion in   2011  . Additionally, we repurchased $8.2 billion of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA compared to repurchases of $7.8 billion in 2011. We received paydowns of $53.0 billion in 2012 compared to paydowns of $42.3 billion in   2011  . There were no purchases of residential mortgages related to ALM activities in   2012   compared to $72 million in   2011  . We sold $305 million of residential mortgages in   2012   compared to $109 million in   2011  , all of which were originated residential mortgages. Gains recognized on the sales of residential mortgages in both periods were minimal. 
  Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative Contracts 
  Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For additional information on our hedging activities, see   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.  
  Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during   2012   reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.  

Table 65   presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities including those designated as accounting and market risk hedging instruments and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and  

average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs. 

(2)   
    Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities which are hedged using derivatives designated as fair value hedging instruments that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives. 
               (3)   
    At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the notional amount of same-currency basis swaps consisted of   $213.5 billion   and   $222.6 billion   in both foreign currency and U.S. dollar-denominated basis swaps in which both sides of the swap are in the same currency. 
               (4)   
    Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps. 
               (5)   
    Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives. 
                (7)   
    Reflects the net of long and short positions. 
               (8)   
    The notional amount of foreign exchange contracts of   $(1.2) billion   at   December 31, 2012   was comprised of   $41.9 billion   in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps,   $10.5 billion   in foreign currency-denominated pay-fixed swaps, and   $(32.6) billion   in net foreign currency forward rate contracts. Foreign exchange contracts of   $52.3 billion   at   December 31, 2011   were comprised of   $40.6 billion   in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps,   $647 million   in foreign currency-denominated pay-fixed swaps and   $12.4 billion   in net foreign currency forward rate contracts.  

We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax, were   $2.9 billion   and   $3.8 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at   December 31, 2012  , the pre-tax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: $1.0 billion, or 22 percent within the next year, 58 percent in years two through five, and 13 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining seven percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see   Note 3   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps, foreign exchange options and foreign currency-denominated debt. We recorded after-tax gains on derivatives and foreign currency-denominated debt in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by losses on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at   December 31, 2012  . 
    Mortgage Banking Risk Management 
  We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be HFI or held-for-sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate. 
  Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Fluctuations in interest rates drive consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity, which in turn, affects total origination and service fee income. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees and a decrease in the value of the MSRs driven by higher prepayment expectations. Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires complex modeling and ongoing monitoring. IRLCs and the related residential first mortgage LHFS are subject to interest rate risk between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market. To hedge interest rate risk, we utilize forward loan sale commitments and other derivative instruments including purchased options. These instruments are used to hedge certain market risks of IRLCs and residential first mortgage LHFS. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the notional amount of derivatives economically hedging the IRLCs and residential first mortgage LHFS was $31.1 billion and $14.7 billion. 
  MSRs are nonfinancial assets created when the underlying mortgage loan is sold to investors and we retain the right to service the loan. We use certain derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward settlement contracts and Eurodollar futures, as well as MBS and U.S. Treasuries to hedge certain market risks of MSRs. The notional amounts of the derivative  

contracts and principal value of other securities hedging the MSRs were $2.5 trillion and $31.3 billion at   December 31, 2012   compared to $2.6 trillion and $46.3 billion at   December 31, 2011  . In   2012  , we recorded gains in mortgage banking income of $2.3 billion related to the change in fair value of the derivative contracts and other securities used to hedge the market risks of the MSRs compared to $6.3 billion for   2011  . For additional information on MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and for more information on mortgage banking income, see   CRES   on page   41  . 
    Compliance Risk Management 
  Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure to comply with requirements applicable to banking and financial services laws, rules and regulations. Compliance is at the core of the Corporation s culture and is a key component of risk management discipline. 
  The Global Compliance organization is responsible for driving a culture of compliance; establishing compliance program requirements and related policies; executing the monitoring and testing of business controls; performing risk assessments on the businesses  adherence to laws, rules and regulations as well as the effectiveness of business controls; overseeing remediation of compliance risks and issues executed by the businesses and supporting the identification, escalation and reporting of current, emerging and reputational compliance risk matters to senior management and the Board (or appropriate committee). Global Compliance is also responsible for facilitating processes to effectively manage regulatory changes and maintain constructive relationships with regulators. 
  The Board provides oversight of compliance risks through its Audit Committee. 
    Operational Risk Management 
  The Corporation defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, not solely in operations functions, and its effects may extend beyond financial losses. Operational risk includes legal risk. Successful operational risk management is particularly important to diversified financial services companies because of the nature, volume and complexity of the financial services business. Global banking guidelines and country-specific requirements for managing operational risk were established in Basel 2 which requires that the Corporation has internal operational risk management processes to assess and measure operational risk exposure and to set aside appropriate capital to address those exposures. 
  Under the advanced measurement rules of the Basel 2 Framework, an operational loss event is an event that results in a loss and is associated with any of the following seven operational loss event categories: internal fraud; external fraud; employment practices and workplace safety; clients, products and business practices; damage to physical assets; business disruption and system failures; and execution, delivery and process management. Specific examples of loss events include robberies, credit card fraud, processing errors and physical losses from natural disasters. 

We approach operational risk management from two perspectives to manage operational risk within the structure of the Corporation: (1) at the enterprise level to provide independent, integrated management of operational risk across the organization, and (2) at the business and enterprise control function levels to address operational risk in revenue producing and non-revenue producing units. The Operational Risk Management Program incorporates the overarching processes for identifying, measuring, mitigating, controlling, monitoring, testing, reviewing operational risk, and reporting operational risk information to management and the Board. A sound internal governance structure enhances the effectiveness of the Corporation s Operational Risk Management Program and is accomplished at the enterprise level through formal oversight by the Board, the CRO and a variety of management committees and risk oversight groups aligned to the Corporation s overall risk governance framework and practices. Of these, the Compliance and Operational Risk Committee (CORC) oversees the Corporation s policies and processes for sound operational risk management. The CORC also serves as an escalation point for critical operational risk matters within the Corporation. The CORC reports operational risk activities to the Enterprise Risk Committee of the Board. 
  Within the Global Risk Management organization, the Corporate Operational Risk team develops and guides the strategies, policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for assessing and managing operational risks across the organization and reports results to businesses, enterprise control functions, senior management, governance committees and the Board. 
  Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. An annual Audit Plan ensures that coverage activities address the significant aspects of the Corporation s risk profile. Risk assessments incorporating operational risk are completed within the audit planning process.  
  The business and enterprise control functions are responsible for managing all the risks within their units, including operational risks. In addition to enterprise risk management tools such as loss reporting, scenario analysis and RCSAs, operational risk executives, working in conjunction with senior business executives, have developed key tools to help identify, measure, mitigate and monitor risk in each business and enterprise control function. Examples of these include personnel management practices; data reconciliation processes; fraud management units; transaction processing, monitoring and analysis; business recovery planning; and new product introduction processes. The business and enterprise control functions are also responsible for consistently implementing, and monitoring adherence to, corporate practices.  
  Business and enterprise control function management uses the enterprise RCSA process to identify and evaluate the status of risk and control issues, including mitigation plans, as appropriate. The goals of this process are to assess changing market and business conditions, evaluate key risks impacting each business and enterprise control function and assess the controls in place to mitigate the risks. The RCSA process is documented at periodic intervals. Key operational risk indicators for these risks have been developed and are used to help identify trends and issues on an enterprise, business and enterprise control function level. Independent review and challenge to the Corporation s overall operational risk management framework is performed by the Corporate Operational Risk Validation Team. 

Enterprise control functions have risk governance and control responsibilities for their enterprise programs (e.g., Global Technology and Operations Group, Chief Financial Officer Group, Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs, Global Human Resources). They provide insights on day-to-day risk activities throughout the Company by overseeing and managing the performance of their functions against Company-wide expectations. The enterprise control functions participate in the operational risk management process in two ways. First, these organizations manage risk in their functional department. Second, they provide specialized risk management services (e.g., information management, vendor management) within their area of expertise to the enterprise, businesses and other enterprise control functions they support. These groups also work with business and risk executives to develop and guide appropriate strategies, policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for each business and enterprise control function relative to these programs. 
  Additionally, where appropriate, insurance policies are purchased to mitigate the impact of operational losses. These insurance policies are explicitly incorporated in the structural features of operational risk evaluation. As insurance recoveries, especially given recent market events, are subject to legal and financial uncertainty, the inclusion of these insurance policies is subject to reductions in their expected mitigating benefits. 
    Complex Accounting Estimates 
  Our significant accounting principles, as described in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   are essential in understanding the MD A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments. 
  The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs. 
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
  The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation s loan portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. Changes to the allowance for credit losses are reported in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income in the provision for credit  

losses. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . We evaluate our allowance at the portfolio segment level and our portfolio segments are Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. Due to the variability in the drivers of the assumptions used in this process, estimates of the portfolio s inherent risks and overall collectability change with changes in the economy, individual industries, countries, and borrowers  ability and willingness to repay their obligations. The degree to which any particular assumption affects the allowance for credit losses depends on the severity of the change and its relationship to the other assumptions. 
  Key judgments used in determining the allowance for credit losses include risk ratings for pools of commercial loans and leases, market and collateral values and discount rates for individually evaluated loans, product type classifications for consumer and commercial loans and leases, loss rates used for consumer and commercial loans and leases, adjustments made to address current events and conditions, considerations regarding domestic and global economic uncertainty, and overall credit conditions. 
  Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Home Loans and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Home Loans portfolio segment, excluding PCI loans, coupled with a one percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at   December 31, 2012   would have increased by $147 million. PCI loans within our Home Loans portfolio segment are initially recorded at fair value. Applicable accounting guidance prohibits carry-over or creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting. However, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows from the date of acquisition result in a charge to the provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to the allowance for loan and lease losses. We subject our PCI portfolio to stress scenarios to evaluate the potential impact given certain events. A one percent decrease in the expected cash flows could result in a $208 million impairment of the portfolio, of which $99 million would be related to our discontinued real estate portfolio. For each one percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial portfolio coupled with a one percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within the portfolio segment and the U.S. small business commercial portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses at   December 31, 2012   would have increased by $60 million. 
  Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already risk-rated Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased by $2.2 billion at   December 31, 2012  . 

The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at   December 31, 2012   was   2.69 percent   and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 2.98 percent. 
  These sensitivity analyses do not represent management s expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote. 
  The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions. 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  MSRs are nonfinancial assets that are created when a mortgage loan is sold and we retain the right to service the loan. We account for consumer MSRs at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income in mortgage banking income (loss). Commercial and residential reverse mortgage MSRs are accounted for using the amortization method, lower of cost or market value, with impairment recognized as a reduction of mortgage banking income (loss). At   December 31, 2012  , our total MSR balance was   $5.9 billion  . 
  We determine the fair value of our consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates key economic assumptions including estimates of prepayment rates and resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs, and the option-adjusted spread levels. These variables can, and generally do, change from quarter to quarter as market conditions and projected interest rates change. These assumptions are subjective in nature and changes in these assumptions could materially affect our operating results. For example, decreasing the prepayment rate assumption used in the valuation of our consumer MSRs by 10 percent while keeping all other assumptions unchanged could have resulted in an estimated increase of   $510 million   in MSRs and mortgage banking income (loss) at   December 31, 2012  . This impact does not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk. 
  We manage potential changes in the fair value of MSRs through a comprehensive risk management program. The intent is to mitigate the effects of changes in the fair value of MSRs through the use of risk management instruments. To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, securities including MBS and U.S. Treasuries, as well as certain derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, but are not designated as accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage banking income (loss). For more information, see   Mortgage Banking Risk Management   on page   120  . 
  For additional information on MSRs, including the sensitivity of weighted-average lives and the fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  We classify the fair values of financial instruments based on the fair value hierarchy under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Applicable accounting guidance establishes three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. We carry trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, certain MSRs and certain other assets at fair value. Also, we account for certain loans and loan commitments, LHFS, other short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits and long-term debt under the fair value option. For more information, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is tempered by the knowledge of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. Similarly, broker quotes that are executable are given a higher level of reliance than indicative broker quotes, which are not executable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. 
  Trading account assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based primarily on actively traded markets where prices are from either direct market quotes or observed transactions. Liquidity is a significant factor in the determination of the fair value of trading account assets and liabilities. Market price quotes may not be readily available for some positions, or positions within a market sector where trading activity has slowed significantly or ceased. Situations of illiquidity generally are triggered by market perception of credit uncertainty regarding a single company or a specific market sector. In these instances, fair value is determined based on limited available market information and other factors,  

principally from reviewing the issuer s financial statements and changes in credit ratings made by one or more of the rating agencies. 
  Trading account profits, which represent the net amount earned from our trading positions, can be volatile and are largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Trading account profits are dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. To evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of individual positions as well as portfolios. At a portfolio and corporate level, we use trading limits, stress testing and tools such as VaR modeling, which estimates a potential daily loss that we do not expect to exceed with a specified confidence level, to measure and manage market risk. For more information on VaR, see   Trading Risk Management   on page   114  . 
  The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities traded in the OTC market are determined using quantitative models that require the use of multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and indices to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and volatility factors, which are used to value the positions. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. Estimation risk is greater for derivative asset and liability positions that are either option-based or have longer maturity dates where observable market inputs are less readily available or are unobservable, in which case quantitative-based extrapolations of rate, price or index scenarios are used in determining fair values. The Corporation incorporates within its fair value measurements of OTC derivatives a valuation adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net position. Positions are netted by counterparty and fair value for net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit risk while the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for our own credit risk. The credit adjustments are determined by reference to existing direct market reference costs of credit, or where direct references are not available, a proxy is applied consistent with direct references for other counterparties that are similar in credit risk. An estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of fair value, primarily based on market implied experience adjusted for any more recent name specific expectations. 
  Level 3 Assets and Liabilities 
  Financial assets and liabilities whose values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting guidance. The Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include certain loans, MBS, ABS, CDOs and structured liabilities, as well as highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts, private equity investments and consumer MSRs. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 

(1)   
    Level 3 total assets and liabilities are shown before the impact of counterparty netting related to our derivative positions. 
       During   2012  , we recognized net gains of   $136 million   on Level 3 assets and liabilities. The net gains were primarily gains on trading account assets, LHFS, and loans and leases, offset by losses on MSRs, long-term debt and net derivative assets. Unrealized gains on trading account assets were primarily due to mark-to-market gains on collateralized loan obligation positions due to strong market conditions, as well as mark-to-market gains on secondary loan positions held in inventory. Unrealized gains on LHFS were due to improved market conditions for mortgage whole loans in EMEA. Unrealized gains on loans and leases were due to an overall improvement in housing prices and lower loss severity. Unrealized losses on MSRs were primarily due to the impact of the decline in interest rates on forecasted prepayments. Unrealized losses on long-term debt were the result of improved credit spreads throughout the year. Losses on net derivative assets were primarily due to tightening spreads on credit derivatives and in the RMBS indices, as well as mark-to-market movement in various equity instruments, offset by mortgage production gains. There were net unrealized gains of   $65 million   in accumulated OCI on Level 3 assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2012  . For additional information on the components of net realized and unrealized gains and losses during   2012  , see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Level 3 financial instruments, such as our consumer MSRs, may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital resources. 
  We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For additional information on the significant transfers into and out of Level 3 during   2012  , see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Global Principal Investments 
  GPI is included within Equity Investments in   All Other   on page   52  . GPI is comprised of a diversified portfolio of private equity, real estate and other alternative investments in both privately-held and publicly-traded companies. These investments are made either directly in a company or held through a fund. At   December 31, 2012  , this portfolio totaled   $3.5 billion   including $2.2 billion of non-public investments. 
  Certain equity investments in the portfolio are subject to investment company accounting under applicable accounting guidance, and accordingly, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in equity investment income. Initially the transaction price of the investment is generally considered to be the best indicator of fair value. Thereafter, valuation of direct investments is based on an assessment of each individual investment using methodologies that include publicly-traded comparables derived by multiplying a key performance metric (e.g., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) of the portfolio company by the relevant valuation multiple observed for comparable companies, acquisition comparables, entry-level multiples and discounted cash flows, and are subject to appropriate discounts for lack of liquidity or marketability. Certain factors that may influence changes in fair value include but are not limited to, recapitalizations, subsequent rounds of financing and offerings in the equity or debt capital markets. For fund investments, we generally record the fair value of our proportionate interest in the fund s capital as reported by the fund s respective managers. 
  Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets 
  Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100 jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance  ,   in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction. 

In applying the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies, may be material to our operating results for any given period. 
  Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts we estimate are more-likely-than-not to be realized. 
  While we have established some valuation allowances for certain state and non-U.S. deferred tax assets, we have concluded that our various estimates of future t  axable income will be sufficient to realize all U.S. federal and U.K. deferred tax assets, including NOL and tax credit carryforwards, that are not subject to any special limitations (such as change-in-control limitations) prior to any expiration. The majority of our U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are realizable by subsidiaries that have a recent history of cumulative losses. These deferred tax assets related to NOLs will be realized over an extended number of years. Significant decreases to our estimates of future taxable income could materially change our conclusions about how much of our tax attributes and other deferred tax assets are more-likely-than-not to be realized prior to their expiration. See   Note 20   Income Taxes     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. 
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Background 
  The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 9   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . Goodwill is reviewed for potential impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which for the Corporation is performed as of June 30, and in interim periods if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below. As reporting units are determined after an acquisition or evolve with changes in business strategy, goodwill is assigned to reporting units and it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition. All of the revenue streams and related activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organic, are available to support the value of the goodwill. 
  We use the reporting units  allocated equity as a proxy for the carrying amount of equity for each reporting unit in our goodwill impairment tests as we do not maintain a record of equity as defined under GAAP at the reporting unit level. Allocated equity includes economic capital, goodwill and a percentage of intangible assets allocated to the reporting units. The allocation of economic capital to the reporting units utilized for goodwill impairment  

testing has the same basis as the allocation of economic capital to our operating segments. Economic capital allocation plans are incorporated into the Corporation s financial plan which is approved by the Board on an annual basis. Allocated equity is updated on a quarterly basis. 
  The Corporation s common stock price remained low during 2012 and 2011. During these periods, our market capitalization remained below our recorded book value. We estimate that the fair value of all reporting units with assigned goodwill in aggregate as of the June 30,   2012   annual goodwill impairment test was $219.5 billion and the aggregate carrying value of all reporting units with assigned goodwill, as measured by allocated equity was $138.4 billion. The common stock market capitalization of the Corporation at June 30,   2012   was   $88.2 billion   (  $125.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012  ). As none of our reporting units are publicly-traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations do not directly correlate to the Corporation s stock price. Although we believe it is reasonable to conclude that market capitalization could be an indicator of fair value over time, we do not believe that our current market capitalization reflects the aggregate fair value of our individual reporting units. 
  Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. We determined the fair values of the reporting units using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach and also utilized independent valuation specialists. 
  The market approach we used estimates the fair value of the individual reporting units by incorporating any combination of the tangible capital, book capital and earnings multiples from comparable publicly-traded companies in industries similar to that of the reporting unit. The relative weight assigned to these multiples varies among the reporting units based on qualitative and quantitative characteristics, primarily the size and relative profitability of the reporting unit as compared to the comparable publicly-traded companies. Since the fair values determined under the market approach are representative of a noncontrolling interest, we added a control premium to arrive at the reporting units  estimated fair values on a controlling basis. 
  For purposes of the income approach, we calculated discounted cash flows by taking the net present value of estimated future cash flows and an appropriate terminal value. Our discounted cash flow analysis employs a capital asset pricing model in estimating the discount rate (i.e., cost of equity financing) for each reporting unit. The inputs to this model include the risk-free rate of return, beta, which is a measure of the level of non-diversifiable risk associated with comparable companies for each specific reporting unit, market equity risk premium and in certain cases an unsystematic (company-specific) risk factor. The unsystematic risk factor is the input that specifically addresses uncertainty related to our projections of earnings and growth, including the uncertainty related to loss expectations. We utilized discount rates that we believe adequately reflect the risk and uncertainty in the financial markets generally and specifically in our internally developed forecasts. We estimated expected rates of equity returns based on historical market returns and risk/return rates for similar industries of each reporting unit. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and actual results may differ from forecasted results. 

In   2012  , the IWM businesses within   GWIM  , including   $230 million   of goodwill, were moved to   All Other   in connection with the agreement we entered into during 2012 to sell these businesses. Prior periods have been reclassified.  
  2012   Annual Impairment Test  
  During the three months ended September 30,   2012  , we completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30,   2012   for all of our reporting units which had goodwill. Additionally, we also evaluated the U.K. Card business within   All Other   as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in   All Other  . In performing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment test, we compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its estimated carrying value as measured by allocated equity, including goodwill. To determine fair value, we utilized a combination of the market approach and income approach. Under the market approach, we compared earnings and equity multiples of the individual reporting units to multiples of public companies comparable to the individual reporting units. The control premium used in the June 30,   2012   annual goodwill impairment test was 35 percent for all reporting units. Under the income approach, we updated our assumptions to reflect the current market environment. The discount rates used in the June 30,   2012   annual goodwill impairment test ranged from 11 percent to 14 percent depending on the relative risk of a reporting unit. Growth rates developed by management for individual revenue and expense items in each reporting unit ranged from (0.2) percent to 7.2 percent. For certain revenue and expense items that have been significantly affected by the current economic environment, management developed separate long-term forecasts.  
  Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their respective fair values exceeded their carrying values indicating there was no impairment.  
  2011   Impairment Tests 
  During the three months ended December 31,   2011  , a goodwill impairment test was performed for the European consumer card 
  businesses reporting unit within   All Other   as it was likely that the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeded the fair value due to a decrease in estimated future growth projections. We concluded that goodwill was impaired, and accordingly, recorded a goodwill impairment charge of   $581 million  . 
  During the three months ended June 30,   2011  , as a consequence of the BNY Mellon Settlement entered into by the Corporation on June 28,   2011  , the adverse impact of the incremental mortgage-related charges and the continued economic slowdown in the mortgage business, we performed a goodwill impairment test for the   CRES   reporting unit. We concluded  

that the remaining balance of goodwill of   $2.6 billion   was impaired, and accordingly, recorded a goodwill impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill in   CRES   to   zero  . 
  Representations and Warranties 
  The methodology used to estimate the liability for obligations under representations and warranties related to transfers of residential mortgage loans is a function of the representations and warranties given and considers a variety of factors. Depending upon the counterparty, these factors include actual defaults, estimated future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices, other economic conditions, estimated probability that we will receive a repurchase request, including consideration of whether presentation thresholds will be met, number of payments made by the borrower prior to default and estimated probability that we will be required to repurchase a loan. It also considers other relevant facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements and identity of the counterparty or type of counterparty, as appropriate. The estimate of the liability for obligations under representations and warranties is based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors, including those set forth above, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate of our liability. 
  The representations and warranties provision may vary significantly each period as the methodology used to estimate the expense continues to be refined based on the level and type of repurchase requests presented, defects identified, the latest experience gained on repurchase requests, and other relevant facts and circumstances. The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties is sensitive to future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate. An assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of   10   percent in estimated future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate would result in an increase of approximately   $850 million   or decrease of approximately   $750 million   in the representations and warranties liability as of   December 31, 2012  , excluding amounts related to the FNMA Settlement. These sensitivities are hypothetical and are intended to provide an indication of the impact of a significant change in these key assumptions on the representations and warranties liability. In reality, changes in one assumption may result in changes in other assumptions, which may or may not counteract the sensitivity. 
  For additional information on representations and warranties exposure and the corresponding range of possible loss, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   54  , as well as   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees   and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Litigation Reserve 
  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation establishes an accrued liability for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable and estimable. In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. When a loss contingency is not both probable and estimable, the Corporation does not establish an accrued liability. As a litigation or regulatory matter develops, the Corporation, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, evaluates on an ongoing basis whether such matter presents a loss contingency that is both probable and estimable. If, at the time of evaluation, the loss contingency related to a litigation or regulatory matter is not both probable and estimable, the matter will continue to be monitored for further developments that would make such loss contingency both probable and estimable. Once the loss contingency related to a litigation or regulatory matter is deemed to be both probable and estimable, the Corporation will establish an accrued liability with respect to such loss contingency and record a corresponding amount of litigation-related expense. The Corporation will continue to monitor the matter for further developments that could affect the amount of the accrued liability that has been previously established. 
  For a limited number of the matters disclosed in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, we are able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to provide an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its material litigation and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. These may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient information to develop an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . For other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, such an estimate is not possible. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range. Therefore, the estimated range of possible loss represents what we believe to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation s maximum loss exposure. Information is provided in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies. 

Consolidation and Accounting for Variable Interest Entities 
  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, an entity that has a controlling financial interest in a VIE is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 
  Determining whether an entity has a controlling financial interest in a VIE requires significant judgment. An entity must assess the purpose and design of the VIE, including explicit and implicit contractual arrangements, and the entity s involvement in both the design of the VIE and its ongoing activities. The entity must then determine which activities have the most significant impact on the economic performance of the VIE and whether the entity has the power to direct such activities. For VIEs that hold financial assets, the party that services the assets or makes investment management decisions may have the power to direct the most significant activities of a VIE. Alternatively, a third party that has the unilateral right to replace the servicer or investment manager or to liquidate the VIE may be deemed to be the party with power. If there are no significant ongoing activities, the party that was responsible for the design of the VIE may be deemed to have power. If the entity determines that it has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE, then the entity must determine if it has either an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Such economic interests may include investments in debt or equity instruments issued by the VIE, liquidity commitments, and explicit and implicit guarantees. 
  On a quarterly basis, we reassess whether we have a controlling financial interest and are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether we have acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether we have acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which we are involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying amounts of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements. 

2011 Compared to 2010 
  The following discussion and analysis provides a comparison of our results of operations for   2011   and   2010  . This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Tables   7   and   8   contain financial data to supplement this discussion. 
    Overview 
  Net Income (Loss) 
  Net income was   $1.4 billion   in   2011   compared to a net loss of   $2.2 billion   in   2010  . Including preferred stock dividends, the net income applicable to common shareholders was   $85 million  , or   $0.01   per diluted share. Those results compared to a net loss applicable to common shareholders of   $3.6 billion  , or   $0.37   per diluted share for   2010  . 
  Net Interest Income 
  Net interest income on a FTE basis was   $45.6 billion   for   2011  , a decrease of $7.1 billion compared to   2010  . The decline was primarily due to lower consumer loan balances and yields and decreased investment security yields, including the acceleration of purchase premium amortization from an increase in modeled prepayment expectations, and increased hedge ineffectiveness. Lower trading-related net interest income also negatively impacted   2011   results. These decreases were partially offset by ongoing reductions in our debt footprint and lower interest rates paid on deposits. The net interest yield on a FTE basis was   2.48 percent   for   2011  , a decrease of 30 bps compared to   2010   as the yield continued to be under pressure due to the aforementioned items and the low rate environment. 
  Noninterest Income 
  Noninterest income was   $48.8 billion   in   2011  , a decrease of   $9.9 billion   compared to   2010  .  
             
    Card income decreased $924 million primarily due to the implementation of new interchange fee rules under the Durbin Amendment, which became effective on October 1, 2011 and the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (CARD Act) provisions that were implemented during 2010.  
                
    Service charges decreased $1.3 billion largely due to the impact of overdraft policy changes in conjunction with Regulation E, which became effective in the third quarter of 2010.  
                
    Equity investment income increased $2.1 billion. The results for 2011 included $6.5 billion of gains on the sale of CCB shares, partially offset by $1.1 billion of impairment charges on our merchant services joint venture. The prior year included $2.5 billion of net gains which included the sales of certain strategic investments, $2.3 billion of gains in our GPI portfolio and $535 million of CCB dividends.  
                
    Trading account profits decreased $3.4 billion primarily due to adverse market conditions and extreme volatility in the credit markets compared to the prior year. Net DVA gains on derivatives were $1.0 billion in 2011 compared to $262 million in 2010 as a result of a widening of our credit spreads. Proprietary trading revenue was $434 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 compared to $1.4 billion for 2010 due to   Global Markets   exiting its stand-alone proprietary trading business as of June 30, 2011.  

Mortgage banking income decreased $11.6 billion primarily due to an $8.8 billion increase in the representations and warranties provision which was largely related to the BNY Mellon Settlement. Also contributing to the decline was lower production income due to a reduction in new loan origination volumes partially offset by an increase in servicing income. 
                
    Other income increased $4.5 billion primarily due to positive fair value adjustments of $3.3 billion related to widening of our own credit spreads on structured liabilities compared to $18 million in 2010. In addition, 2011 included a $771 million gain on the sale of Balboa as well as $1.2 billion of gains on the exchange of certain trust preferred securities for common stock and debt. 
     Provision for Credit Losses 
  The provision for credit losses was   $13.4 billion   for   2011  , a decrease of   $15.0 billion   compared to   2010  . The provision for credit losses was $7.4 billion lower than net charge-offs for 2011, resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses primarily driven by lower delinquencies, improved collection rates and fewer bankruptcy filings across the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios, and improvement in overall credit quality in the commercial real estate portfolio partially offset by additions to consumer PCI loan portfolio reserves. This compared to a $5.9 billion reduction in the allowance for credit losses in 2010.  
  Net charge-offs totaled $20.8 billion, or 2.24 percent of average loans and leases for   2011   compared to $34.3 billion, or 3.60 percent for   2010  . The decrease in net charge-offs was primarily driven by improvements in general economic conditions that resulted in lower delinquencies, improved collection rates and fewer bankruptcy filings across the U.S. credit card and unsecured  
  consumer lending portfolios, as well as lower losses in the home equity portfolio primarily driven by fewer delinquent loans. 
  Noninterest Expense 
  Noninterest expense was   $80.3 billion   for   2011  , a decrease of   $2.8 billion   compared to   2010  . Goodwill impairment charges were   $3.2 billion   for   2011   compared to $12.4 billion in the prior year. Personnel expense increased $1.8 billion for 2011 attributable to personnel costs related to the continued build-out of certain businesses, technology costs as well as increases in default-related servicing. Additionally, professional fees increased $686 million related to consulting fees for regulatory initiatives as well as higher legal expenses. Other general operating expenses increased $4.9 billion largely as a result of a $3.0 billion increase in litigation expense, primarily mortgage-related, and an increase of $1.6 billion in mortgage-related assessments and waivers costs. Merger and restructuring expenses decreased $1.2 billion in 2011. 
  Income Tax Expense 
  The income tax benefit was   $1.7 billion   on the pre-tax loss of   $230 million   for   2011   compared to income tax expense of   $915 million   on the pre-tax loss of   $1.3 billion   for   2010  . These amounts are before FTE adjustments. The income tax benefit for 2011 was driven by recurring tax preference items, a $1.0 billion benefit from the release of the remaining valuation allowance applicable to the Merrill Lynch capital loss carryover deferred tax asset, and a benefit of $823 million for planned realization of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets related to the tax basis in certain  

subsidiaries. These benefits were partially offset by the $782 million tax charge related to the enactment of a two percent reduction in the U.K. corporate income tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2010 excluding goodwill impairment charges was 8.3 percent. In addition to our recurring tax preference items, this rate was driven by a $1.7 billion benefit from the release of a portion of the valuation allowance applicable to the Merrill Lynch capital loss carryover deferred tax asset, partially offset by the $392 million charge from a one percent reduction to the U.K. corporate income tax rate enacted during   2010  . 
    Business Segment Operations 
  Consumer   Business Banking 
  CBB   recorded net income of   $7.4 billion   in   2011   compared to a net loss of   $5.1 billion   in   2010   primarily due to a $10.4 billion goodwill impairment charge in 2010 and a decrease in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by a decline in revenue. The decline in revenue was primarily driven by lower average loan balances and yields, lower service charges reflecting the impact of overdraft policy changes in conjunction with Regulation E that were fully implemented during the third quarter of 2010, the implementation of the Durbin Amendment in the fourth quarter of 2011, the gain on the sale of our MasterCard position in 2010 and the implementation of the CARD Act. The provision for credit losses decreased   $8.2 billion   to   $3.5 billion   reflecting improving economic conditions and lower loan balances. Noninterest expense decreased   $10.9 billion   to   $17.7 billion   primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge in 2010 and lower litigation and operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in FDIC expense. 
  Consumer Real Estate Services 
  CRES   recorded a net loss of   $19.5 billion   in   2011   compared to   $8.9 billion   in   2010   primarily due to an increase in representations and warranties provision, lower core production income, a decrease in insurance income due to the sale of Balboa in   2011  , and an increase in noninterest expense. Mortgage banking income declined driven by the increased representations and warranties provision and lower core production income due to a drop in market share combined with the decline in the overall market demand for mortgages in 2011. The provision for credit losses decreased   $4.0 billion   to   $4.5 billion   primarily driven by improving portfolio trends, including lower reserve additions in the Countrywide PCI home equity portfolio. Noninterest expense increased   $7.0 billion   to   $21.8 billion   due to higher litigation expense, increased mortgage-related assessments and waivers costs, higher default-related and other loss mitigation expenses and a higher goodwill impairment charge, partially offset by lower insurance and production expenses. 
  Global Banking 
  Global Banking   recorded net income of   $6.0 billion   in   2011   compared to   $4.9 billion   in   2010   primarily driven by lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower revenue. Revenue decreased   $432 million   to   $17.3 billion   primarily driven by lower net interest income related to ALM activities and lower accretion on acquired portfolios, partially offset by the impact of higher  

average loan and deposit balances. The provision for credit losses improved   $2.4 billion   to a benefit of   $1.1 billion   driven by the positive impact of the economic environment on the credit portfolio and an accelerated rate of loan resolutions in the commercial real estate portfolio. Noninterest expense increased   $215 million   to   $8.9 billion   as higher FDIC expense was partially offset by lower personnel and occupancy expenses. 
  Global Markets 
  Global Markets   recorded net income of   $1.0 billion   in   2011   compared to   $4.3 billion   in   2010   driven by a decline in sales and trading revenue due to a challenging market environment, partially offset by net DVA gains. Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA, was $11.8 billion in   2011   compared to $16.4 billion in   2010  . Noninterest expense increased   $470 million   to   $12.2 billion   primarily driven by increased costs related to investments in infrastructure. Income tax expense included a $774 million charge to reduce the carrying value of the deferred tax assets as a result of a reduction in the U.K. corporate income tax rate enacted during 2011 compared to a charge of $388 million for a rate reduction enacted in 2010. 
  Global Wealth   Investment Management 
  GWIM   recorded net income of   $1.7 billion   in   2011   compared to   $1.3 billion   in   2010   driven by higher asset management fees, higher net interest income and lower credit costs, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. Net interest income increased   $338 million   to   $5.9 billion   as the impact of higher average deposit balances more than offset the impact of a lower rate environment. Noninterest income increased   $774 million   to   $10.6 billion   primarily due to higher asset management fees driven by higher average markets levels in 2011 compared to 2010 and continued long-term AUM flows. The provision for credit losses decreased   $248 million   to   $398 million   driven by improving portfolio trends. Noninterest expense increased   $1.1 billion   to   $13.4 billion   due primarily to higher volume-driven expenses and personnel costs associated with the continued investment in the business. 
  All Other 
  All Other   recorded net income of   $4.7 billion   in   2011   compared to   $1.3 billion   in   2010   primarily due to higher noninterest income and lower merger and restructuring charges. Noninterest income increased   $7.3 billion   to   $14.1 billion   due to positive fair value adjustments related to our own credit spreads on structured liabilities of $3.3 billion in 2011 compared to $18 million in 2010. Equity investment income increased $2.5 billion as a result of a $6.5 billion gain from the sale of CCB shares partially offset by $1.1 billion of impairment charges on our merchant services joint venture and a decrease of $1.9 billion in GPI income. A goodwill impairment charge of $581 million was recorded during 2011 as a result of a change in the estimated value of the European consumer card business. The prior year included $1.2 billion of gains on the sales of certain strategic investments. The provision for credit losses decreased   $152 million   to   $6.2 billion   primarily due to divestitures, improvements in the non-U.S. credit card portfolio and run-off, partially offset by the impact of a continuing decline in home prices. 

Statistical Tables 

(1)   
    For this presentation, fees earned on overnight deposits placed with the Federal Reserve are included in the cash and cash equivalents line, consistent with the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet presentation of these deposits. In addition, for   2012  , fees earned on deposits, primarily overnight, placed with certain non-U.S. central banks, which are included in the time deposits placed and other short-term investments line in prior periods, have been included in the cash and cash equivalents line. Net interest income and net interest yield are calculated excluding these fees. 
               (2)   
    Yields on AFS debt securities are calculated based on fair value rather than the cost basis. The use of fair value does not have a material impact on net interest yield. 
               (3)   
    Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is recognized on a cost recovery basis. PCI loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the remaining life of the loan. 
                   (8)   
    Interest income includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest income on the underlying assets by   $754 million  ,   $2.6 billion   and   $1.4 billion   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. Interest expense includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest expense on the underlying liabilities by   $2.3 billion  ,   $2.6 billion   and   $3.5 billion   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. For further information on interest rate contracts, see Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities on page   117  . 

(1)   
    The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances. 
               (2)   
    For this presentation, fees earned on overnight deposits placed with the Federal Reserve are included in the cash and cash equivalents line, consistent with the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet presentation of these deposits. In addition, for   2012  , fees earned on deposits, primarily overnight, placed with certain non-U.S. central banks, which are included in the time deposits placed and other short-term investments line in prior periods, have been included in the cash and cash equivalents line. Net interest income in the table is calculated excluding these fees. 

(1)   
    Dividends are cumulative. 
               (2)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/1,000   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 
               (3)   
    Initially pays dividends semi-annually. 
               (4)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/25   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 

(5)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/1,200   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 
               (6)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/40   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 

(1)   
    Balances do not include PCI loans even though the customer may be contractually past due. PCI loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the remaining life of the loan. In addition, balances do not include foreclosed properties that are insured by the FHA of   $2.5 billion   and   $1.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 
               (2)   
    In   2012  ,   $2.7 billion   in interest income was estimated to be contractually due on consumer loans and leases classified as nonperforming at   December 31, 2012   provided that these loans and leases had been paying according to their terms and conditions, including TDRs of which   $20.0 billion   were performing at   December 31, 2012   and not included in the table above. Approximately   $1.2 billion   of the estimated   $2.7 billion   in contractual interest was received and included in earnings for   2012  . 
               (3)   
    In   2012  ,   $266 million   in interest income was estimated to be contractually due on commercial loans and leases classified as nonperforming at   December 31, 2012   provided that these loans and leases had been paying according to their terms and conditions, including TDRs of which   $1.7 billion   were performing at   December 31, 2012   and not included in the table above. Approximately   $106 million   of the estimated   $266 million   in contractual interest was received and included in earnings for   2012  . 

(1)   
    Our policy is to classify consumer real estate-secured loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due, except the Countrywide PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option as referenced in footnote 3. 
               (2)   
    Balances are fully-insured loans. 
               (3)   
    Balances exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. At   December 31, 2012  ,   2011  ,   2010   and   2008  , there were no loans accounted for under the fair value option that were past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. At   December 31, 2009  , approximately $87 million of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. 

(1)   
    The   2010   balance includes   $10.8 billion   of allowance for loan and lease losses related to the adoption of consolidation guidance that was effective January 1, 2010. 
                 (4)   
    The 2012 and 2011 amounts primarily represent the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, and foreign currency translation adjustments. In addition, the 2011 amount includes a   $449 million   reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses related to Canadian consumer card loans that were transferred to LHFS. The 2009 amount includes a   $750 million   reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses related to credit card loans of   $8.5 billion   which were exchanged for   $7.8 billion   in held-to-maturity debt securities that were issued by the Corporation s U.S. Credit Card Securitization Trust and retained by the Corporation. The 2008 amount includes the $1.2 billion addition to the Countrywide allowance for loan losses as of July 1, 2008. 
               (5)   
    The 2012, 2011 and 2010 amounts primarily represent accretion of the Merrill Lynch purchase accounting adjustment and the impact of funding previously unfunded positions. The 2009 amount includes the remaining balance of the acquired Merrill Lynch reserve excluding those commitments accounted for under the fair value option, net of accretion, and the impact of funding previously unfunded positions. 

(9)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
                (11)   
    For more information on our definition of nonperforming loans, see pages   93   and   101  . 
               (12)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to the U.S. credit card and unsecured lending portfolios in   CBB  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (13)   
    For more information on the PCI loan portfolio and the valuation allowance for PCI loans, see   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases   and   Note 6   Allowance for Credit Losses     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  

(1)   
    Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms. 
               (2)   
    Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (3)   
    Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans. 

(1)   
    Excludes goodwill impairment charges and merger and restructuring charges. 
               (2)   
    Due to a net loss applicable to common shareholders for the third quarter of 2012 and the second quarter of 2011, the impact of antidilutive equity instruments was excluded from diluted earnings (loss) per share and average diluted common shares. 
               (3)   
    Calculated as total net income (loss) for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters. 
               (4)   
    Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For additional information on these ratios and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35   and Statistical Table XVII. 
               (5)   
    For more information on the impact of the PCI loan portfolio on asset quality, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   80  .  
               (6)   
    Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
               (7)   
    Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see   Nonperforming Consumer Loans and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   93   and corresponding   Table 37  , and   Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   101   and corresponding   Table 46  . 
               (8)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   CBB  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (9)   
    Net charge-offs exclude $1.1 billion and $1.7 billion of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio for the fourth and third quarters of   2012  . These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. For information on PCI write-offs, see   Countrywide Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   90  . 
      n/m = not meaningful 

For footnotes see page   140  . 

(1)   
    For this presentation, fees earned on overnight deposits placed with the Federal Reserve are included in the cash and cash equivalents line, consistent with the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet presentation of these deposits. In addition, beginning in the third quarter of   2012  , fees earned on deposits, primarily overnight, placed with certain non-U.S. central banks, which are included in the time deposits placed and other short-term investments line in prior periods, have been included in the cash and cash equivalents line. Net interest income and net interest yield are calculated excluding these fees. 
               (2)   
    Yields on AFS debt securities are calculated based on fair value rather than the cost basis. The use of fair value does not have a material impact on net interest yield. 
               (3)   
    Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is recognized on a cost recovery basis. PCI loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the remaining life of the loan. 
                   (8)   
    Interest income includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest income on the underlying assets by   $146 million  ,   $136 million  ,   $366 million   and   $106 million   in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2012  , and   $427 million   in the fourth quarter of   2011  , respectively. Interest expense includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest expense on the underlying liabilities by   $598 million  ,   $454 million  ,   $591 million   and   $658 million   in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2012  , and   $763 million   in the fourth quarter of   2011  , respectively. For further information on interest rate contracts, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities   on page   117  . 

For footnotes see page   142  . 

(1)   
    Supplemental financial data on a FTE basis and performance measures and ratios excluding the impact of goodwill impairment charges are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For additional information on these performance measures and ratios, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35   and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XVII. 
               (2)   
    Calculation includes fees earned on overnight deposits placed with the Federal Reserve and, beginning in the third quarter of 2012, fees earned on deposits, primarily overnight, placed with certain non-U.S. central banks of   $42 million  ,   $48 million  ,   $52 million   and   $47 million   for the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2012  , and   $36 million  , $38 million, $49 million and $63 million for the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2011  , respectively. 
               (3)   
    Performance ratios are calculated excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment charges of   $581 million   and   $2.6 billion   recorded during the fourth and second quarters of 2011. 
               (4)   
    Calculated as total net income for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters. 
     n/m = not meaningful 

(1)   
    Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 

(1)   
    Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation and our segments. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 
               (2)   
    Represents cost of funds, earnings credits and certain expenses related to intangibles.  

For footnotes see page   146  . 

(1)   
    Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   35  . 

For footnote see page   148  . 

Glossary 
    Alt-A Mortgage     A type of U.S. mortgage that, for various reasons, is considered riskier than A-paper, or  prime,  and less risky than  subprime,  the riskiest category. Alt-A interest rates, which are determined by credit risk, therefore tend to be between those of prime and subprime home loans. Typically, Alt-A mortgages are characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit scores and higher LTVs. 
  Assets in Custody     Consist largely of custodial and non-discretionary trust assets excluding brokerage assets administered for clients. Trust assets encompass a broad range of asset types including real estate, private company ownership interest, personal property and investments. 
  Assets Under Management (AUM)       The total market value of assets under the investment advisory and discretion of   GWIM   which generate asset management fees based on a percentage of the assets  market values. AUM reflects assets that are generally managed for institutional, high net-worth and retail clients, and are distributed through various investment products including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate accounts. 
  Carrying Value (with respect to loans)       The amount at which a loan is recorded on the balance sheet. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For PCI loans, the carrying value equals fair value upon acquisition adjusted for subsequent cash collections and yield accreted to date. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. For loans classified as held-for-sale, carrying value is the lower of carrying value as described in the sentences above, or fair value. For loans for which we have elected the fair value option, the carrying value is fair value. 
  Client Brokerage Assets       Include client assets which are held in brokerage accounts. This includes non-discretionary brokerage and fee-based assets which generate brokerage income and asset management fee revenue. 
  Committed Credit Exposure       Includes any funded portion of a facility plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is legally bound to advance funds during a specified period under prescribed conditions. 
  Credit Derivatives     Contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event on one or more referenced obligations. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection purchaser and protection seller at the inception of the transaction, and such events generally include bankruptcy or insolvency of the referenced credit entity, failure to meet payment obligations when due, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. The purchaser of the credit  

derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of such a credit event. A credit default swap is a type of a credit derivative. 
  Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)     A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments.  
  Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)       A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the Corporation s own credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments. 
  Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)       Commitment with a loan applicant in which the loan terms, including interest rate and price, are guaranteed for a designated period of time subject to credit approval. 
  Letter of Credit       A document issued on behalf of a customer to a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation of specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the issuer s credit for that of the customer.  
  Loan-to-value (LTV)       A commonly used credit quality metric that is reported in terms of ending and average LTV. Ending LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan at the end of the period divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan. Estimated property values are primarily determined by utilizing the Case-Schiller Home Index, a widely used index based on data from repeat sales of single family homes. Case-Schiller indices are updated quarterly and are reported on a three-month or one-quarter lag. An additional metric related to LTV is   combined loan-to-value (CLTV)   which is similar to the LTV metric, yet combines the outstanding balance on the residential mortgage loan and the outstanding carrying value on the home equity loan or available line of credit, both of which are secured by the same property, divided by the estimated value of the property. A LTV of 100 percent reflects a loan that is currently secured by a property valued at an amount exactly equal to the carrying value or available line of the loan. Under certain circumstances, estimated values can also be determined by utilizing an automated valuation method (AVM) or Mortgage Risk Assessment Corporation (MRAC) index. An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to large volumes of market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the MSA in which the property being valued is located. The MRAC index is similar to the Case-Schiller Home Index in that it is an index that is based on data from repeat sales of single family homes and is reported on a lag. 
  Margin Receivables         An extension of credit secured by eligible securities in certain brokerage accounts. 
  Mortgage Servicing Right (MSR)     The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors. 

Net Interest Yield       Net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets. 
  Nonperforming Loans and Leases       Includes loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties (TDRs). Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. Consumer credit card loans, business card loans, consumer loans secured by personal property (except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring), and consumer loans secured by real estate that are insured by the FHA or through long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC (fully-insured loan portfolio), are not placed on nonaccrual status and are, therefore, not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. 
  Purchased Credit-impaired (PCI) Loan       A loan purchased as an individual loan, in a portfolio of loans or in a business combination with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable, upon acquisition, that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments. These loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition. 
  Subprime Loans       Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors, such as low FICO scores, high debt to income ratios and inferior payment history.  
  Tier 1 Common Capital     Tier 1 capital less preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities, hybrid securities and qualifying noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries. 

Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)       Loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance, loans discharged in bankruptcy or other actions intended to maximize collection. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge from bankruptcy. TDRs are generally reported as nonperforming loans and leases while on nonaccrual status. Nonperforming TDRs may be returned to accrual status when, among other criteria, payment in full of all amounts due under the restructured terms is expected and the borrower has demonstrated a sustained period of repayment performance, typically six months. TDRs that are on accrual status are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the restructuring occurred or the year in which they are returned to accrual status. In addition, if accruing TDRs bear less than a market rate of interest at the time of modification, they are reported as performing TDRs throughout their remaining lives unless and until they cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, at which time they would be placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs. 
  Value-at-Risk (VaR)       VaR is a model that simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses on our trading portfolios.  

Acronyms 
                 ABS 
    Asset-backed securities 
      AFS 
    Available-for-sale 
      ALM 
    Asset and liability management 
      ALMRC 
    Asset Liability Market Risk Committee 
      ARM 
    Adjustable-rate mortgage 
      BHC 
    Bank holding company 
      CDO 
    Collateralized debt obligation 
      CLO 
    Collateralized loan obligation 
      CES 
    Common Equivalent Securities 
      CMBS 
    Commercial mortgage-backed securities 
      CORC 
    Compliance and Operational Risk Committee 
      CRA 
    Community Reinvestment Act 
      CRC 
    Credit Risk Committee 
      EAD 
    Exposure at default 
      EU 
    European Union 
      FDIC 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
      FFIEC 
    Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council 
      FHA 
    Federal Housing Administration 
      FHFA 
    Federal Housing Finance Agency 
      FHLMC 
    Freddie Mac 
      FICC 
    Fixed income, currencies and commodities 
      FICO 
    Fair Isaac Corporation (credit score) 
      FNMA 
    Fannie Mae 
      FTE 
    Fully taxable-equivalent 
      GAAP 
    Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America 
      GNMA 
    Government National Mortgage Association 
      GMRC 
    Global Markets Risk Committee 
      GSE 
    Government-sponsored enterprise 
      HELOC 
    Home equity lines of credit 
      HFI 
    Held-for-investment 
      HUD 
    U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 
      IPO 
    Initial public offering 
      LCR 
    Liquidity coverage ratio 
      LGD 
    Loss given default 
      LHFS 
    Loans held-for-sale 
      LIBOR 
    London InterBank Offered Rate 
      MBS 
    Mortgage-backed securities 
      MD A 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
      MI 
    Mortgage insurance 
      MSA 
    Metropolitan statistical area 
      NSFR 
    Net stable funding ratio 
      OCC 
    Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
      OCI 
    Other comprehensive income 
      OTC 
    Over-the-counter 
      OTTI 
    Other-than-temporary impairment 
      PPI 
    Payment protection insurance 
      RMBS 
    Residential mortgage-backed securities 
      ROTE 
    Return on average tangible shareholders  equity 
      SBLCs 
    Standby letters of credit 
      SEC 
    Securities and Exchange Commission 
      TLGP 
    Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 
      VA 
    U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  See   Market Risk Management   on page   113   in the MD A and the sections referenced therein for Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  
    
    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
  The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 
  The Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Corporation s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Corporation s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012   based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework  . Based on that assessment, management concluded that, as of   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework  . 
  The Corporation s internal control over financial reporting               as of   December 31, 2012   has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  . 

Brian T. Moynihan 
  Chief Executive Officer and President 

Bruce R. Thompson 
  Chief Financial Officer 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Bank of America Corporation: 
  In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2012   in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2012  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an  

understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  
  Charlotte, North Carolina 
  February 28, 2013    

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

During 2011, the Corporation entered into an agreement with Assured Guaranty Ltd. and subsidiaries which resulted in non-cash increases to loans of   $2.2 billion  , other assets of   $82 million   and long-term debt of   $2.3 billion  . 
  During 2011, the Corporation exchanged preferred stock, with a carrying value of   $1.1 billion  , for   92 million   common shares valued at   $522 million   and senior notes valued at   $360 million  . 
  During 2011, the Corporation exchanged trust preferred securities for   308 million   common shares valued at   $1.7 billion   and senior notes valued at   $2.0 billion  . The trust preferred securities, and underlying junior subordinated notes and stock purchase agreements, with a carrying value of   $5.2 billion  , were immediately canceled.  
  During 2010, the Corporation securitized   $2.4 billion   of residential mortgage loans into mortgage-backed securities which were retained by the Corporation. There were no residential mortgage loans securitized into mortgage-backed securities which were retained by the Corporation during 2012 and 2011. 
  During 2010, the Corporation sold First Republic Bank in a non-cash transaction that reduced assets and liabilities by   $19.5 billion   and   $18.1 billion  . 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    
      NOTE 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles 
  Bank of America Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Corporation), a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company, provides a diverse range of financial services and products throughout the U.S. and in certain international markets. The term  the Corporation  as used herein may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. 
  The Corporation conducts its activities through banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. The Corporation operates its banking activities primarily under two charters: Bank of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) and FIA Card Services, National Association (FIA Card Services, N.A. or FIA). 
  Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries, and those variable interest entities (VIEs) where the Corporation is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Results of operations of acquired companies are included from the dates of acquisition and for VIEs, from the dates that the Corporation became the primary beneficiary. Assets held in an agency or fiduciary capacity are not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation accounts for investments in companies for which it owns a voting interest and for which it has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financing decisions using the equity method of accounting or at fair value under the fair value option. These investments are included in other assets. Equity method investments are subject to impairment testing and the Corporation s proportionate share of income or loss is included in equity investment income. 
  The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Realized results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. 
  The Corporation evaluates subsequent events through the date of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new accounting guidance that addresses effective control in repurchase agreements and eliminates the requirement for entities to consider whether the transferor/seller has the ability to repurchase the financial assets in a repurchase agreement. This new accounting guidance was effective, on a prospective basis, for new transactions or modifications to existing transactions on January 1, 2012. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Corporation s consolidated financial position or results of operations. 

Effective January 1, 2012, the Corporation adopted amendments from the FASB to the fair value accounting guidance. The amendments clarify the application of the highest and best use, and valuation premise concepts, preclude the application of  blockage factors  in the valuation of all financial instruments and include criteria for applying the fair value measurement principles to portfolios of financial instruments. The amendments also prescribe additional disclosures for Level 3 fair value measurements and financial instruments not carried at fair value. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Corporation s consolidated financial position or results of operations. For the related disclosures, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 23   Fair Value of Financial Instruments  . 
  Effective January 1, 2012, the Corporation adopted new accounting guidance from the FASB on the presentation of comprehensive income in financial statements. The Corporation adopted the new guidance by reporting the components of comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements. For the new statement and related information, see the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and   Note 15   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  . 
  Effective January 1, 2013, the Corporation will be required to retrospectively adopt new accounting guidance from the FASB requiring additional disclosures on the effect of netting arrangements on an entity s financial position. The disclosures relate to derivatives and securities financing agreements that are either offset on the balance sheet under existing accounting guidance or are subject to a legally enforceable master netting or similar agreement. This new guidance addresses only disclosures, and accordingly, will have no impact on the Corporation s consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed standard on accounting for expected credit losses. It would replace multiple existing impairment models, including an  incurred loss  model for loans, with an  expected credit loss  model. The FASB announced it would establish the effective date when it issues the final standard. The Corporation cannot predict at this time whether or when a final standard will be issued, when it will be effective or what its final provisions will be. It is possible that the final standard could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation s results of operations once it is issued and becomes effective. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in the process of collection, and amounts due from correspondent banks and the Federal Reserve Bank. 
  Securities Financing Agreements 
  Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (securities financing agreements) are treated as collateralized financing transactions. These agreements are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest, except for certain securities financing agreements that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of securities financing agreements that are accounted for under the fair value option are recorded in trading  

account profits in the Consolidated Statement of Income. For more information on securities financing agreements that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option, see   Note 22   Fair Value Option  . 
  The Corporation s policy is to obtain possession of collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned under resale agreements. To ensure that the market value of the underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is generally valued daily and the Corporation may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or may return collateral pledged when appropriate. Securities financing agreements give rise to negligible credit risk as a result of these collateral provisions, and accordingly, no allowance for loan losses is considered necessary. 
  Substantially all repurchase and resale activities are transacted under legally enforceable master repurchase agreements that give the Corporation, in the event of default by the counterparty, the right to liquidate securities held and to offset receivables and payables with the same counterparty. The Corporation offsets repurchase and resale transactions with the same counterparty on the Consolidated Balance Sheet where it has such a legally enforceable master agreement and the transactions have the same maturity date. 
  In transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged or sold as collateral, it recognizes an asset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, representing the securities received, and a liability for the same amount, representing the obligation to return those securities. 
  In repurchase transactions, typically, the termination date for a repurchase agreement is before the maturity date of the underlying security. However, in certain situations, the Corporation may enter into repurchase agreements where the termination date of the repurchase transaction is the same as the maturity date of the underlying security and these transactions are referred to as  repo-to-maturity  (RTM) transactions. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation accounts for RTM transactions as sales and purchases when the transferred securities are highly liquid. In instances where securities are considered sold or purchased, the Corporation removes or recognizes the securities from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and, in the case of sales, recognizes a gain or loss, where applicable, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation had no outstanding RTM transactions that had been accounted for as sales and an immaterial amount of transactions that had been accounted for as purchases. 
  Collateral 
  The Corporation accepts securities as collateral that it is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the fair value of this collateral was   $513.2 billion   and   $393.9 billion   of which   $362.0 billion   and   $287.7 billion   was sold or repledged. The primary source of this collateral is securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell. The Corporation also pledges firm-owned securities and loans as collateral in transactions that include repurchase agreements, securities loaned, public and trust deposits, U.S. Treasury tax and loan notes, and other short-term borrowings. This collateral, which in some cases can be sold or repledged by the counterparties to  

the transactions, is parenthetically disclosed on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  In certain cases, the Corporation has transferred assets to consolidated VIEs where those restricted assets serve as collateral for the interests issued by the VIEs. These assets are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Assets of Consolidated VIEs. 
  In addition, the Corporation obtains collateral in connection with its derivative contracts. Required collateral levels vary depending on the credit risk rating and the type of counterparty. Generally, the Corporation accepts collateral in the form of cash, U.S. Treasury securities and other marketable securities. Based on provisions contained in master netting agreements, the Corporation nets cash collateral received against derivative assets. The Corporation also pledges collateral on its own derivative positions which can be applied against derivative liabilities. 
  Trading Instruments 
  Financial instruments utilized in trading activities are carried at fair value. Fair value is generally based on quoted market prices or quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities. If these market prices are not available, fair values are estimated based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques where the determination of fair value may require significant management judgment or estimation. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in trading account profits. 
  Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
  Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, and for trading or risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk management activities include derivatives that are both designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships and derivatives used to hedge market risks in relationships that are not designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships (referred to as other risk management activities). Derivatives utilized by the Corporation include swaps, financial futures and forward settlement contracts, and option contracts. A swap agreement is a contract between two parties to exchange cash flows based on specified underlying notional amounts, assets and/or indices. Financial futures and forward settlement contracts are agreements to buy or sell a quantity of a financial instrument (including another derivative financial instrument), index, currency or commodity at a predetermined rate or price during a period or at a date in the future. Option agreements can be transacted on organized exchanges or directly between parties. 
  All derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, taking into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Corporation to settle positive and negative positions and offset cash collateral held with the same counterparty on a net basis. For exchange-traded contracts, fair value is based on quoted market prices. For non-exchange traded contracts, fair value is based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value may require significant management judgment or estimation. 
  Valuations of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values also take into account the Corporation s own credit standing. 

Trading Derivatives and Other Risk Management Activities 
  Derivatives held for trading purposes are included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with changes in fair value included in trading account profits. 
  Derivatives used for other risk management activities are included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities. Derivatives used in other risk management activities have not been designated in a qualifying accounting hedge relationship because they did not qualify or the risk that is being mitigated pertains to an item that is reported at fair value through earnings so that the effect of measuring the derivative instrument and the asset or liability to which the risk exposure pertains will offset in the Consolidated Statement of Income to the extent effective. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate certain risks associated with mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and first mortgage loans held-for-sale (LHFS) that are originated by the Corporation are recorded in mortgage banking income (loss). Changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign currency risk are included in other income (loss). Credit derivatives are also used by the Corporation to protect the Corporation from various credit exposures. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are included in other income (loss). 
  Derivatives Used For Hedge Accounting Purposes (Accounting Hedges) 
  For accounting hedges, the Corporation formally documents at inception all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various accounting hedges. Additionally, the Corporation primarily uses regression analysis at the inception of a hedge and for each reporting period thereafter to assess whether the derivative used in a hedging transaction is expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item or forecasted transaction. The Corporation discontinues hedge accounting when it is determined that a derivative is not expected to be or has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge, and then reflects changes in fair value of the derivative in earnings after termination of the hedge relationship. 
  The Corporation uses its accounting hedges as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. The Corporation manages interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity predominantly through the use of derivatives. Fair value hedges are used to protect against changes in the fair value of the Corporation s assets and liabilities that are attributable to interest rate or foreign exchange volatility. Cash flow hedges are used primarily to minimize the variability in cash flows of assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions caused by interest rate or foreign exchange fluctuations. For terminated cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is approximately   25   years, with a substantial portion of the hedged transactions being less than   10   years. For open or future cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are or will be hedged is less than   seven   years. 
  Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, together and in the same income statement line item with changes in the fair value of the related hedged item. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated  

as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and are reclassified into the line item in the income statement in which the hedged item is recorded and in the same period the hedged item affects earnings. Hedge ineffectiveness and gains and losses on the excluded component of a derivative in assessing hedge effectiveness are recorded in earnings in the same income statement line item. The Corporation records changes in the fair value of derivatives used as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations, to the extent effective, as a component of accumulated OCI. 
  If a derivative instrument in a fair value hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, the previous adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability are subsequently accounted for in the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of that asset or liability. For interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, such adjustments are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the respective asset or liability. If a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is terminated or the hedge designation is removed, related amounts in accumulated OCI are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. If it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, any related amounts in accumulated OCI are reclassified into earnings in that period. 
  Interest Rate Lock Commitments 
  The Corporation enters into IRLCs in connection with its mortgage banking activities to fund residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. IRLCs that relate to the origination of mortgage loans that will be held-for-sale are considered derivative instruments under applicable accounting guidance. As such, these IRLCs are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income (loss), typically resulting in recognition of a gain when the Corporation enters into IRLCs. 
  In estimating the fair value of an IRLC, the Corporation assigns a probability that the loan commitment will be exercised and the loan will be funded. The fair value of the commitments is derived from the fair value of related mortgage loans which is based on observable market data and includes the expected net future cash flows related to servicing of the loans. Changes to the fair value of IRLCs are recognized based on interest rate changes, changes in the probability that the commitment will be exercised and the passage of time. Changes from the expected future cash flows related to the customer relationship are excluded from the valuation of IRLCs. 
  Outstanding IRLCs expose the Corporation to the risk that the price of the loans underlying the commitments might decline from inception of the rate lock to funding of the loan. To manage this risk, the Corporation utilizes forward loan sales commitments and other derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps and options, to economically hedge the risk of potential changes in the value of the loans that would result from the commitments. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in mortgage banking income (loss). 
  Securities 
  Debt securities are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of their trade date. Debt securities bought principally with the intent to buy and sell in the short term as part of the Corporation s trading activities are reported at fair value in trading account assets with unrealized gains and losses included in trading  

account profits (losses). Debt securities purchased for longer term investment purposes, as part of asset and liability management (ALM) and other strategic activities are generally reported at fair value as available-for-sale (AFS) securities with net unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated OCI. Certain debt securities purchased for ALM and other strategic purposes are reported in other assets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other income (loss). Debt securities which management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity (HTM) are reported at amortized cost. Other debt securities purchased for use in other risk management activities, such as hedging certain market risks related to MSRs, are reported in other assets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in the same line item as the item being hedged. 
  The Corporation regularly evaluates each AFS and HTM debt security where the value has declined below amortized cost to assess whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, the Corporation considers the severity and duration of the decline in fair value, the length of time expected for recovery, the financial condition of the issuer, and other qualitative factors, as well as whether the Corporation either plans to sell the security or it is more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost. If the impairment of the AFS or HTM debt security is credit-related, an other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) is recorded in earnings. For AFS debt securities, the non-credit-related impairment is recognized in accumulated OCI. If the Corporation intends to sell an AFS debt security or believes it will more-likely-than-not be required to sell a security, the Corporation records the full amount of the impairment as an OTTI. 
  Interest on debt securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is included in interest income. Realized gains and losses from the sales of debt securities are determined using the specific identification method. 
  Marketable equity securities are classified based on management s intention on the date of purchase and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the trade date. Marketable equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of resale in the near term are classified as trading and are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in trading account profits. Other marketable equity securities are accounted for as AFS and classified in other assets. All AFS marketable equity securities are carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated OCI on an after-tax basis. If there is an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of any individual AFS marketable equity security, the cost basis is reduced and the Corporation reclassifies the associated net unrealized loss out of accumulated OCI with a corresponding charge to equity investment income. Dividend income on AFS marketable equity securities is included in equity investment income. Realized gains and losses on the sale of all AFS marketable equity securities, which are recorded in equity investment income, are determined using the specific identification method. 
  Certain equity investments held by Global Principal Investments (GPI), the Corporation s diversified equity investor in private equity, real estate and other alternative investments, are subject to investment company accounting under applicable accounting guidance, and accordingly, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in equity investment income. These investments are included in other assets. Initially, the transaction price of the investment is generally considered to be the best  

indicator of fair value. Thereafter, valuation of direct investments is based on an assessment of each individual investment using methodologies that include publicly-traded comparables derived by multiplying a key performance metric (e.g., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) of the portfolio company by the relevant valuation multiple observed for comparable companies, acquisition comparables, entry level multiples and discounted cash flow analyses, and are subject to appropriate discounts for lack of liquidity or marketability. Certain factors that may influence changes in fair value include but are not limited to recapitalizations, subsequent rounds of financing and offerings in the equity or debt capital markets. For fund investments, the Corporation generally records the fair value of its proportionate interest in the fund s capital as reported by the respective fund managers. Other investments held by GPI are accounted for under either the equity method or at cost, depending on the Corporation s ownership interest, and are reported in other assets. 
  Loans and Leases 
  Loans measured at historical cost are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans, and for purchased loans, net of any unamortized premiums or discounts. Loan origination fees and certain direct origination costs are deferred and recognized as adjustments to interest income over the lives of the related loans. Unearned income, discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income using a level yield methodology. The Corporation elects to account for certain consumer and commercial loans under the fair value option with changes in fair value reported in other income (loss). 
  Under applicable accounting guidance, for reporting purposes, the loan and lease portfolio is categorized by portfolio segment and, within each portfolio segment, by class of financing receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level at which an entity develops and documents a systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses, and a class of financing receivables is defined as the level of disaggregation of portfolio segments based on the initial measurement attribute, risk characteristics and methods for assessing risk. The Corporation s three portfolio segments are Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. The classes within the Home Loans portfolio segment are core portfolio residential mortgage, Legacy Assets   Servicing residential mortgage, Countrywide Financial Corporation (Countrywide) residential mortgage purchased credit-impaired (PCI), core portfolio home equity, Legacy Assets   Servicing home equity, Countrywide home equity PCI, Legacy Assets   Servicing discontinued real estate and Countrywide discontinued real estate PCI  .   The classes within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment are U.S. credit card, non-U.S. credit card, direct/indirect consumer and other consumer. The classes within the Commercial portfolio segment are U.S. commercial, commercial real estate, commercial lease financing, non-U.S. commercial and U.S. small business commercial. 
  Purchased Credit-impaired Loans 
  The Corporation purchases loans with and without evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination. Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such as past due status, refreshed borrower credit scores and refreshed loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, some of which are not  

immediately available as of the purchase date. Purchased loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration for which it is probable that the Corporation will not receive all contractually required payments receivable are accounted for as PCI loans. The excess of the cash flows expected to be collected on PCI loans, measured as of the acquisition date, over the estimated fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income over the remaining life of the loan using a level yield methodology. The difference between contractually required payments as of the acquisition date and the cash flows expected to be collected is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. PCI loans that have similar risk characteristics, primarily credit risk, collateral type and interest rate risk, are pooled and accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. Once a pool is assembled, it is treated as if it was one loan for purposes of applying the accounting guidance for PCI loans. An individual loan is removed from a PCI loan pool if it is sold, foreclosed, forgiven or the expectation of any future proceeds is remote. When a loan is removed from a PCI loan pool and the foreclosure or recovery value of the loan is less than the loan s carrying value, the difference is first applied against the PCI pool s nonaccretable difference. If the nonaccretable difference has been fully utilized, only then is the PCI pool s basis applicable to that loan written-off against its valuation reserve; however, the integrity of the pool is maintained and it continues to be accounted for as if it was one loan. 
  The Corporation continues to estimate cash flows expected to be collected over the life of the PCI loans using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate management s best estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and payment speeds. If, upon subsequent evaluation, the Corporation determines it is probable that the present value of the expected cash flows has decreased, the PCI loan is considered to be further impaired resulting in a charge to the provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to a valuation allowance included in the allowance for loan and lease losses. If, upon subsequent evaluation, it is probable that there is an increase in the present value of the expected cash flows, the Corporation reduces any remaining valuation allowance. If there is no remaining valuation allowance, the Corporation recalculates the amount of accretable yield as the excess of the revised expected cash flows over the current carrying value resulting in a reclassification from nonaccretable difference to accretable yield. The present value of the expected cash flows is determined using the PCI loans  effective interest rate, adjusted for changes in the PCI loans  interest rate indices. 
  Leases 
  The Corporation provides equipment financing to its customers through a variety of lease arrangements. Direct financing leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments receivable plus estimated residual value of the leased property less unearned income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of financing leases, are carried net of non-recourse debt. Unearned income on leveraged and direct financing leases is accreted to interest income over the lease terms using methods that approximate the interest method. 
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
  The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending  

commitments, represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation s lending activities. The allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments exclude amounts for loans and unfunded lending commitments accounted for under the fair value option as the fair values of these instruments reflect a credit component. The allowance for loan and lease losses does not include amounts related to accrued interest receivable, other than billed interest and fees on credit card receivables, as accrued interest receivable is reversed when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. The allowance for loan and lease losses represents the estimated probable credit losses on funded consumer and commercial loans and leases while the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, including standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and binding unfunded loan commitments, represents estimated probable credit losses on these unfunded credit instruments based on utilization assumptions. Lending-related credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible, excluding loans carried at fair value, are charged against these accounts. Write-offs on PCI loans on which there is a valuation allowance are written-off against the valuation allowance. For additional information, see Purchased Credit-impaired Loans. Cash recovered on previously charged off amounts is recorded as a recovery to these accounts. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses based on the combined total of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
  The Corporation performs periodic and systematic detailed reviews of its lending portfolios to identify credit risks and to assess the overall collectability of those portfolios. The allowance on certain homogeneous consumer loan portfolios, which generally consist of consumer real estate within the Home Loans portfolio segment and credit card loans within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment, is based on aggregated portfolio segment evaluations generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized for these portfolios which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, bankruptcies, economic conditions and credit scores. 
  The Corporation s Home Loans portfolio segment is comprised primarily of large groups of homogeneous consumer loans secured by residential real estate. The amount of losses incurred in the homogeneous loan pools is estimated based upon how many of the loans will default and the loss in the event of default. Using modeling methodologies, the Corporation estimates how many of the homogeneous loans will default based on the individual loans  attributes aggregated into pools of homogeneous loans with similar attributes. The attributes that are most significant to the probability of default and are used to estimate default include refreshed LTV or in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed combined loan-to-value (CLTV), borrower credit score, months since origination (referred to as vintage) and geography, all of which are further broken down by present collection status (whether the loan is current, delinquent, in default or in bankruptcy). This estimate is based on the Corporation s historical experience with the loan portfolio. The estimate is adjusted to reflect an assessment of environmental factors not yet reflected in the historical data underlying the loss estimates, such as changes in real estate values, local and national economies, underwriting standards and the regulatory environment. The probability of default on a loan is based on an analysis of the movement of loans with the measured attributes from either current or any of the delinquency categories  

to default over a twelve-month period. On home equity loans where the Corporation holds only a second-lien position and foreclosure is not the best alternative, the loss severity is estimated at   100   percent. 
  The allowance on certain commercial loans (except business card and certain small business loans) is calculated using loss rates delineated by risk rating and product type. Factors considered when assessing loss rates include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry of the obligor, and the obligor s liquidity and other financial indicators along with certain qualitative factors. These statistical models are updated regularly for changes in economic and business conditions. Included in the analysis of consumer and commercial loan portfolios are reserves which are maintained to cover uncertainties that affect the Corporation s estimate of probable losses including domestic and global economic uncertainty and large single name defaults. 
  The remaining portfolios, including nonperforming commercial loans, as well as consumer and commercial loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR) are reviewed in accordance with applicable accounting guidance on impaired loans and TDRs. If necessary, a specific allowance is established for these loans if they are deemed to be impaired. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and/or interest, in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement, and once a loan has been identified as impaired, management measures impairment. Impaired loans and TDRs are primarily measured based on the present value of payments expected to be received, discounted at the loans  original effective contractual interest rates, or discounted at the portfolio average contractual annual percentage rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Impaired loans and TDRs may also be measured based on observable market prices, or for loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, the estimated fair value of the collateral less estimated costs to sell. If the recorded investment in impaired loans exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is established as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses unless these are secured consumer loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, in which case the initial amount that exceeds the fair value of the collateral is charged off. 
  Generally, when determining the fair value of the collateral securing consumer real estate-secured loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, prior to performing a detailed property valuation including a walk-through of a property, the Corporation initially estimates the fair value of the collateral securing these consumer loans using an automated valuation method (AVM). An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the Metropolitan Statistical Area in which the property being valued is located. In the event that an AVM value is not available, the Corporation utilizes publicized indices or if these methods provide less reliable valuations, the Corporation uses appraisals or broker price opinions to estimate the fair value of the collateral. While there is inherent imprecision in these valuations, the Corporation believes that they are representative of the portfolio in the aggregate. 
  In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, the Corporation also estimates probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments, such as letters of credit and financial guarantees, and binding unfunded loan commitments. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments excludes commitments  

accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to individual reviews and are analyzed and segregated by risk according to the Corporation s internal risk rating scale. These risk classifications, in conjunction with an analysis of historical loss experience, utilization assumptions, current economic conditions, performance trends within the portfolio and any other pertinent information, result in the estimation of the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
  The allowance for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio is reported separately on the Consolidated Balance Sheet whereas the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The provision for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio and unfunded lending commitments is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  Nonperforming Loans and Leases, Charge-offs and Delinquencies 
  Nonperforming loans and leases generally include loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. 
  In accordance with the Corporation s policies, consumer real estate-secured loans, including residential mortgages and home equity loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming at 90 days past due unless repayment of the loan is insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or through individually insured long-term standby agreements with Fannie Mae (FNMA) or Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (the fully-insured portfolio). Residential mortgage loans in the fully-insured portfolio are not placed on nonaccrual status and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans. Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming when the underlying first-lien mortgage loan becomes 90 days past due even if the junior-lien loan is current. Accrued interest receivable is reversed when a consumer loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections on nonaccruing consumer loans for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are generally applied as principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to interest income when received. These loans may be restored to accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. The outstanding balance of real estate-secured loans that is in excess of the estimated property value, less estimated costs to sell, is charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due unless the loan is fully insured. The estimated property value, less estimated costs to sell, is determined using the same process as described for impaired loans in the Allowance for Credit Losses section of this Note. 
  Consumer loans secured by personal property, credit card loans and other unsecured consumer loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans, except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR. Personal property-secured loans are charged off to collateral value no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 120  

days past due or, for loans in bankruptcy, 60 days past due. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy.  
  Commercial loans and leases, excluding business card loans, that are past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest, or where reasonable doubt exists as to timely collection, including loans that are individually identified as being impaired, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming unless well-secured and in the process of collection.  
  Accrued interest receivable is reversed when commercial loans and leases are placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections on nonaccruing commercial loans and leases for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to income when received. Commercial loans and leases may be restored to accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. Business card loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days past due or 60 days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy filing. These loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans. Other commercial loans and leases are generally charged off when all or a portion of the principal amount is determined to be uncollectible. 
  The entire balance of a consumer loan or commercial loan or lease is contractually delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the specified due date on the customer s billing statement. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due loans and leases until the date the loan is placed on nonaccrual status, if applicable. 
  PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. Although the PCI loans may be contractually delinquent, the Corporation does not classify these loans as nonperforming as the loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date and the accretable yield is recognized in interest income over the remaining life of the loan. In addition, reported net charge-offs exclude write-offs on PCI loans as the fair value already considers the estimated credit losses. 
  Troubled Debt Restructurings 
  Consumer loans and commercial loans and leases whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties are classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance, or other actions designed to maximize collections. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge. Consumer real estate-secured loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans. Loans that are carried at fair value, LHFS and PCI loans are not classified as TDRs. 

Secured consumer loans whose contractual terms have been modified in a TDR and are current at the time of restructuring generally remain on accrual status if there is demonstrated performance prior to the restructuring and payment in full under the restructured terms is expected. Otherwise, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming, except for the fully-insured loans, until there is sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period, generally six months. If accruing consumer TDRs cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, they are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs. Consumer TDRs that bear a below-market rate of interest are generally reported as TDRs throughout their remaining lives. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy are placed on nonaccrual status and written down to the collateral value, less estimated costs to sell, no later than the time of discharge. Interest collections on these loans are generally recorded in interest income on a cash basis. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated in a TDR are not placed on nonaccrual status. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated and placed on a fixed payment plan after July 1, 2012 are generally charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 120 days past due. 
  Commercial loans and leases whose contractual terms have been modified in a TDR are typically placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming until the loans or leases have performed for an adequate period of time under the restructured agreement, generally six months. If the borrower had demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the modified terms, the loan may remain on accrual status. Accruing commercial TDRs are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the loans are returned to accrual status. In addition, if accruing commercial TDRs bear less than a market rate of interest at the time of modification, they are reported as performing TDRs throughout their remaining lives unless and until they cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, at which time they are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs. 
  A loan that had previously been modified in a TDR and is subsequently refinanced under current underwriting standards at a market rate with no concessionary terms is accounted for as a new loan and is no longer reported as a TDR. 
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  Loans that are intended to be sold in the foreseeable future, including residential mortgages, loan syndications, and to a lesser degree, commercial real estate, consumer finance and other loans, are reported as LHFS and are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value. The Corporation accounts for certain LHFS, including first mortgage LHFS, under the fair value option. Mortgage loan origination costs related to LHFS that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option are recognized 
  in noninterest expense when incurred. Mortgage loan origination costs for LHFS carried at the lower of cost or fair value are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the loans and recognized as a reduction of mortgage banking income upon the sale of such loans. LHFS that are on nonaccrual status and are reported as nonperforming, as defined in the policy herein, are reported separately from nonperforming loans and leases. 

Premises and Equipment 
  Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Estimated lives range up to   40   years for buildings, up to   12   years for furniture and equipment, and the shorter of lease term or estimated useful life for leasehold improvements. 
  The Corporation capitalizes the costs associated with certain computer hardware, software and internally developed software, and amortizes the costs over the expected useful life. Direct project costs of internally developed software are capitalized when it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used for its intended function. 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  The Corporation accounts for consumer-related MSRs at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income (loss), while commercial-related and residential reverse mortgage MSRs are accounted for using the amortization method (lower of amortized cost or fair value) with impairment recognized as a reduction in mortgage banking income (loss). To reduce the volatility of earnings related to interest rate and market value fluctuations, U.S. Treasury securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps may be used as risk management derivatives to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, but are not designated as qualifying accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage banking income (loss). 
  The Corporation estimates the fair value of consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income and, when available, quoted prices from independent parties. The present value calculation is accomplished through an option-adjusted spread (OAS) valuation approach that factors in prepayment risk. This approach consists of projecting servicing cash flows under multiple interest rate scenarios and discounting these cash flows using risk-adjusted discount rates. The key economic assumptions used in MSR valuations include weighted-average lives of the MSRs and the OAS levels. The OAS represents the spread that is added to the discount rate so that the sum of the discounted cash flows equals the market price; therefore, it is a measure of the extra yield over  
  the reference discount factor that the Corporation expects to earn by holding the asset.  
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill is the purchase premium after adjusting for the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit, as defined under applicable accounting guidance, is a business segment or one level below a business segment. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount including goodwill as measured by allocated equity. In certain circumstances, the first step may be performed using a qualitative assessment. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not  

impaired; however, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step must be performed to measure potential impairment. 
  The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated possible impairment. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step, over the aggregate fair values of the assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. Measurement of the fair values of the assets and liabilities of a reporting unit is consistent with the requirements of the fair value measurements accounting guidance, as described herein. The adjustments to measure the assets, liabilities and intangibles at fair value are for the purpose of measuring the implied fair value of goodwill and such adjustments are not reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit, there is no impairment. If the goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. An impairment loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill and subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment losses are not permitted under applicable accounting guidance. 
  For intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is considered not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. 
  Variable Interest Entities 
  A VIE is an entity that lacks equity investors or whose equity investors do not have a controlling financial interest in the entity through their equity investments. The entity that has a controlling financial interest in a VIE is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis, the Corporation reassesses whether it has a controlling financial interest in and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether the Corporation has acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether the Corporation has acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which the Corporation is involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying amounts of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements. 

The Corporation primarily uses VIEs for its securitization activities, in which the Corporation transfers whole loans or debt securities into a trust or other vehicle such that the assets are legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation. Assets held in a trust can only be used to settle obligations of the trust. The creditors of these trusts typically have no recourse to the Corporation except in accordance with the Corporation s obligations under standard representations and warranties. 
  When the Corporation is the servicer of whole loans held in a securitization trust, including non-agency residential mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, automobile loans and student loans, the Corporation has the power to direct the most significant activities of the trust. The Corporation does not have the power to direct the most significant activities of a residential mortgage agency trust unless the Corporation holds substantially all of the issued securities and has the unilateral right to liquidate the trust. The power to direct the most significant activities of a commercial mortgage securitization trust is typically held by the special servicer or by the party holding specific subordinate securities which embody certain controlling rights. The Corporation consolidates a whole-loan securitization trust if it has the power to direct the most significant activities and also holds securities issued by the trust or has other contractual arrangements, other than standard representations and warranties, that could potentially be significant to the trust. 
  The Corporation may also transfer trading account securities and AFS securities into municipal bond or resecuritization trusts. The Corporation consolidates a municipal bond or resecuritization trust if it has control over the ongoing activities of the trust such as the remarketing of the trust s liabilities or, if there are no ongoing activities, sole discretion over the design of the trust, including the identification of securities to be transferred in and the structure of securities to be issued, and also retains securities or has liquidity or other commitments that could potentially be significant to the trust. The Corporation does not consolidate a municipal bond or resecuritization trust if one or a limited number of third-party investors share responsibility for the design of the trust or have control over the significant activities of the trust through liquidation or other substantive rights. 
  Other VIEs used by the Corporation include collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), investment vehicles created on behalf of customers and other investment vehicles. The Corporation does not routinely serve as collateral manager for CDOs and, therefore, does not typically have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of a CDO. However, following an event of default, if the Corporation is a majority holder of senior securities issued by a CDO and acquires the power to manage the assets of the CDO, the Corporation consolidates the CDO. 
  The Corporation consolidates a customer or other investment vehicle if it has control over the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the vehicle and also absorbs potentially significant gains or losses through an investment in the vehicle, derivative contracts or other arrangements. The Corporation does not consolidate an investment vehicle if a single investor controlled the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the vehicles or if the Corporation does not have a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the vehicle. 
  Retained interests in securitized assets are initially recorded at fair value. In addition, the Corporation may invest in debt securities issued by unconsolidated VIEs. Fair values of these debt securities, which are AFS debt securities or trading account assets,  

are based primarily on quoted market prices. Generally, quoted market prices for retained residual interests are not available; therefore, the Corporation estimates fair values based on the present value of the associated expected future cash flows. This may require management to estimate credit losses, prepayment speeds, forward interest yield curves, discount rates and other factors that impact the value of retained interests. Retained residual interests in unconsolidated securitization trusts are classified in trading account assets or other assets with changes in fair value recorded in income. The Corporation may also enter into derivatives with unconsolidated VIEs, which are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in income. 
  Fair Value 
  The Corporation measures the fair values of its financial instruments in accordance with accounting guidance that requires an entity to base fair value on exit price. A three-level hierarchy for inputs is utilized in measuring fair value which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used to determine the exit price when available. Under applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation categorizes its financial instruments, based on the priority of inputs to the valuation technique, into this three-level hierarchy, as described below. Trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, MSRs and certain other assets are carried at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The Corporation has also elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option, including certain commercial and consumer loans and loan commitments, LHFS, other short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits and long-term debt. The following describes the three-level hierarchy. 
    
           Level 1 
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity securities and derivative contracts that are traded in an active exchange market, as well as certain U.S. Treasury securities that are highly liquid and are actively traded in over-the-counter (OTC) markets. 
              Level 2 
    Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments and derivative contracts where fair value is determined using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. This category generally includes U.S. government and agency mortgage-backed debt securities, corporate debt securities, derivative contracts, residential mortgage loans and certain LHFS. 
              Level 3 
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the overall fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. The fair value for  

such assets and liabilities is generally determined using pricing models, market comparables, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques that incorporate the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. This category generally includes certain private equity investments and other principal investments, retained residual interests in securitizations, residential MSRs, asset-backed securities (ABS), highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts, certain LHFS, IRLCs and certain CDOs where independent pricing information cannot be obtained for a significant portion of the underlying assets. 
  Income Taxes 
  There are two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for tax attributes such as net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts management concludes are more-likely-than-not to be realized. 
  Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based upon a two-step model: first, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in order to be recognized, and second, the benefit is measured as the largest dollar amount of that position that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon settlement. The difference between the benefit recognized and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit (UTB). The Corporation records income tax-related interest and penalties, if applicable, within income tax expense. 
  Retirement Benefits 
  The Corporation has established retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and certain part-time employees. Pension expense under these plans is charged to current operations and consists of several components of net pension cost based on various actuarial assumptions regarding future experience under the plans. 
  In addition, the Corporation has established unfunded supplemental benefit plans and supplemental executive retirement plans (SERPs) for selected officers of the Corporation and its subsidiaries that provide benefits that cannot be paid from a qualified retirement plan due to Internal Revenue Code restrictions. The Corporation s current executive officers do not earn additional retirement income under SERPs. These plans are nonqualified under the Internal Revenue Code and assets used to fund benefit payments are not segregated from other assets of the Corporation; therefore, in general, a participant s or beneficiary s claim to benefits under these plans is as a general creditor. In addition, the Corporation has established several postretirement healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. 
  In connection with a redesign of the retirement plans, on January 24, 2012, the Corporation froze benefits earned in the  

Qualified Pension Plans effective June 30, 2012. As a result of this action, a curtailment was triggered and a remeasurement of the qualified pension obligations and plan assets occurred as of January 24, 2012. For additional information, see   Note 18   Employee Benefit Plans  . 
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
  The Corporation records unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities, gains and losses on cash flow accounting hedges, certain employee benefit plan adjustments, foreign currency translation adjustments and related hedges of net investments in foreign operations and the cumulative adjustment related to certain accounting changes in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. Unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities are reclassified to earnings as the gains or losses are realized upon sale of the securities. Unrealized losses on AFS securities deemed to represent OTTI are reclassified to earnings at the time of the impairment charge. For AFS debt securities that the Corporation does not intend to sell or it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell, only the credit component of an unrealized loss is reclassified to earnings. Gains or losses on derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges are reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. Translation gains or losses on foreign currency translation adjustments are reclassified to earnings upon the substantial sale or liquidation of investments in foreign operations. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  The following summarizes the Corporation s revenue recognition policies as they relate to certain noninterest income line items in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  Card income is derived from fees such as interchange, cash advance, annual, late, over-limit and other miscellaneous fees, which are recorded as revenue when earned, primarily on an accrual basis. Uncollected fees are included in the customer card receivables balances with an amount recorded in the allowance for loan and lease losses for estimated uncollectible card receivables. Uncollected fees are written off when a card receivable reaches   180   days past due. 
  Service charges include fees for insufficient funds, overdrafts and other banking services and are recorded as revenue when earned. Uncollected fees are included in outstanding loan balances with an amount recorded for estimated uncollectible service fees receivable. Uncollected fees are written off when a fee receivable reaches   60   days past due. 
  Investment and brokerage services revenue consists primarily of asset management fees and brokerage income that is recognized over the period the services are provided or when commissions are earned. Asset management fees consist primarily of fees for investment management and trust services and are generally based on the dollar amount of the assets being managed. Brokerage income is generally derived from commissions and fees earned on the sale of various financial products. 
  Investment banking income consists primarily of advisory and underwriting fees that are recognized in income as the services are provided and no contingencies exist. Revenues are generally recognized net of any direct expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses are recorded as noninterest expense. 

Earnings Per Common Share 
  Earnings per common share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income (loss) allocated to common shareholders by the weighted-average common shares outstanding, except that it does not include unvested common shares subject to repurchase or cancellation. Net income (loss) allocated to common shareholders represents net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders which is net income (loss) adjusted for preferred stock dividends including dividends declared, accretion of discounts on preferred stock including accelerated accretion when preferred stock is repaid early, and cumulative dividends related to the current dividend period that have not been declared as of period end, less income allocated to participating securities (see below for additional information). Diluted EPS is computed by dividing income (loss) allocated to common shareholders plus dividends on dilutive convertible preferred stock and preferred stock that can be tendered to exercise warrants by the weighted-average common shares outstanding plus amounts representing the dilutive effect of stock options outstanding, restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs), outstanding warrants and the dilution resulting from the conversion of convertible preferred stock, if applicable. Certain warrants may be exercised, at the option of the holder, through tendering of the Corporation s 6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T (the Series T Preferred Stock) or cash. Because it is currently more economical for the warrant holder to tender the Series T preferred stock, the common shares underlying these warrants are considered outstanding and the dividends on the preferred stock are added to income (loss) allocable to common shareholders in computing diluted EPS, unless the effect is antidilutive. 
  Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities that are included in computing EPS using the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula under which EPS is calculated for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and participating rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings, distributed and undistributed, are allocated to participating securities and common shares based on their respective rights to receive dividends. 
  In an exchange of non-convertible preferred stock, income allocated to common shareholders is adjusted for the difference between the carrying value of the preferred stock and the fair value of the consideration exchanged. In an induced conversion of convertible preferred stock, income allocated to common shareholders is reduced by the excess of the fair value of the consideration exchanged over the fair value of the common stock that would have been issued under the original conversion terms. 

Foreign Currency Translation 
  Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign branches and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of each entity. For certain of the foreign operations, the functional currency is the local currency, in which case the assets, liabilities and operations are translated, for consolidation purposes, from the local currency to the U.S. dollar reporting currency at period-end rates for assets and liabilities and generally at average rates for results of operations. The resulting unrealized gains or losses as well as gains and losses from certain hedges, are reported as a component of accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. When the foreign entity s functional currency is determined to be the U.S. dollar, the resulting remeasurement currency gains or losses on foreign currency-denominated assets or liabilities are included in earnings. 
  Credit Card and Deposit Arrangements 
  Endorsing Organization Agreements 
  The Corporation contracts with other organizations to obtain their endorsement of the Corporation s loan and deposit products. This endorsement may provide to the Corporation exclusive rights to market to the organization s members or to customers on behalf of the Corporation. These organizations endorse the Corporation s loan and deposit products and provide the Corporation with their mailing lists and marketing activities. These agreements generally have terms that range from   two   to   five   years. The Corporation typically pays royalties in exchange for the endorsement. Compensation costs related to the credit card agreements are recorded as contra-revenue in card income. 
  Cardholder Reward Agreements 
  The Corporation offers reward programs that allow its cardholders to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards including cash, travel and discounted products. The Corporation establishes a rewards liability based upon the points earned that are expected to be redeemed and the average cost per point redeemed. The points to be redeemed are estimated based on past redemption behavior, card product type, account transaction activity and other historical card performance. The liability is reduced as the points are redeemed. The estimated cost of the rewards programs is recorded as contra-revenue in card income. 

Insurance Income and Insurance Expense 
  Property and casualty and credit life and disability premiums are generally recognized over the term of the policies on a pro-rata basis for all policies except for certain of the lender-placed auto insurance and the guaranteed auto protection (GAP) policies. For lender-placed auto insurance, premiums are recognized when collections become probable due to high cancellation rates experienced early in the life of the policy. For GAP insurance, revenue recognition is correlated to the exposure and accelerated over the life of the contract. Mortgage reinsurance premiums are recognized as earned. Insurance expense includes insurance claims, commissions and premium taxes, all of which are recorded in other general operating expense. 

Accounting Policies 
  All significant accounting policies are discussed either in this Note or included in the Notes herein listed below. 

NOTE 2   Trading Account Assets and Liabilities 
  The table below presents the components of trading account assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

NOTE 3   Derivatives 
    Derivative Balances 
  Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading, or to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk management activities include derivatives that may or may not be designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships. Derivatives that are not designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships are referred to as other risk management derivatives. For additional information on the Corporation s derivatives and hedging activities, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting  

Principles  . The following tables present derivative instruments included on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet in derivative assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Balances are presented on a gross basis, prior to the application of counterparty and cash collateral netting. Total derivative assets and liabilities are adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by the cash collateral received or paid. 

(1)   
    Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding. 

(1)   
    Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding. 
       ALM and Risk Management Derivatives 
  The Corporation s ALM and risk management activities include the use of derivatives to mitigate risk to the Corporation including derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships and derivatives used in other risk management activities. Interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, commodity and credit contracts are utilized in the Corporation s ALM and risk management activities.  
  The Corporation maintains an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate contracts, which are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and basis swaps, options, futures and forwards, to minimize significant fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity and volatility so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings or capital. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged fixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in fair value. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged fixed-rate assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this unrealized appreciation or depreciation. 
  Market risk, including interest rate risk, can be substantial in the mortgage business. Market risk is the risk that values of mortgage assets or revenues will be adversely affected by changes  

in market conditions such as interest rate movements. To mitigate the interest rate risk in mortgage banking production income, the Corporation utilizes forward loan sale commitments and other derivative instruments including purchased options and certain debt securities. The Corporation also utilizes derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward settlement contracts and Eurodollar futures to hedge certain market risks of MSRs. For additional information on MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  The Corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, as well as the Corporation s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot and forward contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon settlement date. Exposure to loss on these contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate.  
  The Corporation enters into derivative commodity contracts such as futures, swaps, options and forwards as well as non-derivative commodity contracts to provide price risk management services to customers or to manage price risk associated with its physical and financial commodity positions. The non-derivative  

commodity contracts and physical inventories of commodities expose the Corporation to earnings volatility. Cash flow and fair value accounting hedges provide a method to mitigate a portion of this earnings volatility.  
  The Corporation purchases credit derivatives to manage credit risk related to certain funded and unfunded credit exposures. Credit derivatives include credit default swaps (CDS), total return swaps and swaptions. These derivatives are recorded on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss).  
  Derivatives Designated as Accounting Hedges 
  The Corporation uses various types of interest rate, commodity and foreign exchange derivative contracts to protect against changes in the fair value of its assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates, commodity prices and exchange rates (fair value hedges). The Corporation also uses these types of contracts and equity derivatives to protect against changes in the cash flows of its assets and liabilities, and other forecasted transactions (cash flow hedges). The Corporation hedges its net  

investment in consolidated non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward exchange contracts and cross-currency basis swaps, and by issuing foreign currency-denominated debt (net investment hedges). 
  Fair Value Hedges 
  The table below summarizes certain information related to fair value hedges for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , including hedges of interest rate risk on long-term debt that were acquired as part of a business combination and redesignated. At redesignation, the fair value of the derivatives was negative. As the derivatives mature, the fair value will approach zero. As a result, ineffectiveness may occur and the fair value changes in the derivatives and the long-term debt being hedged may be directionally the same in certain scenarios. Based on a regression analysis, the derivatives continue to be highly effective at offsetting changes in the fair value of the long-term debt attributable to interest rate risk. 

(1)   
    Amounts are recorded in interest expense on long-term debt and in other income (loss). 
               (2)   
    Amounts are recorded in interest income on debt securities. 
               (3)   
    Amounts relating to commodity inventory are recorded in trading account profits. 

Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges 
  The table below summarizes certain information related to cash flow hedges and net investment hedges for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . During the next 12 months, net losses in accumulated OCI of   $981 million   (  $618 million   after-tax) on derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges are expected to be reclassified into earnings. These net losses reclassified into earnings are expected to primarily reduce net interest income related to the respective hedged items. Amounts related to commodity price risk  

reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in trading account profits with the underlying hedged item. Amounts related to price risk on restricted stock awards reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in personnel expense.  
  Amounts related to foreign exchange risk recognized in accumulated OCI on derivatives exclude pre-tax losses of   $7 million  , and pre-tax gains of   $82 million   and   $192 million   related to long-term debt designated as a net investment hedge for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. 

(1)   
    Amounts related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges represent hedge ineffectiveness and amounts related to net investment hedges represent amounts excluded from effectiveness testing. 
       The Corporation enters into equity total return swaps to hedge a portion of RSUs granted to certain employees as part of their compensation. Certain awards contain clawback provisions which permit the Corporation to cancel all or a portion of the award under specified circumstances, and certain awards may be settled in cash. These RSUs are accrued as liabilities over the vesting period and adjusted to fair value based on changes in the share price of the Corporation s common stock. From time to time, the Corporation may enter into equity derivatives to minimize the change in the expense driven by fluctuations in the share price of  

the common stock during the vesting period of any RSUs that may be granted, if any, subject to similar or other terms and conditions. Certain of these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges of unrecognized unvested awards with changes in fair value of the hedge recorded in accumulated OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period as the RSUs affect earnings. The remaining derivatives are other risk management derivatives and changes in fair value are recorded in personnel expense. For more information on RSUs and related hedges, see   Note 19   Stock-based Compensation Plans  . 

Other Risk Management Derivatives 
  Other risk management derivatives are used by the Corporation to reduce certain risk exposures. These derivatives are not qualifying accounting hedges because either they did not qualify for or were not designated as accounting hedges. The table below presents gains (losses) on these derivatives for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . These gains (losses) are largely offset by the income or expense that is recorded on the hedged item. 

(1)   
    Net gains on these derivatives are recorded in mortgage banking income (loss). 
               (2)   
    Includes net gains on interest rate lock commitments related to the origination of mortgage loans that are held-for-sale, which are considered derivative instruments, of   $3.0 billion  ,   $3.8 billion   and   $8.7 billion   for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. 
               (3)   
    Net gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in other income (loss). 
               (4)   
    The majority of the balance is related to the revaluation of derivatives used to mitigate risk related to foreign currency-denominated debt which is recorded in other income (loss). The offsetting revaluation of the foreign currency-denominated debt, while not included in the table above, is also recorded in other income (loss). 
               (5)   
    Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in personnel expense. 
       Sales and Trading Revenue 
  The Corporation enters into trading derivatives to facilitate client transactions, for principal trading purposes, and to manage risk exposures arising from trading account assets and liabilities. It is the Corporation s policy to include these derivative instruments in its trading activities which include derivatives and non-derivative cash instruments. The resulting risk from these derivatives is managed on a portfolio basis as part of the Corporation s   Global Markets   business segment. The related sales and trading revenue generated within   Global Markets   is recorded in various income statement line items including trading account profits and net interest income as well as other revenue categories. However, the majority of income related to derivative instruments is recorded in trading account profits.  
  Sales and trading revenue includes changes in the fair value and realized gains and losses on the sales of trading and other assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Revenue is generated by the difference in the client price for an instrument and the price at which the trading  

desk can execute the trade in the dealer market. For equity securities, commissions related to purchases and sales are recorded in other income (loss). Changes in the fair value of these securities are included in trading account profits. For debt securities, revenue, with the exception of interest associated with the debt securities, is typically included in trading account profits. Unlike commissions for equity securities, the initial revenue related to broker/dealer services for debt securities is typically included in the pricing of the instrument rather than being charged through separate fee arrangements. Therefore, this revenue is recorded in trading account profits as part of the initial mark to fair value. For derivatives, all revenue is included in trading account profits. In transactions where the Corporation acts as agent, which include exchange-traded futures and options, fees are recorded in other income (loss). 
  Gains (losses) on certain instruments, primarily loans, that the   Global Markets   business segment shares with   Global Banking   are not considered trading instruments and are excluded from sales and trading revenue in their entirety. 

The table below, which includes both derivatives and non-derivative cash instruments, identifies the amounts in the respective income statement line items attributable to the Corporation s sales and trading revenue in   Global Markets  , categorized by primary risk, for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . The difference between total trading account profits in the table below  

and in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income represents trading activities in business segments other than   Global Markets  .   Global Markets   results in     Note 26   Business Segment Information   are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis. The table below is not presented on a FTE basis.  

(1)   
    Represents amounts in investment and brokerage services and other income (loss) that are recorded in   Global Markets   and included in the definition of sales and trading revenue. Includes investment and brokerage services revenue of   $1.8 billion  ,   $2.2 billion   and   $2.3 billion   for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively, primarily included in equity risk. 
       Credit Derivatives 
  The Corporation enters into credit derivatives primarily to facilitate client transactions and to manage credit risk exposures. Credit derivatives derive value based on an underlying third-party referenced obligation or a portfolio of referenced obligations and generally require the Corporation, as the seller of credit protection, to make payments to a buyer upon the occurrence of a pre-defined credit event. Such credit events generally include bankruptcy of  

the referenced credit entity and failure to pay under the obligation, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. For credit derivatives based on a portfolio of referenced credits or credit indices, the Corporation may not be required to make payment until a specified amount of loss has occurred and/or may only be required to make payment up to a specified amount. 

Credit derivative instruments where the Corporation is the seller of credit protection and their expiration are summarized at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   in the table below. These instruments are classified as investment and non-investment grade based on the credit quality of the underlying referenced obligation. The Corporation considers ratings of BBB- or higher as investment grade. Non-investment grade includes non-rated credit derivative instruments. 

(1)   
    For credit-related notes, maximum payout/notional is the same as carrying value. 

The notional amount represents the maximum amount payable by the Corporation for most credit derivatives. However, the Corporation does not monitor its exposure to credit derivatives based solely on the notional amount because this measure does not take into consideration the probability of occurrence. As such, the notional amount is not a reliable indicator of the Corporation s exposure to these contracts. Instead, a risk framework is used to define risk tolerances and establish limits to help ensure that certain credit risk-related losses occur within acceptable, predefined limits. 
  The Corporation manages its market risk exposure to credit derivatives by entering into a variety of offsetting derivative contracts and security positions. For example, in certain instances, the Corporation may purchase credit protection with identical underlying referenced names to offset its exposure. The carrying value and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names and terms at   December 31, 2012   was   $20.7 billion   and   $1.1 trillion   compared to   $48.0 billion   and   $1.0 trillion   at   December 31, 2011  . 
  Credit-related notes in the table on page   180   include investments in securities issued by CDO, collateralized loan obligation (CLO) and credit-linked note vehicles. These instruments are primarily classified as trading securities. The carrying value of these instruments equals the Corporation s maximum exposure to loss. The Corporation is not obligated to make any payments to the entities under the terms of the securities owned. The Corporation discloses internal categorizations of investment grade and non-investment grade consistent with how risk is managed for these instruments. 
  Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral 
  The Corporation executes the majority of its derivative contracts in the OTC market with large, international financial institutions, including broker/dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of non-financial companies. Substantially all of the derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit rating downgrade (depending on the ultimate rating level) or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required of the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow the Corporation to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. Further, as previously discussed on page   174  , the Corporation enters into legally enforceable master netting agreements which reduce risk by permitting the closeout and netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon the occurrence of certain events. 
  A majority of the Corporation s derivative contracts contain credit risk related contingent features, primarily in the form of International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) master netting agreements and credit support documentation that enhance the creditworthiness of these instruments compared to other obligations of the respective counterparty with whom the Corporation has transacted. These contingent features may be for the benefit of the Corporation as well as its counterparties with respect to changes in the Corporation s creditworthiness and the mark-to-market exposure under the derivative transactions. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation held cash and securities collateral of   $85.6 billion   and   $87.7 billion  , and posted cash and securities collateral of   $74.1 billion   and   $86.5 billion   in the normal course of business under derivative agreements. 

In connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, the Corporation can be required to provide additional collateral or to terminate transactions with certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade of the senior debt ratings of the Corporation or certain subsidiaries. The amount of additional collateral required depends on the contract and is usually a fixed incremental amount and/or the market value of the exposure.  
  At   December 31, 2012  , the amount of collateral, calculated based on the terms of the contracts, that the Corporation and certain subsidiaries could be required to post to counterparties but had not yet posted to counterparties was approximately   $2.2 billion  , comprised of   $721 million   for BANA and   $1.5 billion   for Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch) and certain of its subsidiaries. 
  Some counterparties are currently able to unilaterally terminate certain contracts, or the Corporation or certain subsidiaries may be required to take other action such as find a suitable replacement or obtain a guarantee. At   December 31, 2012  , the current liability recorded for these derivative contracts was   $1.7 billion  , against which the Corporation and certain subsidiaries had posted approximately   $1.6 billion   of collateral. 
  At   December 31, 2012  ,   if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the amount of additional collateral contractually required by derivative contracts and other trading agreements would have been approximately     $3.3 billion     comprised of     $2.9 billion     for BANA and     $418 million     for Merrill Lynch and certain of its subsidiaries. If the agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for these entities by a second incremental notch, approximately     $4.4 billion     in additional incremental collateral comprised of     $455 million     for BANA and     $4.0 billion     for Merrill Lynch and certain of its subsidiaries would have been required.    
  Also, if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of     December 31, 2012     was     $3.8 billion  ,   against which     $3.0 billion     of collateral has been posted. If the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation and certain subsidiaries by a second incremental notch, the derivative liability that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties as of     December 31, 2012     was an incremental     $1.7 billion  ,   against which     $1.1 billion     of collateral has been posted.    
  Valuation Adjustments on Derivatives 
  The Corporation records credit risk valuation adjustments on derivatives in order to properly reflect the credit quality of the counterparties and its own credit quality. The Corporation calculates valuation adjustments on derivatives based on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk factors. The exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. CDS spread data is used to estimate the default probabilities and severities that are applied to the exposures. Where no observable credit default data is available for counterparties, the Corporation uses proxies and other market data to estimate default probabilities and severity. 
  Valuation adjustments on derivatives are affected by changes in market spreads, non-credit related market factors such as  

interest rate and currency changes that affect the expected exposure, and other factors like changes in collateral arrangements and partial payments. Credit spread changes and non-credit factors can move independently. For example, for an interest rate swap, changes in interest rates may increase the expected exposure which would increase the counterparty credit valuation adjustment (CVA). Independently, counterparty credit spreads may tighten, which would result in an offsetting decrease to CVA. 
  The Corporation may enter into risk management activities to offset market driven exposures. The Corporation often hedges the counterparty spread risk in CVA with CDS and often hedges the other market risks in both CVA and debit valuation adjustments (DVA) primarily with currency and interest rate swaps. Since the components of the valuation adjustments on derivatives move independently and the Corporation may not hedge all of the market driven exposures, the effect of a hedge may increase the gross valuation adjustments on derivatives or may result in a gross positive valuation adjustment on derivatives becoming a negative adjustment (or the reverse). 

During   2012  , the Corporation refined its methodology for calculating valuation adjustments on derivatives on a prospective basis. The Corporation no longer considers the probability of default for both the counterparty and the Corporation when calculating the counterparty CVA and DVA and now only considers the probability of the counterparty defaulting for CVA and the Corporation defaulting for DVA. 
  The table below presents CVA and DVA gains (losses) for the Corporation on a gross and net of hedge basis, which are recorded in trading account profits. 

NOTE 4   Securities 
  The table below presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of debt and marketable equity securities at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(2)   
    Classified in other assets on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

At   December 31, 2012  , the accumulated net unrealized gains on AFS debt securities included in accumulated OCI were   $4.4 billion  , net of the related income tax expense of   $2.6 billion  . At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation had nonperforming AFS debt securities of   $91 million   and   $140 million  . 
  The Corporation recorded OTTI losses on AFS debt securities for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   as presented in the table below. A debt security is impaired when its fair value is less than its amortized cost. If the Corporation intends or will more-likely-than-not be required to sell the debt securities prior to recovery, the entire impairment loss is recorded in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income. For debt securities the Corporation does not intend or will not more-likely-than-not be required to sell, an  

analysis is performed to determine if any of the impairment is due to credit or whether it is due to other factors (e.g., interest rate). Credit losses are considered unrecoverable and are recorded in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income with the remaining unrealized losses recorded in accumulated OCI. In certain instances, the credit loss on a debt security may exceed the total impairment, in which case, the portion of the credit loss that exceeds the total impairment is recorded as an unrealized gain in accumulated OCI. Balances in the table below exclude   $5 million  ,   $9 million   and   $51 million   of unrealized gains recorded in accumulated OCI related to these securities for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. 

The Corporation s net impairment losses recognized in earnings consist of write-downs to fair value on AFS securities the Corporation has the intent to sell or will more-likely-than-not be required to sell and all credit losses. The table below presents a  

rollforward of the credit losses recognized in earnings in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   on AFS debt securities that the Corporation does not have the intent to sell or will not more-likely-than-not be required to sell. 

The Corporation estimates the portion of a loss on a security that is attributable to credit using a discounted cash flow model and estimates the expected cash flows of the underlying collateral using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate management s best estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. Assumptions used for the underlying loans that support the MBS can vary widely from loan to loan and are influenced by such  

factors as loan interest rate, geographic location of the borrower, borrower characteristics and collateral type. Based on these assumptions, the Corporation then determines how the underlying collateral cash flows will be distributed to each MBS issued from the applicable special purpose entity. Expected principal and interest cash flows on an impaired AFS debt security are discounted using the effective yield of each individual impaired AFS debt security. 

Significant assumptions used in estimating the expected cash flows for measuring credit losses on non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) were as follows at   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the underlying collateral. 
               (2)   
    The value of a variable below which the indicated percentile of observations will fall. 

Annual constant prepayment speed and loss severity rates are projected considering collateral characteristics such as LTV, creditworthiness of borrowers as measured using FICO scores and geographic concentrations. The weighted-average severity by collateral type was   45.8 percent   for prime,   50.6 percent   for Alt-A and   55.9 percent   for subprime at   December 31, 2012  . Additionally, default rates are projected by considering collateral characteristics including, but not limited to, LTV, FICO and geographic concentration. Weighted-average life default rates by collateral type were   39.5 percent   for prime,   63.5 percent   for Alt-A and   41.8 percent   for subprime at   December 31, 2012  .  
  The table below presents the fair value and the associated gross unrealized losses on AFS securities with gross unrealized losses at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , and whether these securities have had gross unrealized losses for less than twelve months or for twelve months or longer. 

(1)   
    Includes other-than-temporarily impaired AFS debt securities on which an OTTI loss remains in OCI. 

The amortized cost and fair value of the Corporation s investment in AFS and HTM debt securities from FNMA, the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA), FHLMC and U.S. Treasury securities where the investment exceeded 10 percent of consolidated shareholders  equity at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   are presented in the table below. 

The expected maturity distribution of the Corporation s MBS and the contractual maturity distribution of the Corporation s other AFS debt securities, and the yields on the Corporation s AFS debt securities portfolio at   December 31, 2012   are summarized in the  

table below. Actual maturities may differ from the contractual or expected maturities since borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations with or without prepayment penalties. 

(1)   
    Average yield is computed using the effective yield of each security at the end of the period, weighted based on the amortized cost of each security. The effective yield considers the contractual coupon, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, and excludes the effect of related hedging derivatives. 
               (2)   
    Substantially all U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities. 

The gross realized gains and losses on sales of AFS debt securities for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   are presented in the table below. 

Certain Corporate and Strategic Investments 
  At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation owned   2.0 billion   shares representing approximately   one percent   of China  

Construction Bank Corporation (CCB). Sales restrictions on these shares continue until August 2013. Because the sales restrictions on these shares will expire within one year, these securities are accounted for as AFS marketable equity securities and are carried at fair value with the after-tax unrealized gain included in accumulated OCI. At December 31, 2011, this investment was accounted for at cost. The carrying value of the investment at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   was   $1.4 billion   and   $716 million  , and the cost basis and the fair value were   $716 million   and   $1.4 billion   for both periods. There is a strategic assistance agreement between the Corporation and CCB, which includes cooperation in specific business areas. 
  The Corporation s   49 percent   investment in a merchant services joint venture had a carrying value of   $3.3 billion   and   $3.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . For additional information, see   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies  . 

NOTE 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases 
  The following tables present total outstanding loans and leases and an aging analysis for the Corporation s Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(2)   
    Home loans includes   $22.2 billion   of fully-insured loans. 
               (3)   
    Home loans includes   $5.5 billion   and direct/indirect consumer includes   $63 million   of nonperforming loans. 
               (4)   
    PCI loan amounts are shown gross of the valuation allowance. 
               (5)   
    Total outstandings includes non-U.S. residential mortgage loans of   $93 million  . 
               (6)   
    Total outstandings includes   $8.8 billion   of pay option loans and   $1.1 billion   of subprime loans. The Corporation no longer originates these products. 
               (7)   
    Total outstandings includes dealer financial services loans of   $35.9 billion  , consumer lending loans of   $4.7 billion  , U.S. securities-based lending margin loans of   $28.3 billion  , student loans of   $4.8 billion  , non-U.S. consumer loans of   $8.3 billion   and other consumer loans of   $1.2 billion  . 
               (8)   
    Total outstandings includes consumer finance loans of   $1.4 billion  , other non-U.S. consumer loans of   $5 million   and consumer overdrafts of   $177 million  .  
               (9)   
    Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option were residential mortgage loans of   $147 million   and discontinued real estate loans of   $858 million  . Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option were U.S. commercial loans of   $2.3 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $5.7 billion  . For additional information, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option  . 
               (10)   
    Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $37.2 billion   and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $1.5 billion  . 

(2)   
    Home loans includes   $21.2 billion   of fully-insured loans. 
               (3)   
    Home loans includes   $1.8 billion   and direct/indirect consumer includes   $7 million   of nonperforming loans. 
               (4)   
    PCI loan amounts are shown gross of the valuation allowance. 
               (5)   
    Total outstandings includes non-U.S. residential mortgage loans of   $85 million  . 
               (6)   
    Total outstandings includes   $9.9 billion   of pay option loans and   $1.2 billion   of subprime loans. The Corporation no longer originates these products. 
               (7)   
    Total outstandings includes dealer financial services loans of   $43.0 billion  , consumer lending loans of   $8.0 billion  , U.S. securities-based lending margin loans of   $23.6 billion  , student loans of   $6.0 billion  , non-U.S. consumer loans of   $7.6 billion   and other consumer loans of   $1.5 billion  . 
               (8)   
    Total outstandings includes consumer finance loans of   $1.7 billion  , other non-U.S. consumer loans of   $929 million   and consumer overdrafts of   $103 million  . 
               (9)   
    Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option were residential mortgage loans of   $906 million   and discontinued real estate loans of   $1.3 billion  . Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option were U.S. commercial loans of   $2.2 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $4.4 billion  . For additional information, see   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 22   Fair Value Option  . 
               (10)   
    Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $37.8 billion   and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $1.8 billion  . 

The Corporation mitigates a portion of its credit risk on the residential mortgage portfolio through the use of synthetic securitization vehicles. These vehicles issue long-term notes to investors, the proceeds of which are held as cash collateral. The Corporation pays a premium to the vehicles to purchase mezzanine loss protection on a portfolio of residential mortgage loans owned by the Corporation. Cash held in the vehicles is used to reimburse the Corporation in the event that losses on the mortgage portfolio exceed 10 basis points (bps) of the original pool balance, up to the remaining amount of purchased loss protection of   $500 million   and   $783 million   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . The vehicles from which the Corporation purchases credit protection are VIEs. The Corporation does not have a variable interest in these vehicles, and accordingly, these vehicles are not consolidated by the Corporation. Amounts due from the vehicles are recorded in other income (loss) when the Corporation recognizes a reimbursable loss, as described above. Amounts are collected when reimbursable losses are realized through the sale of the underlying collateral. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation had a receivable of   $305 million   and   $359 million   from these vehicles for reimbursement of losses, and principal of   $17.6 billion   and   $23.9 billion   of residential mortgage loans was referenced under these agreements. The Corporation records an allowance for credit losses on these loans without regard to the existence of the purchased loss protection as the protection does not represent a guarantee of individual loans. 
  In addition, the Corporation has entered into long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC on loans totaling   $24.3 billion   and   $24.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , providing full protection on residential mortgage loans that become severely delinquent. All of these loans are individually insured and therefore the Corporation does not record an allowance for credit losses related to these loans. For additional information, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  .  

Nonperforming Loans and Leases 
  In 2012, the bank regulatory agencies jointly issued interagency supervisory guidance on nonaccrual status for junior-lien consumer real estate loans. In accordance with this regulatory interagency guidance, the Corporation classifies junior-lien home equity loans as nonperforming when the first-lien loan becomes 90 days past due even if the junior-lien loan is performing, and as a result, an incremental   $1.5 billion   was included in nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2012  . The regulatory interagency guidance had no impact on the Corporation s allowance for loan and lease losses or provision for credit losses as the delinquency status of the underlying first-lien loans was already considered in the Corporation s reserving process. 
  In 2012, new regulatory guidance was issued addressing certain consumer real estate loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. In accordance with this new guidance, the Corporation classifies consumer real estate and other secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower as TDRs, irrespective of payment history or delinquency status, even if the repayment terms for the loan have not been otherwise modified. The Corporation continues to have a lien on the underlying collateral. Previously, such loans were classified as TDRs only if there had been a change in contractual payment terms that represented a concession to the borrower. The net impact upon implementation to the consumer loan portfolio of adopting this new regulatory guidance was   $1.2 billion   in net new nonperforming loans, and   $1.1 billion   of such loans were included in nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2012  . Of the   $1.1 billion  ,   $1.0 billion  , or   92 percent  , were current on their contractual payments. Of these contractually current nonperforming loans, more than   70 percent   were discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy more than 12 months ago, and more than   40 percent   were discharged 24 months or more ago. As subsequent cash payments are received, the interest component of the payments is generally recorded as interest income on a cash basis and the principal component is generally recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the loan. 

The table below presents the Corporation s nonperforming loans and leases including nonperforming TDRs and loans accruing past due 90 days or more at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Nonperforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming  

loans and leases as they are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. See   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   for further information on the criteria for classification as nonperforming. 

(2)   
    Residential mortgage loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , residential mortgage includes   $17.8 billion   and   $17.0 billion   of loans on which interest has been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore are no longer accruing interest, although principal is still insured, and   $4.4 billion   and   $4.2 billion   of loans on which interest is still accruing. 
     n/a = not applicable 
    Credit Quality Indicators 
  The Corporation monitors credit quality within its Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments based on primary credit quality indicators. For more information on the portfolio segments, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . Within the Home Loans portfolio segment, the primary credit quality indicators are refreshed LTV and refreshed FICO score. Refreshed LTV measures the carrying value of the loan as a percentage of the value of property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly. Home equity loans are evaluated using CLTV which measures the carrying value of the combined loans that have liens against the property and the available line of credit as a percentage of the appraised value of the property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly. FICO score measures the creditworthiness of the borrower based on the financial obligations of the borrower and the borrower s credit history. At a minimum,  

FICO scores are refreshed quarterly, and in many cases, more frequently. FICO scores are also a primary credit quality indicator for the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and the business card portfolio within U.S. small business commercial. Within the Commercial portfolio segment, loans are evaluated using the internal classifications of pass rated or reservable criticized as the primary credit quality indicators. The term reservable criticized refers to those commercial loans that are internally classified or listed by the Corporation as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful, which are asset categories defined by regulatory authorities. These assets have an elevated level of risk and may have a high probability of default or total loss. Pass rated refers to all loans not considered reservable criticized. In addition to these primary credit quality indicators, the Corporation uses other credit quality indicators for certain types of loans. 

The following tables present certain credit quality indicators for the Corporation s Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

(1)   
    Excludes   $1.0 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Excludes Countrywide PCI loans. 
               (3)   
    Refreshed LTV percentages for PCI loans are calculated using the carrying value net of the related valuation allowance. 
               (4)   
    Credit quality indicators are not reported for fully-insured loans as principal repayment is insured. 

(1)   
    87 percent   of the other consumer portfolio is associated with portfolios from certain consumer finance businesses that the Corporation previously exited. 
               (2)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. 
               (3)   
    Direct/indirect consumer includes   $36.5 billion   of securities-based lending which is overcollateralized and therefore has minimal credit risk and   $4.8 billion   of loans the Corporation no longer originates. 
               (4)   
    Non-U.S. credit card represents the U.K. credit card portfolio which is evaluated using internal credit metrics, including delinquency status. At   December 31, 2012  ,   97 percent   of this portfolio was current or less than 30 days past due,   one percent   was 30-89 days past due and   two percent   was 90 days or more past due. 

(1)   
    Excludes   $8.0 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    U.S. small business commercial includes   $366 million   of criticized business card and small business loans which are evaluated using refreshed FICO scores or internal credit metrics, including delinquency status, rather than risk ratings. At   December 31, 2012  ,   98 percent   of the balances where internal credit metrics are used were current or less than 30 days past due. 
               (3)   
    Refreshed FICO score and other internal credit metrics are applicable only to the U.S. small business commercial portfolio. 
               (4)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, application scores, geography or other factors. 

(1)   
    Excludes   $2.2 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Excludes Countrywide PCI loans. 
               (3)   
    Refreshed LTV percentages for PCI loans are calculated using the carrying value net of the related valuation allowance. 
               (4)   
    Credit quality indicators are not reported for fully-insured loans as principal repayment is insured. 
               (5)   
    During 2012, refreshed home equity FICO metrics reflected an updated scoring model that is more representative of the credit risk of the Corporation s borrowers. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect these updates. 

(1)   
    96 percent   of the other consumer portfolio is associated with portfolios from certain consumer finance businesses that the Corporation previously exited. 
               (2)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. 
               (3)   
    Direct/indirect consumer includes   $31.1 billion   of securities-based lending which is overcollateralized and therefore has minimal credit risk and   $6.0 billion   of loans the Corporation no longer originates. 
               (4)   
    Non-U.S. credit card represents the U.K. credit card portfolio which is evaluated using internal credit metrics, including delinquency status. At   December 31, 2011  ,   96 percent   of this portfolio was current or less than 30 days past due,   two percent   was 30-89 days past due and   two percent   was 90 days or more past due. 

(1)   
    Excludes   $6.6 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    U.S. small business commercial includes   $491 million   of criticized business card and small business loans which are evaluated using refreshed FICO scores or internal credit metrics, including delinquency status, rather than risk ratings. At   December 31, 2011  ,   97 percent   of the balances where internal credit metrics are used were current or less than 30 days past due. 
               (3)   
    Refreshed FICO score and other internal credit metrics are applicable only to the U.S. small business commercial portfolio. 
               (4)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, application scores, geography or other factors. 

Impaired Loans and Troubled Debt Restructurings 
  A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. Impaired loans include nonperforming commercial loans and all consumer and commercial TDRs. Impaired loans exclude nonperforming consumer loans and nonperforming commercial leases unless they are classified as TDRs. Loans accounted for under the fair value option are also excluded. PCI loans are excluded and reported separately on page   201  . 
  Home Loans 
  Impaired home loans within the Home Loans portfolio segment consist entirely of TDRs. Excluding PCI loans, most modifications of home loans meet the definition of TDRs when a binding offer is extended to a borrower. Modifications of home loans are done in accordance with the government s Making Home Affordable Program (modifications under government programs) or the Corporation s proprietary programs (modifications under proprietary programs). These modifications are considered to be TDRs if concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Concessions may include reductions in interest rates, capitalization of past due amounts, principal and/or interest forbearance, payment extensions, principal and/or interest forgiveness, or combinations thereof. In 2012, the Corporation implemented a borrower assistance program that provides forgiveness of principal balances in connection with the settlement agreement among the Corporation and certain of its affiliates and subsidiaries, together with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and other federal agencies, and 49 state Attorneys General concerning the terms of a global settlement resolving investigations into certain origination, servicing and foreclosure practices (National Mortgage Settlement). 
  Prior to permanently modifying a loan, the Corporation may enter into trial modifications with certain borrowers under both government and proprietary programs, including the borrower assistance program pursuant to the National Mortgage Settlement. Trial modifications generally represent a three- to four-month period during which the borrower makes monthly payments under the anticipated modified payment terms. Upon successful completion of the trial period, the Corporation and the borrower enter into a permanent modification. Binding trial modifications are classified as TDRs when the trial offer is made and continue to be classified as TDRs regardless of whether the borrower enters into a permanent modification. 
  In 2012, new regulatory guidance was issued addressing certain home loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and as a result, an additional   $3.5 billion   of home loans were included in TDRs at   December 31, 2012  , of which   $1.2 billion   were current or less than 60 days past due. Of the   $3.5 billion   of home loan TDRs, approximately   27 percent  ,   42 percent   and   31 percent   had been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy in   2012  ,   2011   and prior years, respectively. For more information on  

the new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, see Nonperforming Loans and Leases in this Note. 
  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, a home loan, excluding PCI loans which are reported separately, is not classified as impaired unless it is a TDR. Once such a loan has been designated as a TDR, it is then individually assessed for impairment. Home loan TDRs are measured primarily based on the net present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, as discussed in the paragraph below. If the carrying value of a TDR exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is recorded as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses. Alternatively, home loan TDRs that are considered to be dependent solely on the collateral for repayment (e.g., due to the lack of income verification or as a result of being discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy) are measured based on the estimated fair value of the collateral and a charge-off is recorded if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the collateral. Home loans that reached 180 days past due prior to modification had been charged off to their net realizable value before they were modified as TDRs in accordance with established policy. Therefore, modifications of home loans that are 180 days or more past due as TDRs do not have an impact on the allowance for loan and lease losses nor are additional charge-offs required at the time of modification. Subsequent declines in the fair value of the collateral after a loan has reached 180 days past due are recorded as charge-offs. Fully-insured loans are protected against principal loss, and therefore, the Corporation does not record an allowance for loan and lease losses on the outstanding principal balance, even after they have been modified in a TDR. 
  The net present value of the estimated cash flows is based on model-driven estimates of projected payments, prepayments, defaults and loss-given-default (LGD). Using statistical modeling methodologies, the Corporation estimates the probability that a loan will default prior to maturity based on the attributes of each loan. The factors that are most relevant to the probability of default are the refreshed LTV, or in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed CLTV, borrower credit score, months since origination (i.e., vintage) and geography. Each of these factors is further broken down by present collection status (whether the loan is current, delinquent, in default or in bankruptcy). Severity (or LGD) is estimated based on the refreshed LTV for first mortgages or CLTV for subordinated liens. The estimates are based on the Corporation s historical experience, but are adjusted to reflect an assessment of environmental factors that may not be reflected in the historical data, such as changes in real estate values, local and national economies, underwriting standards and the regulatory environment. The probability of default models also incorporate recent experience with modification programs, a loan s default history prior to modification and the change in borrower payments post-modification. 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , remaining commitments to lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified in a home loan TDR were immaterial. Home loan foreclosed properties totaled   $650 million   and   $2.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

The table below presents impaired loans in the Corporation s Home Loans portfolio segment at and for the years ended   December 31, 2012 and 2011   and includes primarily loans managed by Legacy Assets   Servicing. Certain impaired home loans do not have a related allowance as the current valuation of these impaired loans exceeded the carrying value. 

(1)   
    Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible.  
     n/a = not applicable 

The table below presents the   December 31, 2012 and 2011   unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average pre- and post-modification interest rates of home loans that were modified in TDRs during   2012   and   2011  , and net charge-offs that were recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. The  

following Home Loans portfolio segment tables include loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the period and also loans that had previously been classified as TDRs and were modified again during the period. These TDRs are managed by Legacy Assets   Servicing. 

(1)   
    TDRs entered into during   2012   include principal forgiveness as follows: residential mortgage modifications of   $755 million  , home equity modifications of   $9 million   and discontinued real estate modifications of   $23 million  . Prior to 2012, the principal forgiveness amount was not significant. 
     The table below presents the   December 31, 2012 and 2011   carrying value for home loans that were modified in TDRs during   2012   and   2011   by type of modification. 

(1)   
    Includes other modifications such as term or payment extensions and repayment plans. 
               (2)   
    Includes loans newly classified as TDRs in accordance with new regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy that was issued in 2012. 

The table below presents the carrying value of loans that entered into payment default during   2012   and   2011   and that were modified in a TDR during the 12 months preceding payment default. A payment default for home loan TDRs is recognized when a borrower has missed three monthly payments (not necessarily  

consecutively) since modification. Payment default on trial modification where the borrower has not yet met the terms of the agreement are included in the table below if the borrower is 90 days or more past due three months after the offer to modify is made. 

Credit Card and Other Consumer 
  Impaired loans within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment consist entirely of loans that have been modified in TDRs (the renegotiated credit card and other consumer TDR portfolio collectively referred to as the renegotiated TDR portfolio). The Corporation seeks to assist customers that are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying loans while ensuring compliance with federal laws and guidelines. Substantially all of the Corporation s credit card and other consumer loan modifications involve reducing the interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all of which are considered TDRs. In all cases, the customer s available line of credit is canceled. The Corporation makes loan modifications directly with borrowers for debt held only by the Corporation (internal programs). Additionally, the Corporation makes loan modifications for borrowers working with third-party renegotiation agencies that provide solutions to customers  entire unsecured debt structures (external programs).  
  In 2012, new regulatory guidance was issued addressing certain consumer real estate loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The Corporation applies this guidance to  

other secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and such loans are classified as TDRs, written down to collateral value and placed on nonaccrual status no later than the time of discharge. 
  All credit card and substantially all other consumer loans that have been modified in TDRs remain on accrual status until the loan is either paid in full or charged off, which occurs no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due or 120 days past due for a loan that was placed on a fixed payment plan after July 1, 2012. 
  The allowance for impaired credit card loans is based on the present value of projected cash flows, which incorporates the Corporation s historical payment default and loss experience on modified loans, discounted using the portfolio s average contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Prior to modification, credit card and other consumer loans are included in homogeneous pools which are collectively evaluated for impairment. For these portfolios, loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, delinquencies, economic trends and credit scores.  

The table below provides information on the Corporation s renegotiated TDR portfolio at and for the years ended   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

(1)   
    Includes accrued interest and fees. 
               (2)   
    Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible. 
     The table below provides information on the Corporation s primary modification programs for the renegotiated TDR portfolio at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  .  

At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation had a renegotiated TDR portfolio of   $3.9 billion   and   $7.1 billion   of which   $3.1 billion   was current or less than 30 days past due under the modified terms at   December 31, 2012  . 
  The table below provides information on the Corporation s  

renegotiated TDR portfolio including the unpaid principal balance, carrying value and average pre- and post-modification interest rates of loans that were modified in TDRs during   2012   and   2011  , and net charge-offs that were recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. 

(1)   
    Includes accrued interest and fees. 
     The table below provides information on the Corporation s primary modification programs for the renegotiated TDR portfolio for loans that were modified in TDRs during   2012   and   2011  . 

Credit card and other consumer loans are deemed to be in payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses the second of two consecutive payments. Payment defaults are one of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses for impaired credit card and other consumer loans. At   December 31, 2012  , the allowance for loan and lease losses on the Corporation s renegotiated portfolio was   29.04 percent   of the carrying value of these loans. Loans that entered into payment default during   2012   and   2011   that had been modified in a TDR during the 12 months preceding payment default were   $203 million   and   $863 million   for U.S. credit card,   $298 million   and   $409 million   for non-U.S. credit card and   $35 million   and   $180 million   for direct/indirect consumer. 
  Commercial Loans 
  Impaired commercial loans, which include nonperforming loans and TDRs (both performing and nonperforming) are primarily  

measured based on the present value of payments expected to be received, discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate. Commercial impaired loans may also be measured based on observable market prices or, for loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, the estimated fair value of collateral less estimated costs to sell. If the carrying value of a loan exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is recorded as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses. 
  Modifications of loans to commercial borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulty are designed to reduce the Corporation s loss exposure while providing the borrower with an opportunity to work through financial difficulties, often to avoid foreclosure or bankruptcy. Each modification is unique and reflects the individual circumstances of the borrower. Modifications that result in a TDR may include extensions of maturity at a concessionary (below market) rate of interest, payment forbearances or other actions     designed to benefit the customer while mitigating the Corporation s risk exposure. Reductions in  

interest rates are rare. Instead, the interest rates are typically increased, although the increased rate may not represent a market rate of interest. Infrequently, concessions may also include principal forgiveness in connection with foreclosure, short sale or other settlement agreements leading to termination or sale of the loan. 
  At the time of restructuring, the loans are remeasured to reflect the impact, if any, on projected cash flows resulting from the modified terms. If there was no forgiveness of principal and the interest rate was not decreased, the modification may have little or no impact on the allowance established for the loan. If a portion of the loan is deemed to be uncollectible, a charge-off may be recorded at the time of restructuring. Alternatively, a charge-off may have already been recorded in a previous period such that no  

charge-off is required at the time of modification. For information concerning modifications for the U.S. small business commercial portfolio, see Credit Card and Other Consumer in this Note. 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , remaining commitments to lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified in a commercial loan TDR were immaterial. Commercial foreclosed properties totaled   $250 million   and   $612 million   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  .  
  The table below presents impaired loans in the Corporation s Commercial loan portfolio segment at and for the years ended   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Certain impaired commercial loans do not have a related allowance as the valuation of these impaired loans exceeded the carrying value, which is net of previously recorded charge-offs. 

(1)   
    Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible.  
               (2)   
    Includes U.S. small business commercial renegotiated TDR loans and related allowance. 
     n/a = not applicable 

The table below presents the   December 31, 2012 and 2011   unpaid principal balance and carrying value of commercial loans that were modified as TDRs during   2012   and   2011  , and net charge-offs that were recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. 

(1)   
    U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans. 
     A commercial TDR is generally deemed to be in payment default when the loan is 90 days or more past due, including delinquencies that were not resolved as part of the modification. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are deemed to be in payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses the second of two consecutive payments. Payment defaults are one of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows, along with observable market prices or fair value of collateral when measuring the allowance for loan losses. TDRs that were in payment default at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   had a carrying value of   $130 million   and   $164 million   for U.S. commercial,   $455 million   and   $446 million   for commercial real estate and   $18 million   and   $68 million   for U.S. small business commercial. 

Purchased Credit-impaired Loans 
  The table below shows activity for the accretable yield on Countrywide consumer PCI loans. Reclassifications from nonaccretable difference primarily result when there is a change in expected cash flows due to various factors, including changes in interest rates on variable-rate loans and prepayment assumptions. Changes in the prepayment assumption affect the expected remaining life of the portfolio which results in a change to the amount of future interest cash flows. 

See   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   for further information on PCI loans and   Note 6   Allowance for Credit Losses   for the carrying value and valuation allowance for Countrywide PCI loans. 
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  The Corporation had LHFS of   $19.4 billion   and   $13.8 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of LHFS were   $55.9 billion  ,   $147.5 billion   and   $281.7 billion   for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. Amounts used for originations and purchases of LHFS were   $59.8 billion  ,   $118.2 billion   and   $263.0 billion   for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively.  

NOTE 6   Allowance for Credit Losses 
  The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . 

In   2012  , for the PCI loan portfolio, the Corporation recorded a   benefit   of   $103 million   in provision for credit losses with a corresponding decrease in the valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses. This compared to   $2.2 billion   in provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase in the valuation allowance in both   2011   and   2010  . In   2012  , there were   $2.8 billion   of write-offs in the Countrywide home equity PCI loan portfolio primarily related to the National Mortgage Settlement with a corresponding decrease in the PCI valuation allowance. These write-offs had no impact on the provision for credit losses as these loans were fully reserved. The valuation allowance associated with the PCI loan portfolio was   $5.5 billion  ,  

$8.5 billion   and   $6.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. 
  The  other  amount under allowance for loan and lease losses primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, and foreign currency translation adjustments. The   2011   amount includes a   $449 million   reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses related to Canadian consumer card loans that were transferred to LHFS.  
  The  other  amount under the reserve for unfunded lending commitments for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   primarily represents accretion of the Merrill Lynch purchase accounting adjustment and the impact of funding previously unfunded positions. 

The table below presents the allowance and the carrying value of outstanding loans and leases by portfolio segment at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

(1)   
    Impaired loans include nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs, including both commercial and consumer TDRs. Impaired loans exclude nonperforming consumer loans unless they are TDRs, and all consumer and commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
                (3)   
    Amounts are presented gross of the allowance for loan and lease losses. 
      n/a = not applicable 

NOTE 7   Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities 
  The Corporation utilizes VIEs in the ordinary course of business to support its own and its customers  financing and investing needs. The Corporation routinely securitizes loans and debt securities using VIEs as a source of funding for the Corporation and as a means of transferring the economic risk of the loans or debt securities to third parties. The assets are transferred into a trust or other securitization vehicle such that the assets are legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation and are not available to satisfy its obligations. These assets can only be used to settle obligations of the trust or other securitization vehicle. The Corporation also administers, structures or invests in other VIEs including CDOs, investment vehicles and other entities. For additional information on the Corporation s utilization of VIEs, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
  The tables within this Note present the assets and liabilities of consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , in situations where the Corporation has continuing involvement with transferred assets or if the Corporation otherwise has a variable interest in the VIE. The tables also present the Corporation s maximum loss exposure at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   resulting from its involvement with consolidated VIEs and unconsolidated VIEs in which the Corporation holds a variable interest. The Corporation s maximum loss exposure is based on the unlikely event that all of the assets in the VIEs become worthless and incorporates not only potential losses associated with assets recorded on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet but also potential losses associated with off-balance sheet commitments such as unfunded liquidity commitments and other contractual arrangements. The Corporation s maximum loss exposure does not include losses previously recognized through write-downs of assets. 
  The Corporation invests in ABS issued by third-party VIEs with which it has no other form of involvement. These securities are included in   Note 2   Trading Account Assets and Liabilities   and   Note 4   Securities  .   In addition, the Corporation uses VIEs such as trust preferred securities trusts in connection with its funding activities.  

For additional information, see   Note 12   Long-term Debt  . The Corporation also uses VIEs in the form of synthetic securitization vehicles to mitigate a portion of the credit risk on its residential mortgage loan portfolio, as described in   Note 5   Outstanding Loans and Leases  . The Corporation uses VIEs, such as cash funds managed within   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  , to provide investment opportunities for clients. These VIEs, which are not consolidated by the Corporation, are not included in the tables within this Note. 
  Except as described below, the Corporation did not provide financial support to consolidated or unconsolidated VIEs during   2012   or   2011   that it was not previously contractually required to provide, nor does it intend to do so. 
  Mortgage-related Securitizations 
  First-lien Mortgages 
  As part of its mortgage banking activities, the Corporation securitizes a portion of the first-lien residential mortgage loans it originates or purchases from third parties, generally in the form of MBS guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises, FNMA and FHLMC (collectively the GSEs), or GNMA in the case of FHA-insured and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed mortgage loans. Securitization usually occurs in conjunction with or shortly after loan closing or purchase. In addition, the Corporation may, from time to time, securitize commercial mortgages it originates or purchases from other entities. The Corporation typically services the loans it securitizes. Further, the Corporation may retain beneficial interests in the securitization trusts including senior and subordinate securities and equity tranches issued by the trusts. Except as described below and in   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  , the Corporation does not provide guarantees or recourse to the securitization trusts other than standard representations and warranties. 
  The table below summarizes select information related to first-lien mortgage securitizations for   2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    The Corporation sells residential mortgage loans to GSEs in the normal course of business and receives MBS in exchange which may then be sold into the market to third-party investors for cash proceeds. 
               (2)   
    Substantially all of the first-lien residential mortgage loans securitized are initially classified as LHFS and accounted for under the fair value option. As such, gains are recognized on these LHFS prior to securitization. During   2012   and   2011  , the Corporation recognized   $1.9 billion   and   $2.9 billion   of gains on these LHFS, net of hedges. 
       In addition to cash proceeds as reported in the table above, the Corporation received securities with an initial fair value of   $28 million   and   $545 million   in connection with first-lien mortgage securitizations, principally residential agency securitizations, in   2012   and   2011  . All of these securities were initially classified as Level 2 assets within the fair value hierarchy. During   2012   and   2011  , there were no changes to the initial classification. 
  The Corporation recognizes consumer MSRs from the sale or securitization of first-lien mortgage loans. Servicing fee and ancillary fee income on consumer mortgage loans serviced, including securitizations where the Corporation has continuing  

involvement, were   $4.7 billion   and   $5.8 billion   in   2012   and   2011  . Servicing advances on consumer mortgage loans, including securitizations where the Corporation has continuing involvement, were   $23.2 billion   and   $26.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The Corporation may have the option to repurchase delinquent loans out of securitization trusts, which reduces the amount of servicing advances it is required to make. During   2012   and   2011  ,   $9.2 billion   and   $9.0 billion   of loans were repurchased from first-lien securitization trusts as a result of loan delinquencies or in order to perform modifications. The majority of these loans repurchased were FHA-insured mortgages collateralizing GNMA  

securities. In addition, the Corporation has retained commercial MSRs from the sale or securitization of commercial mortgage loans. Servicing advances on commercial mortgage loans, including securitizations where the Corporation has continuing involvement, were   $186 million   and   $152 million   at   December 31,  

2012   and   2011  . For additional information on MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights  .  
  The table below summarizes select information related to first-lien mortgage securitization trusts in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Maximum loss exposure excludes the liability for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees and also excludes servicing advances and MSRs. For more information, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     and   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
               (2)   
    As a holder of these securities, the Corporation receives scheduled principal and interest payments. During   2012   and   2011  , there were no OTTI losses recorded on those securities classified as AFS debt securities. 
               (3)   
    Not included in the table above are all other assets of   $12.1 billion   and   $11.0 billion  , representing the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans eligible for repurchase from unconsolidated residential mortgage securitization vehicles, principally guaranteed by GNMA, and all other liabilities of   $12.1 billion   and   $11.0 billion  , representing the principal amount that would be payable to the securitization vehicles if the Corporation were to exercise the repurchase option, at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 
               (4)   
    Principal balance outstanding includes loans the Corporation transferred with which the Corporation has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loans. 
       During   2012  , the Corporation deconsolidated several prime residential mortgage trusts with total assets of   $1.2 billion   following the transfer of servicing to a third party. 
  As a result of a settlement agreement with Assured Guaranty Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Assured Guaranty) in 2011, the Corporation entered into a loss-sharing reinsurance arrangement involving   21   first-lien RMBS trusts. This obligation is a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the trusts. To the extent that the Corporation services all or a majority of the loans  

in any of the   21   trusts, the Corporation is the primary beneficiary. At   December 31, 2012  ,   four   of these trusts with total assets of   $900 million   were consolidated. Assets and liabilities of the consolidated trusts and the Corporation s maximum loss exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated trusts are included in the table above as non-agency prime and subprime trusts. For additional information, see   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  . 

Home Equity Loans 
  The Corporation retains interests in home equity securitization trusts to which it transferred home equity loans. These retained interests include senior and subordinate securities and residual interests. In addition, the Corporation may be obligated to provide subordinate funding to the trusts during a rapid amortization event. The Corporation also services the loans in the trusts. Except as described below and in   Note 8   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  , the Corporation does not  

provide guarantees or recourse to the securitization trusts other than standard representations and warranties. There were no securitizations of home equity loans during   2012   and   2011  . All of the home equity trusts have entered the rapid amortization phase, and accordingly, there were   no   collections reinvested in revolving period securitizations in   2012   and   2011  . 
  The table below summarizes select information related to home equity loan securitization trusts in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    For unconsolidated VIEs, the maximum loss exposure includes outstanding trust certificates issued by trusts in rapid amortization, net of recorded reserves, and excludes the liability for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees. 
       Included in the table above are consolidated and unconsolidated home equity loan securitizations that have entered a rapid amortization period and for which the Corporation is obligated to provide subordinated funding. During this period, cash payments from borrowers are accumulated to repay outstanding debt securities and the Corporation continues to make advances to borrowers when they draw on their lines of credit. The Corporation then transfers the newly generated receivables into the securitization vehicles and is reimbursed only after other parties in the securitization have received all of the cash flows to which they are entitled. If loan losses requiring draws on monoline insurers  policies, which protect the bondholders in the securitization, exceed a certain level, the Corporation may not receive reimbursement for all of the funds advanced to borrowers, as the senior bondholders and the monoline insurers have priority for repayment. The Corporation evaluates each of these securitizations for potential losses due to non-recoverable advances by estimating the amount and timing of future losses on the underlying loans, the excess spread available to cover such losses and potential cash flow shortfalls during rapid amortization. This evaluation, which includes the number of loans still in revolving status, the amount of available credit and when those loans will lose revolving status, is also used to determine whether the Corporation has a variable interest that is more than insignificant and must consolidate the trust. A maximum funding obligation  

attributable to rapid amortization cannot be calculated as a home equity borrower has the ability to pay down and re-draw balances. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , home equity loan securitizations in rapid amortization for which the Corporation has a subordinated funding obligation, including both consolidated and unconsolidated trusts, had   $9.0 billion   and   $10.7 billion   of trust certificates outstanding. This amount is significantly greater than the amount the Corporation expects to fund. The charges that will ultimately be recorded as a result of the rapid amortization events depend on the undrawn available credit on the home equity lines, which totaled   $196 million   and   $460 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , as well as performance of the loans, the amount of subsequent draws and the timing of related cash flows. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the reserve for losses on expected future draw obligations on the home equity loan securitizations in rapid amortization for which the Corporation has a subordinated funding obligation was   $51 million   and   $69 million  . 
  The Corporation has consumer MSRs from the sale or securitization of home equity loans. The Corporation recorded   $59 million   and   $62 million   of servicing fee income related to home equity loan securitizations during   2012   and   2011  . The Corporation repurchased   $87 million   and   $28 million   of loans from home equity securitization trusts in order to perform modifications during   2012   and   2011  . 

Credit Card Securitizations 
  The Corporation securitizes originated and purchased credit card loans. The Corporation s continuing involvement with the securitization trusts includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undivided interest (seller s interest) in the receivables, and holding certain retained interests including senior and subordinate securities, discount receivables, subordinate interests in accrued  

interest and fees on the securitized receivables, and cash reserve accounts. The seller s interest in the trusts, which is pari passu to the investors  interest, and the discount receivables are classified in loans and leases. 
  The table below summarizes select information related to consolidated credit card securitization trusts in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(2)   
    At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , all other assets included restricted cash and short-term investment accounts and unbilled accrued interest and fees. 
       The Corporation holds subordinate securities with a notional principal amount of   $10.1 billion   and   $11.9 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   and a stated interest rate of   zero percent   issued by certain credit card securitization trusts. In addition, during 2010 and 2009, the Corporation elected to designate a specified percentage of new receivables transferred to the trusts as  discount receivables  such that principal collections thereon are added to finance charges which increases the yield in the trust. Through the designation of newly transferred receivables as discount receivables, the Corporation subordinated  

a portion of its seller s interest to the investors  interest. These actions were taken to address the decline in the excess spread of the U.S. and U.K. credit card securitization trusts. 
  During   2012  , the Corporation transferred   $553 million   of credit card receivables to a third-party sponsored securitization vehicle. The Corporation no longer services the credit card receivables and does not consolidate the vehicle. At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation held a senior interest of   $309 million   in these receivables, classified as loans on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet, that is not included in the table above. 

Other Asset-backed Securitizations 
  Other asset-backed securitizations include resecuritization trusts, municipal bond trusts, and automobile and other securitization trusts. The table below summarizes select information related to other asset-backed securitizations in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    As a holder of these securities, the Corporation receives scheduled principal and interest payments. During   2012   and   2011  , there were no OTTI losses recorded on those securities classified as AFS debt securities. 
               (2)   
    The retained senior and subordinate securities were valued using quoted market prices or observable market inputs (Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). 
               (3)   
    The retained residual interests are carried at fair value which was derived using model valuations (Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). 
               (4)   
    Total assets include loans the Corporation transferred with which the Corporation has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loan. 
       Resecuritization Trusts 
  The Corporation transfers existing securities, typically MBS, into resecuritization vehicles at the request of customers seeking securities with specific characteristics. The Corporation may also resecuritize securities within its investment portfolio for purposes of improving liquidity and capital, and managing credit or interest rate risk. Generally, there are no significant ongoing activities performed in a resecuritization trust and no single investor has the unilateral ability to liquidate the trust. 
  The Corporation resecuritized   $45.6 billion   of securities in   2012   and   $33.6 billion   in   2011  . All of the securities transferred into resecuritization vehicles during   2012   were classified as trading account assets. As such, changes in fair value were recorded in trading account profits prior to the resecuritization and   no   gain or loss on sale was recorded. Gains on sale of   $909 million   were recorded in   2011  . The Corporation consolidates a resecuritization trust if it has sole discretion over the design of the trust, including the identification of securities to be transferred in and the structure of securities to be issued, and also retains a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the trust. If one or a limited number of third-party investors share responsibility for the design of the trust and purchase a significant  

portion of securities, including subordinate securities issued by non-agency trusts, the Corporation does not consolidate the trust. 
  Municipal Bond Trusts 
  The Corporation administers municipal bond trusts that hold highly-rated, long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds. A majority of the bonds are rated AAA or AA and some benefit from insurance provided by third parties. The trusts obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that reprice on a weekly or other basis to third-party investors. The Corporation may serve as remarketing agent and/or liquidity provider for the trusts. The floating-rate investors have the right to tender the certificates at specified dates, often with as little as seven days  notice. Should the Corporation be unable to remarket the tendered certificates, it is generally obligated to purchase them at par under standby liquidity facilities unless the bond s credit rating has declined below investment grade or there has been an event of default or bankruptcy of the issuer and insurer. 
  The Corporation also provides credit enhancement to investors in certain municipal bond trusts whereby the Corporation guarantees the payment of interest and principal on floating-rate certificates issued by these trusts in the event of default by the  

issuer of the underlying municipal bond. If a customer holds the residual interest in a trust, that customer typically has the unilateral ability to liquidate the trust at any time, while the Corporation typically has the ability to trigger the liquidation of that trust if the market value of the bonds held in the trust declines below a specified threshold. This arrangement is designed to limit market losses to an amount that is less than the customer s residual interest, effectively preventing the Corporation from absorbing losses incurred on assets held within that trust. 
  During   2012   and   2011  , the Corporation was the transferor of assets into unconsolidated municipal bond trusts and received cash proceeds from new securitizations of   $879 million   and   $733 million  . At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the principal balance outstanding for unconsolidated municipal bond securitization trusts for which the Corporation was transferor was   $1.4 billion   and   $2.5 billion  . 
  The Corporation s liquidity commitments to unconsolidated municipal bond trusts, including those for which the Corporation was transferor, totaled   $2.8 billion   and   $3.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The weighted-average remaining life of bonds held in the trusts at   December 31, 2012   was   8.4   years. There were no material write-downs or downgrades of assets or issuers during   2012   and   2011  . 
  Automobile and Other Securitization Trusts 
  The Corporation transfers automobile and other loans into securitization trusts, typically to improve liquidity or manage credit risk. During   2012  , the Corporation transferred automobile loans into an unconsolidated automobile trust, receiving cash proceeds of   $2.4 billion   and recording a loss on sale of   $7 million  . At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation serviced assets or otherwise  

had continuing involvement with automobile and other securitization trusts with outstanding balances of   $4.7 billion  , including trusts collateralized by automobile loans of   $3.5 billion  , student loans of   $897 million   and other loans of   $290 million  . At   December 31, 2011  , the Corporation serviced assets or otherwise had continuing involvement with automobile and other securitization trusts with outstanding balances of   $5.8 billion  , including trusts collateralized by automobile loans of   $3.9 billion  , student loans of   $1.2 billion   and other loans of   $668 million  . 
  Collateralized Debt Obligation Vehicles 
  CDO vehicles hold diversified pools of fixed-income securities, typically corporate debt or ABS, which they fund by issuing multiple tranches of debt and equity securities. Synthetic CDOs enter into a portfolio of CDS to synthetically create exposure to fixed-income securities. CLOs, which are a subset of CDOs, hold pools of loans, typically corporate loans or commercial mortgages. CDOs are typically managed by third-party portfolio managers. The Corporation transfers assets to these CDOs, holds securities issued by the CDOs and may be a derivative counterparty to the CDOs, including a CDS counterparty for synthetic CDOs. The Corporation has also entered into total return swaps with certain CDOs whereby the Corporation absorbs the economic returns generated by specified assets held by the CDO. The Corporation receives fees for structuring CDOs and providing liquidity support for super senior tranches of securities issued by certain CDOs. No third parties provide a significant amount of similar commitments to these CDOs. 
  The table below summarizes select information related to CDO vehicles in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

The Corporation s maximum loss exposure of   $3.6 billion   at   December 31, 2012   included   $2.2 billion   of exposure to CDO financing facilities,   $138 million   of super senior CDO exposure and   $1.3 billion   of other non-super senior exposure. This exposure is calculated on a gross basis and does not reflect any benefit from insurance purchased from third parties. The CDO financing facilities, which are consolidated, obtain funding from third parties for CDO positions which are principally classified in trading account assets on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The CDO financing facilities  long-term debt at   December 31, 2012   totaled   $2.8 billion  , all of which has recourse to the general credit of the Corporation. For unconsolidated CDO vehicles in the table above, the Corporation s maximum loss exposure is significantly less than  

the total assets of the VIEs because the Corporation typically has exposure to only a portion of the total assets. 
  At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had   $1.5 billion   of aggregate liquidity exposure to CDOs. This amount includes   $108 million   of commitments to CDOs to provide funding for super senior exposures and   $1.4 billion   notional amount of derivative contracts with unconsolidated VIEs, principally CDO vehicles, which hold non-super senior CDO debt securities or other debt securities on the Corporation s behalf. See   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies   for additional information. The Corporation s liquidity exposure to CDOs at   December 31, 2012   is included in the table above to the extent that the Corporation sponsored the CDO vehicle or the liquidity exposure is more than insignificant  

compared to total assets of the CDO vehicle. Liquidity exposure included in the table is reported net of previously recorded losses. 
  Customer Vehicles 
  Customer vehicles include credit-linked and equity-linked note vehicles, repackaging vehicles and asset acquisition vehicles,  

which are typically created on behalf of customers who wish to obtain market or credit exposure to a specific company or financial instrument. 
  The table below summarizes select information related to customer vehicles in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

Credit-linked and equity-linked note vehicles issue notes which pay a return that is linked to the credit or equity risk of a specified company or debt instrument. The vehicles purchase high-grade assets as collateral and enter into CDS or equity derivatives to synthetically create the credit or equity risk to pay the specified return on the notes. The Corporation is typically the counterparty for some or all of the credit and equity derivatives and, to a lesser extent, it may invest in securities issued by the vehicles. The Corporation may also enter into interest rate or foreign currency derivatives with the vehicles. The Corporation also had other liquidity commitments, including written put options and collateral value guarantees, with unconsolidated credit-linked and equity-linked note vehicles of   $742 million   and   $824 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 
  Repackaging vehicles issue notes that are designed to incorporate risk characteristics desired by customers. The vehicles hold debt instruments such as corporate bonds, convertible bonds or ABS with the desired credit risk profile. The Corporation enters into derivatives with the vehicles to change the interest rate or foreign currency profile of the debt instruments. If a vehicle holds convertible bonds and the Corporation retains the conversion option, the Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and consolidates the vehicle. 
  Asset acquisition vehicles acquire financial instruments, typically loans, at the direction of a single customer and obtain  

funding through the issuance of structured liabilities to the Corporation. At the time the vehicle acquires an asset, the Corporation enters into total return swaps with the customer such that the economic returns of the asset are passed through to the customer. The Corporation is exposed to counterparty credit risk if the asset declines in value and the customer defaults on its obligation to the Corporation under the total return swaps. The Corporation s risk may be mitigated by collateral or other arrangements. The Corporation consolidates these vehicles because it has the power to manage the assets in the vehicles and holds all of the structured liabilities issued by the vehicles. 
  The Corporation s maximum loss exposure from customer vehicles includes the notional amount of credit or equity derivatives to which the Corporation is a counterparty, net of losses previously recorded, and the Corporation s investment, if any, in securities issued by the vehicles. It has not been reduced to reflect the benefit of offsetting swaps with the customers or collateral arrangements. 
  Other Variable Interest Entities 
  Other consolidated VIEs primarily include investment vehicles and leveraged lease trusts. Other unconsolidated VIEs primarily include investment vehicles and real estate vehicles. 

The table below summarizes select information related to other VIEs in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

Investment Vehicles 
  The Corporation sponsors, invests in or provides financing to a variety of investment vehicles that hold loans, real estate, debt securities or other financial instruments and are designed to provide the desired investment profile to investors or the Corporation. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation s consolidated investment vehicles had total assets of   $1.3 billion   and   $2.6 billion  . The Corporation also held investments in unconsolidated vehicles with total assets of   $3.0 billion   and   $5.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The Corporation s maximum loss exposure associated with both consolidated and unconsolidated investment vehicles totaled   $2.1 billion   and   $4.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   comprised primarily of on-balance sheet assets less non-recourse liabilities. 
  Leveraged Lease Trusts 
  The Corporation s net investment in consolidated leveraged lease trusts totaled   $4.4 billion   and   $4.8 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The trusts hold long-lived equipment such as rail cars, power generation and distribution equipment, and commercial aircraft. The Corporation structures the trusts and holds a significant residual interest. The net investment represents the Corporation s maximum loss exposure to the trusts in the unlikely event that the leveraged lease investments become worthless. Debt issued by the leveraged lease trusts is non-recourse to the Corporation. The Corporation has no liquidity exposure to these leveraged lease trusts. 
  Real Estate Vehicles 
  The Corporation held investments in unconsolidated real estate vehicles of   $5.4 billion   at both   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , which primarily consist of investments in unconsolidated limited partnerships that finance the construction and rehabilitation of affordable rental housing and commercial real estate. An unrelated third party is typically the general partner and has control over the significant activities of the partnership. The Corporation earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits allocated to the  

real estate projects. The Corporation s risk of loss is mitigated by policies requiring that the project qualify for the expected tax credits prior to making its investment. The Corporation may from time to time be asked to invest additional amounts to support a troubled project. Such additional investments have not been and are not expected to be significant. 
  Other Asset-backed Financing Arrangements 
  The Corporation transferred pools of securities to certain independent third parties and provided financing for up to   75 percent   of the purchase price under asset-backed financing arrangements. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation s maximum loss exposure under these financing arrangements was   $2.5 billion   and   $4.7 billion  , substantially all of which were classified as loans on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. All principal and interest payments have been received when due in accordance with their contractual terms. These arrangements are not included in the Other VIEs table because the purchasers are not VIEs. 
    NOTE 8     Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees 
  Background 
  The Corporation securitizes first-lien residential mortgage loans generally in the form of MBS guaranteed by the GSEs or by GNMA in the case of FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed and Rural Housing Service-guaranteed mortgage loans. In addition, in prior years, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations (in certain of these securitizations, monolines or financial guarantee providers insured all or some of the securities) or in the form of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, the Corporation or certain of its subsidiaries or legacy companies make or have made various representations and warranties. These representations and warranties, as set forth in the agreements,  

related to, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, the process used to select the loan for inclusion in a transaction, the loan s compliance with any applicable loan criteria, including underwriting standards, and the loan s compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws. Breaches of these representations and warranties may result in the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans or to otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to the GSEs, HUD with respect to FHA-insured loans, VA, whole-loan investors, securitization trusts, monoline insurers or other financial guarantors (collectively, repurchases). In all such cases, the Corporation would be exposed to any credit loss on the repurchased mortgage loans after accounting for any mortgage insurance (MI) or mortgage guarantee payments that it may receive. 
  Subject to the requirements and limitations of the applicable sales and securitization agreements, these representations and warranties can be enforced by the GSEs, HUD, VA, the whole-loan investor, the securitization trustee or others as governed by the applicable agreement or, in certain first-lien and home equity securitizations where monoline insurers or other financial guarantee providers have insured all or some of the securities issued, by the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor, where the contract so provides. In the case of loans sold to parties other than the GSEs or GNMA, the contractual liability to repurchase typically arises only if there is a breach of the representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interest of the investor, or investors, or of the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor (as applicable) in the loan. Contracts with the GSEs do not contain equivalent language, while GNMA generally limits repurchases to loans that are not insured or guaranteed as required. The Corporation believes that the longer a loan performs prior to default, the less likely it is that an alleged underwriting breach of representations and warranties would have a material impact on the loan s performance. Historically, most demands for repurchase have occurred within the first several years after origination, generally after a loan has defaulted. However, the time horizon in which repurchase claims are typically brought has lengthened primarily due to a significant increase in GSE claims related to loans where the borrower made at least   25   payments and to loans that had defaulted more than   18   months prior to the claim. 
  The Corporation s credit loss would be reduced by any recourse it may have to organizations (e.g., correspondents) that, in turn, had sold such loans to the Corporation based upon its agreements with these organizations. When a loan is originated by a correspondent or other third party, the Corporation typically has the right to seek a recovery of related repurchase losses from that originator. Many of the correspondent originators of loans in   2004   through   2008   are no longer in business, or are in a weakened condition, and the Corporation s ability to recover on valid claims is therefore impacted, or eliminated accordingly. In the event a loan is originated and underwritten by a correspondent who obtains FHA insurance, even if they are no longer in business, any breach of FHA guidelines is the direct obligation of the correspondent, not the Corporation. Generally the volume of unresolved repurchase claims from the FHA and VA for loans in GNMA-guaranteed securities is not significant because the requests are limited in number and are typically resolved quickly. At   December 31, 2012  , approximately   26 percent   of the outstanding repurchase claims relate to loans purchased from correspondents or other parties  

compared to approximately   28 percent   at   December 31, 2011  . During   2012  , the Corporation continued to recover repurchase losses from correspondents and other parties; however, the actual recovery rate may vary from period to period based upon the underlying mix of correspondents and other parties. 
  The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss is based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors and assumptions, including those discussed under Liability for Representations and Warranties and Corporate Guarantees in this Note, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate of the liability and could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation s results of operations for any particular period. Given that these factors vary by counterparty, the Corporation analyzes representations and warranties obligations based on the specific counterparty, or type of counterparty, with whom the sale was made.  
  Settlement Actions 
  The Corporation has vigorously contested any request for repurchase when it concludes that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist and will continue to do so in the future. However, in an effort to resolve these legacy mortgage-related issues, the Corporation has reached bulk settlements, or agreements for bulk settlements, including settlement amounts which have been material, with counterparties in lieu of a loan-by-loan review process. The Corporation may reach other settlements in the future if opportunities arise on terms it believes to be advantageous. However, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will reach future settlements or, if it does, that the terms of past settlements can be relied upon to predict the terms of future settlements. The following provides a summary of the larger bulk settlement actions during the past few years. 
  Fannie Mae Settlement 
  On   January 6, 2013  , the Corporation entered into an agreement with FNMA to resolve substantially all outstanding and potential repurchase and certain other claims relating to the origination, sale and delivery of residential mortgage loans originated and sold directly to FNMA from   January 1, 2000   through   December 31, 2008   by entities related to legacy Countrywide and BANA. 
  This agreement covers loans with an aggregate original principal balance of approximately   $1.4 trillion   and an aggregate outstanding principal balance of approximately   $300 billion  . Unresolved repurchase claims submitted by FNMA for alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties with respect to these loans totaled   $12.2 billion   of unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2012  . This agreement extinguished substantially all of those unresolved repurchase claims, as well as any future representations and warranties repurchase claims associated with such loans, subject to certain exceptions which the Corporation does not expect to be material. 
  In January 2013, the Corporation made a cash payment to FNMA of   $3.6 billion   and also repurchased for   $6.6 billion   certain residential mortgage loans that had previously been sold to FNMA, which the Corporation has valued at less than the purchase price.  
  This agreement also clarified the parties  obligations with respect to MI including establishing timeframes for certain payments and other actions, setting parameters for potential bulk settlements and providing for cooperation in future dealings with  

mortgage insurers. For additional information, see Mortgage Insurance Rescission Notices in this Note. 
  In addition, pursuant to a separate agreement, the Corporation settled substantially all of FNMA s outstanding and future claims for compensatory fees arising out of past foreclosure delays. 
  Collectively, these agreements are the FNMA Settlement. 
  Monoline Settlements 
  Syncora Settlement 
  On July 17, 2012, the Corporation entered into a settlement with a monoline insurer, Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Syncora Holdings, Ltd. (Syncora), to resolve all of Syncora s outstanding and potential claims related to alleged representations and warranties breaches involving   eight   first- and   six   second-lien private-label securitization trusts where it provided financial guarantee insurance. The settlement covers private-label securitization trusts that had an original principal balance of first-lien mortgages of approximately   $9.6 billion   and second-lien mortgages of approximately   $7.7 billion  . The settlement provided for a cash payment of   $375 million   to Syncora and other transactions to terminate certain other relationships among the parties. 
  Settlement with Assured Guaranty 
  On   April 14, 2011  , the Corporation, including its legacy Countrywide affiliates, entered into a settlement with Assured Guaranty to resolve all of Assured Guaranty s outstanding and potential repurchase claims related to alleged representations and warranties breaches involving   21   first- and   eight   second-lien RMBS trusts where Assured Guaranty provided financial guarantee insurance. The settlement resolves historical loan servicing issues and other potential liabilities with respect to those trusts. The settlement covers RMBS trusts that had an original principal balance of approximately   $35.8 billion   and total unpaid principal balance of approximately   $20.2 billion   as of April 14, 2011. The settlement provided for cash payments totaling approximately   $1.1 billion   to Assured Guaranty, a loss-sharing reinsurance arrangement with an expected value of approximately   $470 million   at the time of the settlement and other terms, including termination of certain derivative contracts. As a result of the settlement, the Corporation recorded consumer loans and the related trust debt on its Consolidated Balance Sheet due to the establishment of reinsurance contracts at the time of the settlement. The amount of these consumer loans and the related trust debt was   $900 million   and   $2.2 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  .  
  Settlement with the Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee 
  On   June 28, 2011  , the Corporation, BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (BAC HLS, which was subsequently merged with and into BANA in July 2011), and its legacy Countrywide affiliates entered into a settlement agreement with Bank of New York Mellon (BNY Mellon) as trustee (the Trustee), to resolve all outstanding and potential claims related to alleged representations and warranties breaches (including repurchase claims), substantially all historical loan servicing claims and certain other historical claims with respect to   525   legacy Countrywide first-lien and   five   second-lien non-GSE residential mortgage-backed securitization trusts (the Covered Trusts) containing loans principally originated between   2004   and   2008   for which BNY Mellon acts as trustee or indenture trustee (BNY Mellon Settlement). The Covered Trusts had an original  

principal balance of approximately   $424 billion  , of which   $409 billion   was originated between   2004   and   2008  , and total outstanding principal and unpaid principal balance of loans that had defaulted (collectively unpaid principal balance) of approximately   $220 billion   at   June 28, 2011  , of which   $217 billion   was originated between   2004   and   2008  . The BNY Mellon Settlement is supported by a group of   22   institutional investors (the Investor Group) and is subject to final court approval and certain other conditions. 
  The BNY Mellon Settlement provides for a cash payment of   $8.5 billion   (the Settlement Payment) to the Trustee for distribution to the Covered Trusts after final court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement. In addition to the Settlement Payment, the Corporation is obligated to pay attorneys  fees and costs to the Investor Group s counsel as well as all fees and expenses incurred by the Trustee related to obtaining final court approval of the BNY Mellon Settlement and certain tax rulings, which are currently estimated at   $100 million  .  
  The BNY Mellon Settlement does not cover a small number of legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-GSE RMBS transactions with loans originated principally between   2004   and   2008   for various reasons, including for example,   six   legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-GSE RMBS transactions in which BNY Mellon is not the trustee. The BNY Mellon Settlement also does not cover legacy Countrywide-issued second-lien securitization transactions in which a monoline insurer or other financial guarantor provides financial guaranty insurance. In addition, because the settlement is with the Trustee on behalf of the Covered Trusts and releases rights under the governing agreements for the Covered Trusts, the settlement does not release investors  securities law or fraud claims based upon disclosures made in connection with their decision to purchase, sell or hold securities issued by the Covered Trusts. To date, various investors, including certain members of the Investor Group, are pursuing securities law or fraud claims related to one or more of the Covered Trusts. The Corporation is not able to determine whether any additional securities law or fraud claims will be made by investors in the Covered Trusts. For information about mortgage-related securities law or fraud claims, see Litigation and Regulatory Matters in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies  . For those Covered Trusts where a monoline insurer or other financial guarantor has an independent right to assert repurchase claims directly, the BNY Mellon Settlement does not release such insurer s or guarantor s repurchase claims. 
  Under an order entered by the court in connection with the BNY Mellon Settlement, potentially interested persons had the opportunity to give notice of intent to object to the settlement (including on the basis that more information was needed) until August 30, 2011. Approximately   44   groups or entities appeared prior to the deadline;   seven   of those groups or entities have subsequently withdrawn from the proceeding and   one   motion to intervene was denied. Certain of these groups or entities filed notices of intent to object, made motions to intervene, or both filed notices of intent to object and made motions to intervene. The parties filing motions to intervene include the Attorneys General of the states of New York and Delaware, whose motions to intervene were granted. Parties who filed notices stating that they wished to obtain more information about the settlement include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). Bank of America is not a party to the proceeding. 

Certain of the motions to intervene and/or notices of intent to object allege various purported bases for opposition to the settlement, including challenges to the nature of the court proceeding and the lack of an opt-out mechanism, alleged conflicts of interest on the part of the Investor Group and/or the Trustee, the inadequacy of the settlement amount and the method of allocating the settlement amount among the Covered Trusts, while other motions do not make substantive objections but state that they need more information about the settlement. 
  It is not currently possible to predict how many parties who have appeared in the court proceeding will ultimately object to the BNY Mellon Settlement, whether the objections will prevent receipt of final court approval or the ultimate outcome of the court approval process, which can include appeals and could take a substantial period of time. On August 10, 2012, the Court issued an order setting a schedule for discovery and other proceedings, and setting May 30, 2013 as the date for the final court hearing on the settlement to begin. However, there may be changes to the schedule for the final court hearing and any appeals could take a substantial period of time. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict when the court approval process will be completed. 
  If final court approval is not obtained by   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation and legacy Countrywide may withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement, if the Trustee consents. The BNY Mellon Settlement also provides that if Covered Trusts holding loans with an unpaid principal balance exceeding a specified amount are excluded from the final BNY Mellon Settlement, based on investor objections or otherwise, the Corporation and legacy Countrywide have the option to withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement pursuant to the terms of the BNY Mellon Settlement agreement. 
  There can be no assurance that final court approval of the settlement will be obtained, that all conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement will be satisfied or, if certain conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement permitting withdrawal are met, that the Corporation and legacy Countrywide will not withdraw from the settlement. If final court approval is not obtained or if the Corporation and legacy Countrywide withdraw from the BNY Mellon Settlement in accordance with its terms, the Corporation s future representations and warranties losses could be substantially different than existing accruals and the estimated range of possible loss over existing accruals described under   Whole Loan Sales and Private-label Securitizations Experience   on page   219  . 
  2010 Government-sponsored Enterprise Agreements 
  On   December 31, 2010  , the Corporation reached agreements with FHLMC and FNMA, under which the Corporation paid   $2.8 billion   to resolve certain repurchase claims involving first-lien residential mortgage loans sold directly to the GSEs by entities related to legacy Countrywide (the 2010 GSE Agreements). The   agreement   with FHLMC extinguished all outstanding and potential mortgage repurchase and make-whole claims arising out of any alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties related to loans sold directly by legacy Countrywide to FHLMC through   2008  , subject to certain exceptions. The agreement with FNMA substantially resolved the existing pipeline of repurchase claims outstanding as of   September 20, 2010   arising out of alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties related to loans sold directly by legacy Countrywide to FNMA. The 2010 GSE Agreements did not cover outstanding and potential mortgage repurchase claims arising out of any alleged breaches of selling representations and warranties related to legacy Bank of America first-lien residential mortgage loans sold directly to the GSEs or  

other loans sold directly to the GSEs other than described above, loan servicing obligations, other contractual obligations or loans contained in private-label securitizations.  
  Unresolved Repurchase Claims 
  Unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by counterparties, typically the outstanding principal balance or the unpaid principal balance at the time of default. In the case of first-lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly greater than the expected loss amount due to the benefit of collateral and, in some cases, MI or mortgage guarantee payments. Claims received from a counterparty remain outstanding until the underlying loan is repurchased, the claim is rescinded by the counterparty, or the claim is otherwise resolved. When a claim is denied and the Corporation does not receive a response from the counterparty, the claim remains in the unresolved repurchase claims balance until resolution.  
  The table below presents unresolved repurchase claims at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . The unresolved repurchase claims include only claims where the Corporation believes that the counterparty has a basis to submit claims. For additional information, see Whole Loan Sales and Private-label Securitizations Experience in this Note and   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies  . These repurchase claims do not include any repurchase claims related to the BNY Mellon Settlement regarding the Covered Trusts.  

(1)   
    Excludes certain MI rescission notices. However, at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , included   $2.3 billion   and   $1.2 billion   of repurchase requests received from the GSEs that have resulted solely from MI rescission notices. For additional information, see   Mortgage Insurance Rescission Notices   in this Note. 
               (2)   
    At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , unresolved repurchase claims did not include repurchase demands of   $1.6 billion   and   $1.7 billion   where the Corporation believes the claimants have not satisfied the contractual thresholds as noted on page   215  . 
      During   2012  , the Corporation received   $22.4 billion   in new repurchase claims, including   $10.3 billion   submitted by FNMA and covered by the FNMA Settlement,   $2.3 billion   submitted by the GSEs for both legacy Countrywide and legacy Bank of America originations not covered by the 2010 GSE Agreements or the FNMA Settlement,   $8.0 billion   submitted by private-label securitization trustees,   $1.5 billion   from whole-loan investors, primarily third- 

party securitization sponsors, and   $295 million   submitted by monolines. During   2012  ,   $6.6 billion   in claims were resolved, primarily with the GSEs and through the Syncora Settlement. Of the resolved claims,   $4.6 billion   were resolved through rescissions and   $2.0 billion   were resolved through mortgage repurchases and make-whole payments. 
  The notional amount of unresolved GSE repurchase claims totaled   $13.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $6.2 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . As a result of the FNMA Settlement,   $12.2 billion   of GSE repurchase claims outstanding at   December 31, 2012   were resolved in January 2013. For further discussion of the Corporation s experience with the GSEs, see Government-sponsored Enterprises Experience in this Note. 
  The notional amount of unresolved monoline repurchase claims totaled   $2.4 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $3.1 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The decrease in unresolved repurchase claims was driven by resolution of claims through the Syncora Settlement. The Corporation has had limited loan-level repurchase claims experience with monoline insurers due to ongoing litigation. The Corporation has reviewed and declined to repurchase substantially all of the unresolved repurchase claims at   December 31, 2012   based on an assessment of whether a breach exists that materially and adversely affected the insurer s interest in the mortgage loan. Further, in the Corporation s experience, the monolines have been generally unwilling to withdraw repurchase claims, regardless of whether and what evidence was offered to refute a claim. Substantially all of the unresolved monoline claims pertain to second-lien loans and are currently the subject of litigation. For further discussion of the Corporation s practices regarding litigation accruals and range of possible loss for litigation and regulatory matters, which includes the status of its monoline litigation, see Estimated Range of Possible Loss in this Note.  
  The notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims from private-label securitization trustees, third-party securitization sponsors, whole-loan investors and others increased to   $12.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   compared to   $3.3 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The increase in the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims is primarily due to increases in the submission of claims by private-label securitization trustees and a third-party securitization sponsor; the level of detail, support and analysis which impacts overall claim quality and, therefore, claims resolution; and the lack of an established process to resolve disputes related to these claims. The Corporation anticipated an increase in aggregate non-GSE claims at the time of the BNY Mellon Settlement in June 2011, and such increase in aggregate non-GSE claims was taken into consideration in developing the increase in the Corporation s representations and warranties liability at that time. The Corporation expects unresolved repurchase claims related to private-label securitizations to continue to increase as claims continue to be submitted by private-label securitization trustees and third-party securitization sponsors, and there is not an established process for the ultimate resolution of claims on which there is a disagreement. For further discussion of the Corporation s experience with whole loans and private-label securitizations, see Whole Loan Sales and Private-label Securitizations Experience in this Note. 
  In addition to the total unresolved repurchase claims, the Corporation has received repurchase demands from private-label securitization investors and a master servicer where it believes the claimants have not satisfied the contractual thresholds to direct the securitization trustee to take action and/or that these  

demands are otherwise procedurally or substantively invalid. The total amounts outstanding of such demands were   $1.6 billion   and   $1.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . At   December 31, 2011  , the   $1.7 billion   of demands outstanding were related to Covered Trusts in the BNY Mellon Settlement of which   $1.4 billion   were subsequently resolved through the July 2012 dismissal of a lawsuit brought by Walnut Place (11 entities with the common name Walnut Place, including Walnut Place LLC, and Walnut Place II LLC through Walnut Place XI LLC). Additional demands totaling   $1.3 billion   were received during   2012  . The Corporation does not believe that the   $1.6 billion   in demands outstanding at   December 31, 2012   are valid repurchase claims, and therefore it is not possible to predict the resolution with respect to such demands.  
  Mortgage Insurance Rescission Notices 
  In addition to repurchase claims, the Corporation receives notices from mortgage insurance companies of claim denials, cancellations or coverage rescission (collectively, MI rescission notices) and the number of such notices has remained elevated. By way of background, MI compensates lenders or investors for certain losses resulting from borrower default on a mortgage loan. When there is disagreement with the mortgage insurer as to the resolution of a MI rescission notice, meaningful dialogue and negotiation between the mortgage insurance company and the Corporation are generally necessary to reach a resolution on an individual notice. The level of engagement of the mortgage insurance companies varies and ongoing litigation involving some of the mortgage insurance companies over individual and bulk rescissions or claims for rescission limits the ability of the Corporation to engage in constructive dialogue leading to resolution.  
  For loans sold to GSEs or private-label securitization trusts (including those wrapped by the monoline bond insurers), when the Corporation receives a MI rescission notice from a mortgage insurance company, it may give rise to a claim for breach of the applicable representations and warranties from the GSEs or private-label securitization trusts, depending on the governing sales contracts. In those cases where the governing contract contains MI-related representations and warranties, which upon rescission requires the Corporation to repurchase the affected loan or indemnify the investor for the related loss, the Corporation realizes the loss without the benefit of MI. See below for a discussion of the impact of the FNMA Settlement. In addition, mortgage insurance companies have in some cases asserted the ability to curtail MI payments as a result of alleged foreclosure delays, which if successful, would reduce the MI proceeds available to reduce the loss on the loan.  
  At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had approximately   110,000   open MI rescission notices compared to   90,000   at   December 31, 2011  , including   49,000   pertaining principally to first-lien mortgages serviced for others,   11,000   pertaining to loans held-for-investment, and   50,000   pertaining to ongoing litigation for second-lien mortgages. Approximately   27,000   of the open MI rescission notices pertaining to first-lien mortgages serviced for others are related to loans sold to FNMA. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   32 percent   of the MI rescission notices received have been resolved. Of those resolved,   20 percent   were resolved through the Corporation s acceptance of the MI rescission,   58 percent   were resolved through reinstatement of coverage or payment of the claim by the mortgage insurance company, and   22 percent   were resolved on an aggregate basis through settlement, policy  

commutation or similar arrangement. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   68 percent   of the MI rescission notices the Corporation has received have not yet been resolved. Of those not yet resolved,   46 percent   are implicated by ongoing litigation where no loan-level review is currently contemplated nor required to preserve the Corporation s legal rights. In this litigation, the litigating mortgage insurance companies are also seeking bulk rescission of certain policies, separate and apart from loan-by-loan denials or rescissions. The Corporation is in the process of reviewing   37 percent   of the remaining open MI rescission notices, and it has reviewed and is contesting the MI rescission with respect to   63 percent   of these remaining open MI rescission notices. Of the remaining open MI rescission notices,   40 percent   are also the subject of ongoing litigation; although, at present, these MI rescissions are being processed in a manner generally consistent with those not affected by litigation.  
  In addition to the discussion above, the FNMA Settlement resolved significant representations and warranties exposures including unresolved and potential repurchase claims from FNMA resulting solely from MI rescission notices relating to loans covered by the FNMA Settlement. The Corporation s pipeline of unresolved repurchase claims from the GSEs resulting solely from MI rescission notices increased to   $2.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   from   $1.2 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . The FNMA Settlement resolved approximately   $1.9 billion   of such unresolved repurchase claims. In 2011, FNMA issued an announcement requiring servicers to report all MI rescission notices with respect to loans sold to FNMA and confirmed FNMA s view of its position that a mortgage insurance company s issuance of a MI rescission notice in and of itself constitutes a breach of the lender s representations and warranties and permits FNMA to require the lender to repurchase the mortgage loan or promptly remit a make-whole payment covering FNMA s loss even if the lender is contesting the MI rescission notice. The Corporation had informed FNMA that it did not believe that the new policy was valid under its contracts with FNMA. The parties resolved this and other MI-related issues as part of the FNMA Settlement, which clarified the parties  obligations with respect to MI including establishing timeframes for certain payments and other actions, setting parameters for  

potential bulk settlements and providing for cooperation in future dealings with mortgage insurers. As a result, the Corporation will be required to remit to FNMA the amount of certain MI coverage as a result of MI claims rescissions in advance of collection from the mortgage insurance companies and, in certain cases, it may not ultimately collect all such amounts from the mortgage insurance companies. 
  Cash Settlements 
  As presented in the table below, during   2012   and   2011  , the Corporation paid   $1.8 billion   and   $5.2 billion   to resolve   $2.1 billion   and   $6.2 billion   of repurchase claims through repurchase or reimbursement to the investor or securitization trust for losses they incurred, resulting in a loss on the related loans at the time of repurchase or reimbursement of   $847 million   and   $3.5 billion  . Cash paid for loan repurchases includes the unpaid principal balance of the loan plus past due interest. The amount of loss for loan repurchases is reduced by the fair value of the underlying loan collateral. The repurchase of loans and indemnification payments related to first-lien and home equity repurchase claims generally resulted from material breaches of representations and warranties related to the loans  material compliance with the applicable underwriting standards, including borrower misrepresentation, credit exceptions without sufficient compensating factors and non-compliance with underwriting procedures. The actual representations and warranties made in a sales transaction and the resulting repurchase and indemnification activity can vary by transaction or investor. A direct relationship between the type of defect that causes the breach of representations and warranties and the severity of the realized loss has not been observed. Transactions to repurchase or indemnification payments related to first-lien residential mortgages primarily involved the GSEs while transactions to repurchase or indemnification payments for home equity loans primarily involved the monoline insurers. The amounts shown in the table below do not include   $1.8 billion   in payments to settle monoline claims. The table below presents first-lien and home equity loan repurchases and indemnification payments for   2012   and   2011  .  

Liability for Representations and Warranties and Corporate Guarantees 
  The liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related  

provision is included in mortgage banking income (loss). The liability for representations and warranties is established when those obligations are both probable and reasonably estimable. 
  The Corporation s estimated liability at   December 31, 2012   for obligations under representations and warranties given to the  

GSEs and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss is primarily driven by the FNMA Settlement and also considers, and is necessarily dependent on, and limited by, a number of factors, including the Corporation s experience related to actual defaults, projected future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices and other economic conditions. The methodology also considers such factors as the number of payments made by the borrower prior to default as well as certain other assumptions and judgmental factors. See the Estimated Range of Possible Loss section below for a discussion of the representations and warranties liability and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss. 
  The Corporation s estimate of the non-GSE representations and warranties liability and the corresponding range of possible loss considers, among other things, repurchase experience based on the BNY Mellon Settlement, adjusted to reflect differences between the Covered Trusts and the remainder of the population of private-label securitizations, and assumes that the conditions to the BNY Mellon Settlement will be met. Since the non-GSE securitization trusts that were included in the BNY Mellon Settlement differ from those that were not included in the BNY Mellon Settlement, the Corporation adjusted the repurchase experience implied in the settlement in order to determine the estimated non-GSE representations and warranties liability and the corresponding range of possible loss. The judgmental adjustments made include consideration of the differences in the mix of products in the subject securitizations, loan originator, likelihood of claims expected, the differences in the number of payments that the borrower has made prior to default and the sponsor of the securitizations. Where relevant, the Corporation also takes into account more recent experience, such as increased claims and other facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements, as the Corporation believes appropriate. 
  Additional factors that impact the non-GSE representations and warranties liability and the portion of the estimated range of possible loss corresponding to non-GSE representations and warranties exposures include: (1) contractual material adverse effect requirements; (2) the representations and warranties provided; and (3) the requirement to meet certain presentation thresholds. The first factor is based on the Corporation s belief that a non-GSE contractual liability to repurchase a loan generally arises only if the counterparties prove there is a breach of representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interest of the investor or all investors, or of the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor (as applicable), in a securitization trust and, accordingly, the Corporation believes that the repurchase claimants must prove that the alleged representations and warranties breach was the cause of the loss. The second factor is based on the differences in the types of representations and warranties given in non-GSE securitizations from those provided to the GSEs. The Corporation believes the non-GSE securitizations  representations and warranties are less rigorous and actionable than the explicit provisions of comparable agreements with the GSEs without regard to any variations that may have arisen as a result of dealings with the GSEs. The third factor is related to certain presentation thresholds that need to be met in order for any repurchase claim to be asserted on the initiative of investors under the non-GSE agreements. A securitization trustee may investigate or demand repurchase on its own action, and most agreements contain a presentation threshold, for example   25 percent   of the voting rights per trust, that allows investors to declare a servicing event of default under  

certain circumstances or to request certain action, such as requesting loan files, that the trustee may choose to accept and follow, exempt from liability, provided the trustee is acting in good faith. If there is an uncured servicing event of default and the trustee fails to bring suit during a 60-day period, then, under most agreements, investors may file suit. In addition to this, most agreements also allow investors to direct the securitization trustee to investigate loan files or demand the repurchase of loans if security holders hold a specified percentage, for example,   25 percent  , of the voting rights of each tranche of the outstanding securities. Although the Corporation continues to believe that presentation thresholds are a factor in the determination of probable loss, given the BNY Mellon Settlement, the estimated range of possible loss assumes that the presentation threshold can be met for all of the non-GSE securitization transactions. The population of private-label securitizations included in the BNY Mellon Settlement encompasses almost all legacy Countrywide first-lien private-label securitizations including loans originated principally between   2004   and   2008  . For the remainder of the population of private-label securitizations, other claimants have come forward and the Corporation believes it is probable that other claimants in certain types of securitizations may continue to come forward with claims that meet the requirements of the terms of the securitizations.  
  The table below presents a rollforward of the liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees. 

For   2012  , the provision for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees was   $3.9 billion   compared to   $15.6 billion   for   2011  . The provision in   2012   included   $2.5 billion   in provision related to the FNMA Settlement and   $500 million   for obligations to FNMA related to MI rescissions. The provision in   2011   included   $8.6 billion   in provision and other expenses related to the BNY Mellon Settlement to resolve nearly all of the legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-GSE repurchase exposures, and   $7.0 billion   in provision related to other non-GSE, and to a lesser extent, GSE exposures.  
  Estimated Range of Possible Loss 
  The representations and warranties liability represents the Corporation s best estimate of probable incurred losses as of   December 31, 2012  . However, it is reasonably possible that future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the amounts recorded for these exposures. In addition, the Corporation has not recorded any representations and warranties liability for certain potential private-label securitization and whole-loan exposures where it has little to no claim experience. The Corporation currently estimates that the range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to   $4 billion    

over accruals at   December 31, 2012   compared to up to   $5 billion   over accruals at   December 31, 2011   for only non-GSE representations and warranties exposures. The range of possible loss at   December 31, 2012   reflects the impact of the FNMA Settlement and, as a result, addresses principally non-GSE exposures. The reduction in the range of possible loss from   December 31, 2011   is the net impact of, among other changes, updated assumptions and other developments. The estimated range of possible loss related to these representations and warranties exposures does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of assumptions, including those set forth below, that are subject to change. 
  Future provisions and/or ranges of possible loss for representations and warranties may be significantly impacted if actual experiences are different from the Corporation s assumptions in its predictive models, including, without limitation, ultimate resolution of the BNY Mellon Settlement, estimated repurchase rates, economic conditions, estimated home prices, consumer and counterparty behavior, and a variety of other judgmental factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the assumptions underlying the liability for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss could result in significant increases to future provisions and/or the estimated range of possible loss. For example, if courts, in the context of claims brought by private-label securitization trustees, were to disagree with the Corporation s interpretation that the underlying agreements require a claimant to prove that the representations and warranties breach was the cause of the loss, it could significantly impact the estimated range of possible loss. Additionally, if recent court rulings related to monoline litigation, including one related to the Corporation, that have allowed sampling of loan files instead of requiring a loan-by-loan review to determine if a representations and warranties breach has occurred, are followed generally by the courts in future monoline litigation, private-label securitization counterparties may view litigation as a more attractive alternative compared to a loan-by-loan review. Finally, although the Corporation believes that the representations and warranties typically given in non-GSE transactions are less rigorous and actionable than those given in GSE transactions, the Corporation does not have significant experience resolving loan-level claims in non-GSE transactions to measure the impact of these differences on the probability that a loan will be required to be repurchased. 
  The liability for obligations and representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss do not consider any losses related to litigation matters, including litigation brought by monoline insurers, nor do they include any separate foreclosure costs and related costs, assessments and compensatory fees or any other possible losses related to potential claims for breaches of performance of servicing obligations (except as such losses are included as potential costs of the BNY Mellon Settlement), potential securities law or fraud claims or potential indemnity or other claims against the Corporation, including claims related to loans insured by the FHA. The Corporation is not able to reasonably estimate the amount of any possible loss with respect to any such servicing, securities law, fraud or other claims against the Corporation, except to the extent reflected in the aggregate range of possible loss for litigation and regulatory matters disclosed in   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies  ; however, such loss could be material. 

Government-sponsored Enterprises Experience 
  Generally, the Corporation first becomes aware that a GSE is evaluating a particular loan for repurchase when the Corporation receives a request from a GSE to review the underlying loan file (file request). Upon completing its review, the GSE may submit a repurchase claim to the Corporation. As soon as practicable after receiving a repurchase claim from a GSE, the Corporation evaluates the claim and takes appropriate action. Claim disputes are generally handled through loan-level negotiations with the GSEs and the Corporation seeks to resolve the repurchase claim within   90 to 120   days of the receipt of the claim although claims remain open beyond this timeframe. Disputes include reasonableness of stated income, occupancy, undisclosed liabilities, and the validity of MI claim rescissions in the vintages with the highest default rates. 
  The Corporation and its subsidiaries have an established history of working with the GSEs on repurchase claims. In   2012  , the Corporation continued to experience elevated levels of claims from FNMA, including claims on loans on which borrowers have made a significant number of payments (e.g., at least   25   payments) and, to a lesser extent, loans that defaulted more than   18   months prior to the repurchase request. The FNMA Settlement resolved substantially all of the claims with respect to loans originated and sold to FNMA between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2008, as well as substantially all future representations and warranties repurchase claims associated with these loans.  
  Monoline Insurers Experience 
  The Corporation has had limited representations and warranties repurchase claims experience with the monoline insurers, due to ongoing litigation against legacy Countrywide and/or Bank of America. To the extent the Corporation received repurchase claims from the monolines that are properly presented, it generally reviews them on a loan-by-loan basis. Where a breach of representations and warranties given by the Corporation or subsidiaries or legacy companies is confirmed on a given loan, settlement is generally reached as to that loan within   60 to 90   days. 
  For the monolines that have instituted litigation against legacy Countrywide and/or Bank of America, when claims from these counterparties are denied, the Corporation does not indicate its reason for denial as it is not contractually obligated to do so. In the Corporation s experience, the monolines have been generally unwilling to withdraw repurchase claims, regardless of whether and what evidence was offered to refute a claim. When a claim has been denied and there has not been communication with the counterparty for six months, the Corporation views these claims as inactive; however, they remain in the outstanding claims balance until resolution. 
  To the extent there are repurchase claims based on valid identified loan defects and the Corporation has determined that there is a breach of a representation and warranty and that any other requirements for repurchase have been met, a liability for representations and warranties is established. Outside of the standard quality control process that is an integral part of the Corporation s loan origination process, the Corporation does not generally review loan files until a repurchase claim is received, including with respect to monoline exposures. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of those repurchase claims where a valid defect has not been identified or in predicting future claim requests and the related outcome in the case of  

unasserted claims to repurchase loans from the securitization trusts in which these monolines have insured all or some of the related bonds, the Corporation cannot reasonably estimate the eventual outcome through the repurchase process. As a result, a liability for representations and warranties has not been established related to repurchase claims where a valid defect has not been identified, or in the case of any unasserted claims to repurchase loans from the securitization trusts in which such monolines have insured all or some of the related bonds. For additional information related to the monolines, see   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies  . 
  At   December 31, 2012  , for loans originated between   2004   and   2008  , the unpaid principal balance of loans related to unresolved monoline repurchase claims was   $2.4 billion  , substantially all of which the Corporation has reviewed and declined to repurchase based on an assessment of whether a material breach exists. As noted above, a portion of the repurchase claims that are initially denied are ultimately resolved through bulk settlement, repurchase or make-whole payments, after additional dialogue and negotiation with the monoline insurer. At   December 31, 2012  , the unpaid principal balance of loans in these vintages for which the monolines had requested loan files for review but for which no repurchase claim had been received was   $5.3 billion  , excluding loans that had been paid in full or resolved through settlements. Of these file requests,   $4.0 billion   are aged and subject to ongoing litigation. There will likely be additional requests for loan files in the future leading to repurchase claims. Such claims may relate to loans that are currently in securitization trusts or loans that have defaulted and are no longer included in the unpaid principal balance of the loans in the trusts. However, it is unlikely that a repurchase claim will be received for every loan in a securitization or every file requested or that a valid defect exists for every loan repurchase claim. In addition, amounts paid on repurchase claims from a monoline are paid to the securitization trust and are applied in accordance with the terms of the governing securitization documents which may include use by the securitization trust to repay any outstanding monoline advances or reduce future advances from the monolines. To the extent that a monoline has not advanced funds or does not anticipate that it will be required to advance funds to the securitization trust, the likelihood of receiving a repurchase claim from a monoline may be reduced as the monoline would receive limited or no benefit from the payment of repurchase claims. Moreover, some monolines are not currently performing their obligations under the financial guarantee policies they issued which may, in certain circumstances, impact their ability to present repurchase claims, although in those circumstances, investors may be able to bring claims if contractual thresholds are met. 
  Whole Loan Sales and Private-label Securitizations Experience 
  The majority of the repurchase claims that the Corporation has received and resolved outside of those from the GSEs and monolines are from third-party whole-loan investors. The Corporation provided representations and warranties and the whole-loan investors may retain those rights even when the loans were aggregated with other collateral into private-label securitizations sponsored by the whole-loan investors. The Corporation reviews properly presented repurchase claims for these whole loans on a loan-by-loan basis. If, after the Corporation s review, it does not believe a claim is valid, it will deny  

the claim and generally indicate a reason for the denial. When the whole-loan investor agrees with the Corporation s denial of the claim, the whole-loan investor may rescind the claim. When there is disagreement as to the resolution of the claim, meaningful dialogue and negotiation between the parties are generally necessary to reach a resolution on an individual claim. Generally, a whole-loan investor is engaged in the repurchase process and the Corporation and the whole-loan investor reach resolution, either through loan-by-loan negotiation or at times, through a bulk settlement. As of   December 31, 2012  ,   15 percent   of the whole-loan claims that the Corporation initially denied have subsequently been resolved through repurchase or make-whole payments and   44 percent   have been resolved through rescission or repayment in full by the borrower. Although the timeline for resolution varies, once an actionable breach is identified on a given loan, settlement is generally reached as to that loan within   60 to 90   days. When a claim has been denied and the Corporation does not have communication with the counterparty for six months, the Corporation views these claims as inactive; however, they remain in the outstanding claims balance until resolution. 
  In private-label securitizations, certain presentation thresholds need to be met in order for investors to direct a trustee to assert repurchase claims. Recent increases in new private-label claims are primarily related to repurchase requests received from trustees and third-party sponsors for private-label securitization transactions not included in the BNY Mellon Settlement, including claims related to first-lien third-party sponsored securitizations that include monoline insurance. Over time, there has been an increase in requests for loan files from certain private-label securitization trustees, as well as requests for tolling agreements to toll the applicable statutes of limitation relating to representations and warranties repurchase claims, and the Corporation believes it is likely that these requests will lead to an increase in repurchase claims from private-label securitization trustees with standing to bring such claims. The representations and warranties, as governed by the private-label securitization agreements, generally require that counterparties have the ability to both assert a claim and actually prove that a loan has an actionable defect under the applicable contracts. While the Corporation believes the agreements for private-label securitizations generally contain less rigorous representations and warranties and place higher burdens on investors seeking repurchases than the express provisions of comparable agreements with the GSEs, without regard to any variations that may have arisen as a result of dealings with the GSEs, the agreements generally include a representation that underwriting practices were prudent and customary. In the case of private-label securitization trustees and third-party sponsors, there is currently no established process in place for the parties to reach a conclusion on an individual loan if there is a disagreement on the resolution of the claim. For additional information on repurchase demands, see   Unresolved Repurchase Claims   on page   214  . 
  At   December 31, 2012  , for loans originated between   2004   and   2008  , the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims submitted by private-label securitization trustees and whole-loan investors was   $12.2 billion  . The Corporation has performed an initial review with respect to   $10.9 billion   of these claims and does not believe a valid basis for repurchase has been established by the claimant and is still in the process of reviewing the remaining   $1.3 billion   of these claims. 

NOTE 9   Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill 
  The table below presents goodwill balances by business segment at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . The reporting units utilized for goodwill impairment tests are the operating segments or one level below.  

In   2012  , the International Wealth Management (IWM) businesses within   GWIM  , including   $230 million   of goodwill, were moved to   All Other   in connection with the Corporation s agreement during 2012 to sell these businesses. Prior periods have been reclassified.  
  2012   Annual Impairment Test 
  During the three months ended September 30,   2012  , the Corporation completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30,   2012   for all reporting units. Based on the results of step  

one of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Corporation determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their respective fair values exceeded their carrying values indicating there was no impairment.  
  2011   Impairment Tests 
  During the three months ended   December 31, 2011  , a goodwill impairment test was performed for the European consumer card businesses reporting unit within   All Other   as it was likely that the carrying amount of the businesses exceeded the fair value due to a decrease in estimated future growth projections. The Corporation concluded that goodwill was impaired, and accordingly, recorded a goodwill impairment charge of   $581 million  . 
  During the three months ended June 30,   2011  , as a consequence of the BNY Mellon Settlement entered into by the Corporation on June 28,   2011  , the adverse impact of the incremental mortgage-related charges, and the continued economic slowdown in the mortgage business, the Corporation performed a goodwill impairment test for the   Consumer Real Estate Services (CRES)   reporting unit. The Corporation concluded that the remaining balance of goodwill of   $2.6 billion   was impaired, and accordingly, recorded a goodwill impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill in   CRES   to   zero  . 
    
  Intangible Assets 
  The table below presents the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization for intangible assets at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

(1)   
    Excludes fully amortized intangible assets. 
       At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , none of the intangible assets were impaired. Amortization of intangibles expense was   $1.3 billion  ,   $1.5 billion   and   $1.7 billion   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. The Corporation estimates aggregate amortization  

expense will be approximately   $1.1 billion  ,   $950 million  ,   $840 million  ,   $770 million   and   $670 million   for   2013   through   2017  , respectively. 

NOTE 10   Deposits 
  The Corporation had U.S. certificates of deposit and other U.S. time deposits of $100 thousand or more totaling   $41.9 billion   and   $50.8 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . Non-U.S. certificates of deposit and other non-U.S. time deposits of $100 thousand or more totaled   $29.1 billion   and   $34.0 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The table below presents the contractual maturities for time deposits of $100 thousand or more at   December 31, 2012  . 

The scheduled contractual maturities for total time deposits at   December 31, 2012   are presented in the table below. 

NOTE 11   Federal Funds Sold, Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Short-term Borrowings 
  The table below presents federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and short-term borrowings which include federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. 

n/a = not applicable 
    Bank of America, N.A. maintains a global program to offer up to a maximum of   $75 billion   outstanding at any one time, of bank notes with fixed or floating rates and maturities of at least seven days from the date of issue. Short-term bank notes outstanding under this program totaled   $3.9 billion   and   $6.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . These short-term bank notes,  

along with Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances, U.S. Treasury tax and loan notes, and term federal funds purchased, are included in commercial paper and other short-term borrowings on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. See   Note 12   Long-term Debt   for information regarding the long-term notes that have been issued under the   $75 billion   bank note program. 

NOTE 12   Long-term Debt 
  Long-term debt consists of borrowings having an original maturity of one year or more. The table below presents the balance of long-term debt at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , and the related contractual rates and maturity dates as of   December 31, 2012  . 

Bank of America Corporation, Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries, and Bank of America, N.A. maintain various U.S. and non-U.S. debt programs to offer both senior and subordinated notes. The notes may be denominated in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the amount of foreign currency-denominated debt translated into U.S. dollars included in total long-term debt was   $95.3 billion   and   $117.0 billion  . Foreign currency contracts may be used to convert certain foreign currency-denominated debt into U.S. dollars.  

At   December 31, 2012  , long-term debt of consolidated VIEs in the table above included credit card, automobile, home equity and other VIEs of   $22.3 billion  ,   $713 million  ,   $2.3 billion   and   $8.9 billion  , respectively. Long-term debt of VIEs is collateralized by the assets of the VIEs. For more information, see   Note 7   Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities  .  

At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , Bank of America Corporation had approximately   $154.9 billion   and   $69.8 billion   of authorized, but unissued corporate debt and other securities under its existing U.S. shelf registration statements. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , Bank of America, N.A. had approximately   $65.5 billion   and   $62.4 billion   of authorized, but unissued bank notes under its existing   $75 billion   bank note program. Long-term bank notes issued and outstanding under the program totaled   $5.6 billion   and   $6.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . At both   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , Bank of America, N.A. had approximately   $20.6 billion   of authorized, but unissued mortgage notes under its   $30.0 billion   mortgage bond program. 
  The weighted-average effective interest rates for total long-term debt (excluding senior structured notes), total fixed-rate debt and total floating-rate debt were   4.71 percent  ,   5.52 percent   and   0.93 percent  , respectively, at   December 31, 2012   and   4.35 percent  ,   5.17 percent   and   1.38 percent  , respectively, at   December 31, 2011  . The Corporation s ALM activities maintain an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate contracts to manage fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest  

rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. The weighted-average rates are the contractual interest rates on the debt and do not reflect the impacts of derivative transactions. 
  The weighted-average interest rate for debt, excluding senior structured notes, issued by Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. and subsidiaries was   4.73 percent   and   4.74 percent   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . As of   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation has not assumed or guaranteed the   $89.0 billion   of long-term debt that was issued or guaranteed by Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. or its subsidiaries prior to the acquisition of Merrill Lynch by the Corporation. All existing Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. guarantees of securities issued by certain Merrill Lynch subsidiaries under various non-U.S. securities offering programs will remain in full force and effect as long as those securities are outstanding, and the Corporation has not assumed any of those prior Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. guarantees or otherwise guaranteed such securities. 
  Certain senior structured notes are accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on these senior structured notes, see   Note 22   Fair Value Option  . 
  The table below shows the carrying value for aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt at   December 31, 2012  . 

Included in the above table are certain structured notes that contain provisions whereby the borrowings are redeemable at the option of the holder (put options) at specified dates prior to maturity. Other structured notes have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities and the maturity may be accelerated based on the value of a referenced index or security. In both cases, the Corporation or a subsidiary may be required to settle the obligation for cash or other securities prior to the contractual maturity date. These borrowings are reflected in the above table as maturing at their earliest put or redemption date. 
  In   2012  , in a combination of tender offers, calls and open-market transactions, the Corporation purchased senior and subordinated long-term debt with a carrying value of   $12.4 billion   and recorded net gains of   $1.3 billion   in connection with these transactions. 
  Trust Preferred and Hybrid Securities 
  Trust preferred securities (Trust Securities) are primarily issued by trust companies (the Trusts) that are not consolidated. These Trust Securities are mandatorily redeemable preferred security obligations of the Trusts. The sole assets of the Trusts generally are junior subordinated deferrable interest notes of the Corporation or its subsidiaries (the Notes). The Trusts generally are   100   percent-owned finance subsidiaries of the Corporation. Obligations associated with the Notes are included in the long-term debt table on page   223  .  

Certain of the Trust Securities were issued at a discount and may be redeemed prior to maturity at the option of the Corporation. The Trusts generally have invested the proceeds of such Trust Securities in the Notes. Each issue of the Notes has an interest rate equal to the corresponding Trust Securities distribution rate. The Corporation has the right to defer payment of interest on the Notes at any time or from time to time for a period not exceeding five years provided that no extension period may extend beyond the stated maturity of the relevant Notes. During any such extension period, distributions on the Trust Securities will also be deferred and the Corporation s ability to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock will be restricted. 
  The Trust Securities generally are subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the related Notes at their stated maturity dates or their earlier redemption at a redemption price equal to their liquidation amount plus accrued distributions to the date fixed for redemption and the premium, if any, paid by the Corporation upon concurrent repayment of the related Notes. 
  Periodic cash payments and payments upon liquidation or redemption with respect to Trust Securities are guaranteed by the Corporation or its subsidiaries to the extent of funds held by the Trusts (the Preferred Securities Guarantee). The Preferred Securities Guarantee, when taken together with the Corporation s other obligations including its obligations under the Notes, generally will constitute a full and unconditional guarantee, on a subordinated basis, by the Corporation of payments due on the Trust Securities. 

In   2012  , as described in   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity  , the Corporation entered into various agreements with certain Trust Securities holders pursuant to which the Corporation issued   19 million   shares of common stock valued at   $159 million   and paid   $9.4 billion   in cash in exchange for   $9.8 billion   aggregate liquidation amount of previously issued Trust Securities. Upon the exchange, the Corporation immediately surrendered the Trust Securities to the unconsolidated Trusts for cancellation, resulting in the cancellation of an equal amount of junior subordinated notes that had a carrying value of   $9.9 billion  , resulting in a gain on extinguishment of debt of   $282 million  .  
  During   2012  , the Corporation remarketed the remaining outstanding   $141 million   in aggregate principal amount of its BAC Capital Trust XIII Floating-Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities (HITS) and the remaining outstanding   $493 million   in aggregate principal amount of its BAC Capital Trust XIV Fixed-to-Floating Rate Preferred HITS. The Corporation repurchased and retired all of the remarketable notes in the remarketings. The net proceeds from the remarketing of the BAC Capital Trust XIII Floating-Rate Preferred HITS were used to satisfy the obligations of Trust XIII under a stock     purchase contract agreement, pursuant to which Trust XIII was obligated to purchase, and the Corporation was obligated to sell,   1,409   shares of the Corporation s Series F Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (Series F Preferred Stock). The net proceeds from the remarketing of the BAC Capital Trust XIV Fixed-to-Floating Rate Preferred HITS were used to satisfy the obligations of Trust XIV under a stock purchase contract agreement, pursuant to which Trust XIV was obligated to purchase, and the Corporation was obligated to sell,   4,926   shares of the Corporation s Series G Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (Series G Preferred Stock). Following the remarketing of the notes and the subsequent purchase of the Corporation s preferred stock under the stock purchase contracts, the preferred stock constitutes the sole asset of the applicable trust. 
  In   2011  , the Corporation issued   282 million   shares of common stock valued at   $1.6 billion   and senior notes valued at   $1.5 billion   in exchange for   $3.8 billion   aggregate liquidation amount of previously issued Trust Securities. Upon the exchange, the Corporation immediately surrendered the Trust Securities to the unconsolidated Trusts for cancellation, resulting in the cancellation of an equal amount of junior subordinated notes that had a carrying value of   $4.3 billion  , resulting in a gain on extinguishment of debt of   $1.2 billion  . In addition, the Corporation issued   26 million   shares of common stock valued at   $138 million   and senior notes valued at   $505 million   in exchange for   $917 million   aggregate liquidation amount of HITS. Upon the exchange, the Corporation immediately surrendered the HITS to the unconsolidated Trusts for cancellation, resulting in the cancellation of an equal amount of junior subordinated notes that had a carrying value of   $915 million  , and the cancellation of a corresponding amount of the underlying stock purchase contract, resulting in a   $12 million   loss on extinguishment of debt and an increase to additional paid-in capital of   $284 million  .  

The table below lists each series of Trust Securities or HITS, and the corresponding aggregate liquidation preference covered by the Exchange Agreements described in   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity  , and other redemption activity. 

(1)   
    Notes were denominated in British Pound. Presentation currency is U.S. Dollar. 

On May 25, 2012, the Corporation completed the repurchase of   $134 million   aggregate liquidation amount of capital securities of BAC Capital Trust VI, pursuant to a previously announced tender offer for such securities, and the related cancellation and retirement of the underlying 5.625% Junior Subordinated Notes, due 2035 of the Corporation issued to and held by BAC Capital Trust VI. As a result of this repurchase of capital securities and the related cancellation and retirement of the underlying 5.625% Junior Subordinated Notes, the series of covered debt benefiting from the Corporation s replacement capital covenant,     executed February 16, 2007 in connection with the issuance by BAC Capital Trust XIV of its 5.63% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities (the Replacement Capital Covenant), was redesignated. Effective as of May 25, 2012, the 5.625% Junior    

Subordinated Notes ceased being the covered debt under the Replacement Capital Covenant. Also effective as of May 25, 2012, the     Corporation s 6.875% Junior Subordinated Notes, due 2055 underlying the capital securities of BAC Capital     Trust XII, became the covered debt with respect to and in accordance with the terms of the Replacement     Capital Covenant. 
  The Trust Securities Summary table details the outstanding Trust Securities and the related Notes previously issued which remained outstanding at   December 31, 2012  , as originated by Bank of America Corporation and its predecessor companies and subsidiaries. For additional information on Trust Securities for regulatory capital purposes, see   Note 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions  . 

(1)   
    Notes were denominated in British Pound. Presentation currency is U.S. Dollar. 

NOTE 13   Commitments and Contingencies 
  In the normal course of business, the Corporation enters into a number of off-balance sheet commitments. These commitments expose the Corporation to varying degrees of credit and market risk and are subject to the same credit and market risk limitation reviews as those instruments recorded on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  Credit Extension Commitments 
  The Corporation enters into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, SBLCs and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of its customers. The Credit Extension Commitments table includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commitments net of amounts distributed (e.g., syndicated) to other financial institutions of   $23.9 billion   and   $27.1 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . At  

December 31, 2012  , the carrying amount of these commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option, was   $534 million  , including deferred revenue of   $21 million   and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments of   $513 million  . At   December 31, 2011  , the comparable amounts were   $741 million  ,   $27 million   and   $714 million  , respectively. The carrying amount of these commitments is classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  The table below also includes the notional amount of commitments of   $18.3 billion   and   $25.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   that are accounted for under the fair value option. However, the table below excludes cumulative net fair value adjustments of   $528 million   and   $1.2 billion   on these commitments, which are classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities. For information regarding the Corporation s loan commitments accounted for under the fair value option, see   Note 22   Fair Value Option  . 

(2)    
    Includes business card unused lines of credit. 
       Legally binding commitments to extend credit generally have specified rates and maturities. Certain of these commitments have adverse change clauses that help to protect the Corporation against deterioration in the borrower s ability to pay. 
  Other Commitments 
  Global Principal Investments and Other Equity Investments 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation had unfunded equity investment commitments of   $307 million   and   $772 million  . In light of proposed Basel regulatory capital changes related to unfunded commitments, over the past three years, the Corporation has actively reduced these commitments in a series of sale transactions involving its private equity fund investments. 

Other Commitments 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation had commitments to purchase loans (e.g., residential mortgage and commercial real estate) of   $1.3 billion   and   $2.5 billion  , which upon settlement will be included in loans or LHFS. 
  At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the Corporation had commitments to enter into forward-dated resale and securities borrowing agreements of   $67.3 billion   and   $67.0 billion   and commitments to enter into forward-dated repurchase and securities lending agreements of   $42.3 billion   and   $42.0 billion  . All of these commitments expire within the next 12 months. 
  The Corporation is a party to operating leases for certain of its premises and equipment. Commitments under these leases are approximately   $3.0 billion  ,   $2.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion  ,   $1.7 billion   and   $1.5 billion   for   2013   through   2017  , respectively, and   $6.2 billion   in the aggregate for all years thereafter. 

Other Guarantees 
  Bank-owned Life Insurance Book Value Protection 
  The Corporation sells products that offer book value protection to insurance carriers who offer group life insurance policies to corporations, primarily banks. The book value protection is provided on portfolios of intermediate investment-grade fixed-income securities and is intended to cover any shortfall in the event that policyholders surrender their policies and market value is below book value. These guarantees are recorded as derivatives and carried at fair value in the trading portfolio. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the notional amount of these guarantees totaled   $13.4 billion   and   $15.8 billion   and the Corporation s maximum exposure related to these guarantees totaled   $3.0 billion   and   $3.4 billion   with estimated maturity dates between 2030 and 2040. The net fair value including the fee receivable associated with these guarantees was   $52 million   and   $48 million   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   and reflects the probability of surrender as well as the multiple structural protection features in the contracts. 
  Employee Retirement Protection 
  The Corporation sells products that offer book value protection primarily to plan sponsors of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) governed pension plans, such as 401(k) plans and 457 plans. The book value protection is provided on portfolios of intermediate/short-term investment-grade fixed-income securities and is intended to cover any shortfall in the event that plan participants continue to make qualified withdrawals after all securities have been liquidated and there is remaining book value. The Corporation retains the option to exit the contract at any time. If the Corporation exercises its option, the investment manager will either terminate the contract or convert the portfolio into a high-quality fixed-income portfolio, typically all government or government-backed agency securities, with the proceeds of the liquidated assets to assure the return of principal. To manage its exposure, the Corporation imposes restrictions and constraints on the timing of the withdrawals, the manner in which the portfolio is liquidated and the funds are accessed, and the investment parameters of the underlying portfolio. These constraints, combined with significant structural protections, are designed to provide adequate buffers and guard against payments even under extreme stress scenarios. These guarantees are recorded as derivatives and carried at fair value in the trading portfolio. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the notional amount of these guarantees totaled   $18.4 billion   and   $28.8 billion   with estimated maturity dates up to 2015 if the exit option is exercised on all deals. As of   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had not made a payment under these products. 
  Indemnifications 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation enters into various agreements that contain indemnifications, such as tax indemnifications, whereupon payment may become due if certain external events occur, such as a change in tax law. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and were entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. These agreements typically contain an early termination clause that permits the Corporation to exit the agreement upon these events. The maximum potential future payment under indemnification agreements is difficult to assess for several reasons, including  

the occurrence of an external event, the inability to predict future changes in tax and other laws, the difficulty in determining how such laws would apply to parties in contracts, the absence of exposure limits contained in standard contract language and the timing of the early termination clause. Historically, any payments made under these guarantees have been de minimis. The Corporation has assessed the probability of making such payments in the future as remote. 
  Merchant Services 
  In accordance with credit and debit card association rules, the Corporation sponsors merchant processing servicers that process credit and debit card transactions on behalf of various merchants. In connection with these services, a liability may arise in the event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s favor. If the merchant defaults on its obligation to reimburse the cardholder, the cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until six months after the date of the transaction to present a chargeback to the merchant processor, which is primarily liable for any losses on covered transactions. However, if the merchant processor fails to meet its obligation to reimburse the cardholder for disputed transactions, then the Corporation, as the sponsor, could be held liable for the disputed amount. In   2012   and   2011  , the sponsored entities processed and settled   $604.2 billion   and   $460.4 billion   of transactions and recorded losses of   $10 million   and   $11 million  . A significant portion of this activity was processed by a joint venture in which the Corporation holds a   49 percent   ownership. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the sponsored merchant processing servicers held as collateral   $202 million   and   $238 million   of merchant escrow deposits which may be used to offset amounts due from the individual merchants. 
  The Corporation believes the maximum potential exposure for chargebacks would not exceed the total amount of merchant transactions processed through Visa, MasterCard and Discover for the last six months, which represents the claim period for the cardholder, plus any outstanding delayed-delivery transactions. As of   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the maximum potential exposure for sponsored transactions totaled   $263.9 billion   and   $236.0 billion  . However, the Corporation believes that the maximum potential exposure is not representative of the actual potential loss exposure and does not expect to make material payments in connection with these guarantees. 
  Other Derivative Contracts 
  The Corporation funds selected assets, including securities issued by CDOs and CLOs, through derivative contracts, typically total return swaps, with third parties and VIEs that are not consolidated on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , the total notional amount of these derivative contracts was   $2.9 billion   and   $3.2 billion   with commercial banks and   $1.4 billion   and   $1.8 billion   with VIEs. The underlying securities are senior securities and substantially all of the Corporation s exposures are insured. Accordingly, the Corporation s exposure to loss consists principally of counterparty risk to the insurers. In certain circumstances, generally as a result of ratings downgrades, the Corporation may be required to purchase the underlying assets, which would not result in additional gain or loss to the Corporation as such exposure is already reflected in the fair value of the derivative contracts. 

Other Guarantees 
  The Corporation has entered into additional guarantee agreements and commitments, including lease-end obligation agreements, partial credit guarantees on certain leases, real estate joint venture guarantees, sold risk participation swaps, divested business commitments and sold put options that require gross settlement. The maximum potential future payment under these agreements was approximately   $3.1 billion   and   $3.7 billion   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . The estimated maturity dates of these obligations extend up to 2033. The Corporation has made no material payments under these guarantees. 
  In the normal course of business, the Corporation periodically guarantees the obligations of its affiliates in a variety of transactions including ISDA-related transactions and non ISDA-related transactions such as commodities trading, repurchase agreements, prime brokerage agreements and other transactions. 
  Payment Protection Insurance Claims Matter 
  In the U.K., the Corporation previously sold payment protection insurance (PPI) through its international card services business to credit card customers and consumer loan customers. PPI covers a consumer s loan or debt repayment if certain events occur such as loss of job or illness. In response to an elevated level of customer complaints across the industry, heightened media coverage and pressure from consumer advocacy groups, the U.K. Financial Services Authority (FSA) investigated and raised concerns about the way some companies have handled complaints related to the sale of these insurance policies. In connection with this matter, the Corporation established a reserve for PPI. The reserve was   $510 million   and   $476 million   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . The Corporation recorded expense of   $692 million   and   $77 million   in   2012   and   2011  . It is reasonably possible that the Corporation will incur additional expense related to PPI claims; however, the amount of such additional expense cannot be reasonably estimated. 
  Identity Theft Protection 
  The Corporation has received inquiries from and has been in discussions with regulatory authorities concerning activities related to identity theft protection services, including customers who may have paid for but did not receive certain of such services from third-party vendors of the Corporation, and whether appropriate oversight existed. 
  Litigation and Regulatory Matters 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to many pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants. These actions and proceedings are generally based on alleged violations of consumer protection, securities, environmental, banking, employment, contract and other laws. In some of these actions and proceedings, claims for substantial monetary damages are asserted against the Corporation and its subsidiaries. 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are also subject to regulatory examinations, information gathering requests, inquiries, investigations, and threatened legal actions and proceedings. Certain subsidiaries of the Corporation are registered broker/dealers or investment advisors and are subject to regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the FSA and other domestic,  

international and state securities regulators. In connection with formal and informal inquiries by those agencies, such subsidiaries receive numerous requests, subpoenas and orders for documents, testimony and information in connection with various aspects of their regulated activities. 
  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such litigation and regulatory matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages or where the matters present novel legal theories or involve a large number of parties, the Corporation generally cannot predict what the eventual outcome of the pending matters will be, what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be, or what the eventual loss, fines or penalties related to each pending matter may be. 
  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation establishes an accrued liability for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable and estimable. In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. When a loss contingency is not both probable and estimable, the Corporation does not establish an accrued liability. As a litigation or regulatory matter develops, the Corporation, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, evaluates on an ongoing basis whether such matter presents a loss contingency that is probable and estimable. If, at the time of evaluation, the loss contingency related to a litigation or regulatory matter is not both probable and estimable, the matter will continue to be monitored for further developments that would make such loss contingency both probable and estimable. Once the loss contingency related to a litigation or regulatory matter is deemed to be both probable and estimable, the Corporation will establish an accrued liability with respect to such loss contingency and record a corresponding amount of litigation-related expense. The Corporation continues to monitor the matter for further developments that could affect the amount of the accrued liability that has been previously established. Excluding expenses of internal or external legal service providers, litigation-related expense of   $4.2 billion   was recognized for   2012   compared to   $5.6 billion   for   2011  . 
  For a limited number of the matters disclosed in this Note for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, the Corporation is able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to provide an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its material litigation and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. These may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient appropriate information to develop an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There may be other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible but such an estimate may not be possible. For those matters where an estimate is possible, management currently estimates the aggregate range of possible loss is   $0   to   $3.1 billion   in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. This estimated range of possible loss is based upon currently available information and is subject to significant judgment and a variety of assumptions, and known and unknown uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimated range will change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly  

from the current estimate. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range. Therefore, this estimated range of possible loss represents what the Corporation believes to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation s maximum loss exposure. Information is provided below regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies. Based on current knowledge, management does not believe that loss contingencies arising from pending matters, including the matters described herein, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Corporation. However, in light of the inherent uncertainties involved in these matters, some of which are beyond the Corporation s control, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some of these matters, an adverse outcome in one or more of these matters could be material to the Corporation s results of operations or cash flows for any particular reporting period. 
  Auction Rate Securities Litigation 
  Since October 2007, the Corporation, Merrill Lynch and certain affiliates have been named as defendants in a variety of lawsuits and other proceedings brought by customers, both individual and institutional investors, and issuers regarding auction rate securities (ARS). These actions generally allege that defendants: (i) misled plaintiffs into believing that there was a deeply liquid market for ARS, and (ii) failed to adequately disclose their or their affiliates  practice of placing their own bids to support ARS auctions. Plaintiffs assert that ARS auctions started failing from August 2007 through February 2008 when defendants and other broker/dealers stopped placing those  support bids.  In addition to the matters described in more detail below, arbitrations and individual lawsuits have been filed against the Corporation, Merrill Lynch and certain affiliates by parties who purchased ARS and are seeking relief that includes compensatory and punitive damages and rescission, among other relief. 
  Antitrust Actions 
  On September 4, 2008, two putative antitrust class actions were filed against the Corporation, Merrill Lynch and other financial institutions in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Plaintiffs in both actions assert federal antitrust claims under Section 1 of the Sherman Act based on allegations that defendants conspired to restrain trade in ARS by placing support bids in ARS auctions, only to collectively withdraw those bids in February 2008, which allegedly caused ARS auctions to fail. In the first action,   Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, Maryland v. Citigroup, Inc., et al.  , plaintiff seeks to represent a class of issuers of ARS that defendants underwrote between May 12, 2003 and February 13, 2008. This issuer action seeks to recover, among other relief, the alleged above-market interest payments that ARS issuers allegedly have had to make after defendants allegedly stopped placing  support bids  in ARS auctions. In the second action,   Mayfield, et al. v. Citigroup, Inc., et al.  , plaintiff seeks to represent a class of investors that purchased ARS from defendants and held those securities when ARS auctions failed on February 13, 2008. Plaintiff seeks to recover, among other relief, unspecified damages for losses in the ARS  market value, and rescission of the investors  ARS purchases. Both actions also seek treble damages and attorneys  fees under the Sherman Act s  

private civil remedy. On January 25, 2010, the court dismissed both actions with prejudice and plaintiffs  respective appeals are currently pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
  Countrywide Bond Insurance Litigation 
  The Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities are subject to claims from several monoline bond insurance companies. These claims generally relate to bond insurance policies provided by the insurers on securitized pools of home equity line of credit (HELOC) and fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans. Plaintiffs in these cases generally allege that they have paid claims as a result of defaults in the underlying loans and assert that the Countrywide defendants misrepresented the characteristics of the underlying loans and breached certain contractual representations and warranties regarding the underwriting and servicing of the loans. Plaintiffs also allege that the Corporation is liable based on successor liability theories. 
  Ambac 
  The Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities are named as defendants in an action filed on September 29, 2010 by Ambac Assurance Corporation (Ambac) entitled   Ambac Assurance Corporation and The Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance Corporation v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., et al.   This action, currently pending in New York Supreme Court, New York County, relates to bond insurance policies provided by Ambac on certain securitized pools of first-lien HELOC and fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans. Damages sought by Ambac include the amount of payments for current and future claims it has paid or will pay under the policies, increasing over time as it pays claims under relevant policies. 
  FGIC 
  The Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities are named as defendants in an action filed on December 11, 2009 by Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (FGIC) entitled   Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc  . This action, currently pending in New York Supreme Court, New York County, relates to bond insurance policies provided by FGIC on securitized pools of HELOC and fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans. Damages sought by FGIC include the amount of payments for current and future claims it has paid or will pay under the policies, increasing over time as it pays claims under relevant policies. 
  MBIA 
  The Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities are named as defendants in two actions filed by MBIA Insurance Corporation (MBIA). The first action,   MBIA Insurance Corporation, Inc. v. Countrywide Home Loans, et al.  , filed on September 30, 2008 is pending in New York Supreme Court, New York County. Damages sought by MBIA include the amount of payments for current and future claims it has paid or will pay under the policies, increasing over time as it pays claims under relevant policies. 
  On May 25, 2011, MBIA moved for partial summary judgment, seeking rulings that: (i) MBIA does not have to show that Countrywide s alleged fraud and breaches of contract proximately caused MBIA s losses; and (ii) the term  materially and adversely affects  in the transaction documents does not limit the repurchase remedy to defaulted loans, or require MBIA to show that Countrywide s breaches of the representations and warranties  

caused the loans to default. On January 3, 2012, the court issued an order that granted in part and denied in part MBIA s motion. The court ruled that under New York insurance law, MBIA does not need to prove a causal link between Countrywide s alleged misrepresentations and the payments made pursuant to the policies. The court also held that plaintiff could recover  rescissory damages  (the amounts it has been required to pay pursuant to the policies less premiums received) on such claims, but must prove that it was damaged as a direct result of Countrywide s alleged material misrepresentations. The court denied the motion in its entirety on the issue of the interpretation of the  materially and adversely affects  language. On January 25, 2012, Countrywide appealed the court s decision and order to the extent it granted MBIA s motion. On February 6, 2012, MBIA filed a cross-appeal of the court s decision and order to the extent it denied MBIA s motion. 
  On September 19, 2012, Countrywide moved for summary judgment on MBIA s fraud, indemnification and punitive damages claims and for partial summary judgment on MBIA s breach of contract claim. On that same date, MBIA moved for summary judgment on its insurance breach and repurchase breach claims. The court heard oral argument on the motions on December 12 and 13, 2012.  
  On September 28, 2012, the Corporation moved for summary judgment with respect to MBIA s successor liability claims. On the same day, MBIA moved for summary judgment in its favor with respect to such claims. The motions were argued to the court on January 9 and 10, 2013. 
  The second MBIA action,   MBIA Insurance Corporation, Inc. v. Bank of America Corporation, Countrywide Financial Corporation, Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., Countrywide Securities Corporation, et al.  , filed on July 10, 2009, is pending in California Superior Court, Los Angeles County. MBIA purports to bring this action as subrogee to the note holders for certain securitized pools of HELOC and fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans and seeks unspecified damages and declaratory relief. On May 17, 2010, the court dismissed the claims against the Countrywide defendants with leave to amend, but denied the request to dismiss MBIA s successor liability claims against the Corporation. On June 21, 2010, MBIA filed an amended complaint re-asserting its previously dismissed claims against the Countrywide defendants, re-asserting the successor liability claim against the Corporation and adding Countrywide Capital Markets, LLC as a defendant. The Countrywide defendants filed a demurrer to the amended complaint, but the court declined to rule on the demurrer and instead entered an order staying the case until August 2011. On August 18, 2011, the court ordered a partial lifting of the stay to permit certain limited discovery to proceed. The stay otherwise remains in effect. 
  FIRREA and False Claims Act Litigation 
  On February 24, 2012, Edward O Donnell filed a sealed   qui tam   complaint against the Corporation, individually, and as successor to Countrywide, Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (CHL), and Full Spectrum Lending. On October 24, 2012, the U.S. DOJ filed a complaint-in-intervention to join the matter, adding BANA, Countrywide and CHL as defendants. The action is entitled   United States of America, ex rel, Edward O Donnell, appearing Qui Tam v. Bank of America Corp et al.  , and was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint-in-intervention asserts certain fraud claims in connection with the sale of loans to FNMA and FHLMC by a Countrywide business division known  

as Full Spectrum Lending and by the Corporation and BANA from 2006 continuing through 2009 and also asserts successor liability against the Corporation and BANA. Plaintiff seeks, among other relief, civil penalties pursuant to the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) and treble damages pursuant to the False Claims Act. On January 11, 2013, the government filed an amended complaint which added Countrywide Bank, FSB and a former officer of the Corporation as defendants. 
  Fontainebleau Las Vegas Litigation 
  On June 9, 2009, Fontainebleau Las Vegas, LLC (FBLV), then a Chapter 11 debtor-in-possession, commenced an adversary proceeding entitled   Fontainebleau Las Vegas, LLC v. Bank of America, N.A., Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, et al  . (FBLV action) against a group of lenders, including BANA and Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation (MLCC). The action was originally filed in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida, but was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The complaint alleges, among other things, that defendants breached an agreement to lend their respective committed amounts under an   $800 million   revolving loan facility, of which BANA and MLCC had each committed   $100 million  , in connection with the construction of a resort and casino development. The complaint seeks damages in excess of   $3 billion   and a  turnover  order under Section 542 of the Bankruptcy Code requiring the lenders to fund their respective commitments. On May 10, 2012, the revolving lender group and the trustee agreed to settle all outstanding issues (including the original breach of commitment claims), and the settlement was approved by the court on June 12, 2012; the Corporation s share of this settlement was not material to the Corporation s results of operations. 
  On June 9, 2009, a related lawsuit,   Avenue CLO Fund Ltd., et al. v. Bank of America, N.A., Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, et al  . (the Avenue action), was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada by certain project lenders. On September 21, 2009, another related lawsuit,   ACP Master, Ltd., et al. v. Bank of America, N.A., Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, et al  . (the ACP action), was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by the purported successors-in-interest to certain project lenders. These two actions were subsequently transferred by the U.S. Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation (JPML) to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida for coordinated pretrial proceedings with the FBLV action. Plaintiffs in the Avenue and ACP actions (the Term Lenders) repeat FBLV s allegations that BANA, MLCC and the other defendants breached their revolving loan facility commitments to FBLV. In addition, they  
  allege that BANA breached its duties as disbursement agent under a separate agreement governing the disbursement of loaned funds to FBLV. The Term Lenders seek unspecified money damages on their claims. 
  On May 28, 2010, the district court in the Avenue action and the ACP action granted defendants  motion to dismiss the revolving loan facility commitment claims, but denied BANA s motion to dismiss the disbursement agent claims. On January 13, 2011, the district court granted the Term Lenders  motion for entry of a partial final judgment on their revolving loan facility commitment claims. By decision dated February 20, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit affirmed the dismissal, holding that the Term Lenders lacked standing to enforce the lending commitments. 

On April 19, 2011, the district court dismissed the disbursement agent claims against BANA in the ACP action after the Avenue action plaintiffs represented that they had acquired the claims belonging to the ACP action plaintiffs and would be pursuing those claims in the Avenue action. On March 19, 2012, the district court granted BANA s motion for summary judgment on all causes of action against it in its capacity as disbursement agent in the Avenue Action, and denied plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment on those claims. Plaintiffs filed an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
  Interchange and Related Litigation 
  In 2005, a group of merchants filed a series of putative class actions and individual actions directed at interchange fees associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. These actions, which were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York under the caption   In Re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant Discount Anti-Trust Litigation   (  Interchange  ), named Visa, MasterCard and several banks and BHCs, including the Corporation, as defendants. Plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to fix the level of default interchange rates, which represent the fee an issuing bank charges an acquiring bank on every transaction. Plaintiffs also challenged as unreasonable restraints of trade under Section 1 of the Sherman Act certain rules of Visa and MasterCard related to merchant acceptance of payment cards at the point of sale. Plaintiffs sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on their assertion that interchange would be lower or eliminated absent the alleged conduct. 
  In addition, plaintiffs filed supplemental complaints against certain defendants, including the Corporation, relating to initial public offerings (the IPOs) of MasterCard and Visa. Plaintiffs alleged that the IPOs violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act and Section 1 of the Sherman Act. Plaintiffs also asserted that the MasterCard IPO was a fraudulent conveyance. Plaintiffs sought unspecified damages and to undo the IPOs. 
  On October 19, 2012, defendants entered an agreement to settle the class plaintiffs  claims. The defendants also separately agreed to resolve the claims brought by a group of individual retailers that opted out of the class to pursue independent litigation. The settlement agreements provide for, among other things, (i) payments by defendants to the class and individual plaintiffs totaling approximately   $6.6 billion  ; (ii) distribution to class merchants of an amount equal to   10   bps of default interchange across all Visa and MasterCard credit card transactions for a period of eight consecutive months, to begin by July 29, 2013, which otherwise would have been paid to issuers and which effectively reduces credit interchange for that period of time; and (iii) modifications to Visa and MasterCard rules regarding merchant point of sale practices. 
  Subject to the loss-sharing agreements the Corporation and certain affiliates previously entered with Visa, MasterCard and other financial institutions, the Corporation will contribute a total of   $738 million   to the settlement of the class and individual actions. Of that amount,   $539 million   will be paid from the proceeds that Visa previously placed into an escrow fund pursuant to Visa s Retrospective Responsibility Plan (the RRP) to cover the Corporation s share of Visa-related claims. 
  The court granted preliminary approval of the class settlement agreement on November 9, 2012, over the objections of several class members. The objecting class members appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which denied  

appellants  motion for expedited appeal and deferred briefing until after final approval of the settlement. The final approval hearing is scheduled for September 12, 2013. 
  On March 28, 2011, an action entitled   Watson v. Bank of America Corp. (Watson)   was filed on in the Supreme Court of British Columbia, Canada, by a purported nationwide class of merchants that accept Visa and/or MasterCard credit cards in Canada. The action names as defendants Visa, MasterCard, and a number of other banks and BHCs, including the Corporation. The action alleges that defendants conspired to fix the merchant discount fees that merchants pay to acquiring banks on credit card transactions. It also alleges that defendants conspired to impose certain rules relating to merchant acceptance of credit cards at the point of sale. The action asserts claims under section 45 of the Competition Act and other common law claims, and seeks unspecified damages and injunctive relief based on the assertion that merchant discount fees would be lower absent the challenged conduct. The action is not covered by the RRP or loss-sharing agreements previously entered in connection with certain antitrust litigation, including   Interchange  . In addition to   Watson,   the Corporation has been named as a defendant in similar putative class action claims filed in other jurisdictions in Canada. 
  In re Bank of America Securities, Derivative and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) Litigation 
  Beginning in January 2009, the Corporation, as well as certain current and former officers and directors, among others, were named as defendants in a variety of actions filed in state and federal courts in connection with securities filings by the Corporation. The securities filings contained information with respect to events that took place from September 2008 through January 2009 contemporaneous with the Corporation s acquisition of Merrill Lynch (the Acquisition). These cases included class action and individual securities lawsuits, derivative actions, actions under the ERISA, and an action brought by the New York Attorney General (NYAG) under the Martin Act and the New York Executive Law. Certain federal court actions were consolidated and/or coordinated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York under the caption   In re Bank of America Securities, Derivative and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) Litigation   (the Consolidated Action). 
  The claims in these actions generally concern alleged material misrepresentations and/or material omissions with respect to: (i) the Acquisition; (ii) the financial condition of and 2008 fourth-quarter losses experienced by the Corporation and Merrill Lynch; (iii) due diligence conducted in connection with the Acquisition; (iv) the terms of the Acquisition agreements regarding Merrill Lynch s ability to pay bonuses to Merrill Lynch employees of up to   $5.8 billion   for the year 2008; (v) the Corporation s discussions with government officials in December 2008 regarding the Corporation s consideration of invoking the material adverse change clause in the Acquisition agreement; (vi) the Corporation s discussions with government officials in December 2008 regarding the possibility of obtaining government assistance in completing the Acquisition; and/or (vii) the proxy statement and related materials for the Acquisition. 
  Consolidated Securities Class Action 
  Plaintiffs (Securities Plaintiffs) in the securities class action in the Consolidated Action (Consolidated Securities Class Action) asserted claims under Sections 14(a), 10(b) and 20(a) of the  

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), and Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the Securities     Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and asserted damages based on the drop in the stock price upon subsequent disclosures. 
  In February 2012, the court granted a motion for class certification. On November 30, 2012, the parties entered into a settlement agreement. The agreement, which is subject to court approval, provides for a payment by the Corporation of   $2.4 billion  , an amount that was fully accrued as of September 30, 2012, and the institution and/or continuation of certain corporate governance enhancements until the later of January 1, 2015 or 18 months following the court s final approval of the settlement. In exchange, Securities Plaintiffs released their claims against all defendants and certain other persons or entities affiliated with defendants. 
  On December 4, 2012, the court issued an order granting preliminary approval of the settlement and scheduling a final settlement hearing for April 5, 2013. 
  Individual Securities Actions 
  Certain shareholders have opted to pursue their claims under the Exchange Act and/or Securities Act apart from the Consolidated Securities Class Action, and these individual actions were coordinated for pre-trial purposes in the Consolidated Action. These individual plaintiffs assert substantially the same facts and claims as the class action plaintiffs. 
  Derivative Actions 
  On October 9, 2009, plaintiffs in the derivative action in the Consolidated Action (Derivative Plaintiffs) filed a consolidated amended derivative and class action complaint. The amended complaint named as defendants certain of the Corporation s current and former directors, officers and financial advisors, and certain of Merrill Lynch s current and former directors and officers. The Corporation was named as a nominal defendant with respect to the derivative claims. Derivative Plaintiffs asserted claims for, among other things: (i) violation of federal securities laws; (ii) breach of fiduciary duties; (iii) the return of incentive compensation that is alleged to be inappropriate in view of the work performed and the results achieved by certain of the defendants; and (iv) contribution. On February 8, 2010, Derivative Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against each of the former Merrill Lynch officers and directors without prejudice. 
  On June 19, 2012, the parties entered into a settlement agreement. On January 11, 2013, the district court granted final approval of the settlement. 
  The Corporation and certain current and former directors are also named as defendants in a consolidated derivative action in the Delaware Court of Chancery under the caption   In re Bank of America Corporation Stockholder Derivative Litigation   brought by shareholders alleging breaches of fiduciary duties and waste of corporate assets in connection with the Acquisition. The consolidated derivative complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified monetary damages, equitable remedies and other relief. On May 9, 2012, the court stayed the action pending the New York court s consideration of the proposed settlement in the derivative action in the Consolidated Action. In the settlement of the derivative action in the Consolidated Action, plaintiffs in the Delaware action agreed to withdraw their claims. 

ERISA Actions 
  On October 9, 2009, plaintiffs in the ERISA actions in the Consolidated Action (ERISA Plaintiffs) asserted claims on behalf of a purported class consisting of participants in certain of the Corporation s 401(k) plans (collectively, the 401(k) Plans). ERISA Plaintiffs alleged violations of ERISA and sought unspecified monetary damages, equitable remedies and other relief. On August 27, 2010, the court dismissed the complaint and ERISA Plaintiffs appealed. On January 14, 2013, the parties stipulated to the withdrawal of the appeal with prejudice. 
  NYAG Action 
  On February 4, 2010, the NYAG filed a civil complaint in New York Supreme Court entitled   People of the State of New York v. Bank of America, et al  . The complaint names as defendants the Corporation and the Corporation s former CEO and CFO, and alleges violations of Sections 352, 352-c(1)(a), 352-c(1)(c) and 353 of the Martin Act, and Section 63(12) of the New York Executive Law. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount in disgorgement, penalties, restitution, and damages and other equitable relief. 
  LIBOR and Other Reference Rate Inquiries and Litigation 
  The Corporation has received subpoenas and information requests from government authorities in North America, Europe and Asia, including the U.S. DOJ, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.K. FSA, concerning submissions made by panel banks in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates (LIBOR) and European and other reference rates. The Corporation is cooperating with these inquiries. 
  In addition, the Corporation and BANA have been named as defendants along with most of the other LIBOR panel banks in a series of individual and class actions in various U.S. federal and state courts relating to defendants  LIBOR contributions. All cases naming the Corporation have been or are in the process of being consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by the JPML. The Corporation expects that any future cases naming the Corporation will similarly be consolidated for pre-trial purposes. Plaintiffs allege that they held or transacted in U.S. dollar LIBOR-based derivatives or other financial instruments and sustained losses as a result of collusion or manipulation by defendants regarding the setting of U.S. dollar LIBOR. Plaintiffs assert a variety of claims, including antitrust and Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations claims and seek compensatory, treble and punitive damages, and injunctive relief. 
  Montgomery 
  The Corporation, several current and former officers and directors, Banc of America Securities LLC (BAS), Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith (MLPF S) and other unaffiliated underwriters have been named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled   Montgomery v. Bank of America, et al  . Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on January 14, 2011. Plaintiff seeks to sue on behalf of all persons who acquired certain series of preferred stock offered by the Corporation pursuant to a shelf registration statement dated May 5, 2006. Plaintiff s claims arise from three offerings dated January 24, 2008, January 28, 2008 and May 20, 2008, from which the Corporation allegedly received proceeds of   $15.8 billion  . The amended complaint asserts claims under Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, and alleges that the prospectus supplements associated with the  

offerings: (i) failed to disclose that the Corporation s loans, leases, CDOs and commercial MBS were impaired to a greater extent than disclosed; (ii) misrepresented the extent of the impaired assets by failing to establish adequate reserves or properly record losses for its impaired assets; (iii) misrepresented the adequacy of the Corporation s internal controls in light of the alleged impairment of its assets; (iv) misrepresented the Corporation s capital base and Tier 1 leverage ratio for risk-based capital in light of the allegedly impaired assets; and (v) misrepresented the thoroughness and adequacy of the Corporation s due diligence in connection with its acquisition of Countrywide. The amended complaint seeks rescission, compensatory and other damages. Defendants moved to dismiss for failure to state a claim. On February 9, 2012, the magistrate judge concluded that the amended complaint does not adequately plead claims under the Securities Act of 1933 and recommended that the district court dismiss the amended complaint in its entirety and deny plaintiffs  request to amend the complaint without prejudice. 
  On March 15, 2012, plaintiffs moved to file a second amended complaint to add additional factual allegations. On March 16, 2012, the district court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the first amended complaint and referred the motion to amend to the magistrate judge. On February 15, 2013, the magistrate judge issued an opinion and order denying the motion to amend.  
  Mortgage-backed Securities Litigation 
  The Corporation and its affiliates, Countrywide entities and their affiliates, and Merrill Lynch entities and their affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of cases relating to their various roles as issuer, originator, seller, depositor, sponsor, underwriter and/or controlling entity in MBS offerings, pursuant to which the MBS investors were entitled to a portion of the cash flow from the underlying pools of mortgages. These cases generally include purported class action suits and actions by individual MBS purchasers. Although the allegations vary by lawsuit, these cases generally allege that the registration statements, prospectuses and prospectus supplements for securities issued by securitization trusts contained material misrepresentations and omissions, in violation of Sections 11, 12 and/or 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and/or 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and/or state securities laws and other state statutory and common laws. 
  These cases generally involve allegations of false and misleading statements regarding: (i) the process by which the properties that served as collateral for the mortgage loans underlying the MBS were appraised; (ii) the percentage of equity that mortgage borrowers had in their homes; (iii) the borrowers  ability to repay their mortgage loans; (iv) the underwriting practices by which those mortgage loans were originated; (v) the ratings given to the different tranches of MBS by rating agencies; and (vi) the validity of each issuing trust s title to the mortgage loans comprising the pool for that securitization (collectively, MBS Claims). Plaintiffs in these cases generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, unspecified costs and legal fees and, in some instances, seek rescission. A number of other entities have threatened legal actions against the Corporation and its affiliates, Countrywide entities and their affiliates, and Merrill Lynch entities and their affiliates concerning MBS offerings. On January 11, 2013, the Corporation preliminarily agreed on a settlement amount with the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to resolve claims concerning certain MBS offerings that the NCUA had threatened to bring against the Corporation, Merrill Lynch,  

Countrywide and certain of their affiliates. The agreement is subject to the negotiation and execution of mutually agreeable settlement documentation and approval by the NCUA board. The settlement amount would be covered by existing reserves. 
  On August 15, 2011, the JPML ordered multiple federal court cases involving Countrywide MBS consolidated for pretrial purposes in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, in a multi-district litigation entitled   In re Countrywide Financial Corp. Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation   (the Countrywide RMBS MDL). 
  AIG Litigation 
  On August 8, 2011, American International Group, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively, AIG) filed a complaint in New York Supreme Court, New York County, in a case entitled   American International Group, Inc. et al. v. Bank of America Corporation et al.   AIG has named the Corporation, Merrill Lynch, CHL and a number of related entities as defendants. AIG s complaint asserts certain MBS Claims pertaining to   347   MBS offerings and two private placements in which it alleges that it purchased securities between 2005 and 2007. AIG seeks rescission of its purchases or a rescissory measure of damages or, in the alternative, compensatory damages of no less than   $10 billion  , punitive damages and other unspecified relief. Defendants removed the case to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The district court denied AIG s motion to remand the case to state court. 
  On December 21, 2011, the JPML transferred the Countrywide MBS claims to the Countrywide RMBS MDL in the Central District of California. The non-Countrywide MBS claims will be heard in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. 
  On April 24, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit granted plaintiffs  petition for leave to appeal the ruling of the district court in the Southern District of New York denying plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to the New York Supreme Court. The appeal is pending. 
  On May 23, 2012, the district court in the Central District of California dismissed with prejudice plaintiffs  federal securities claims and certain of the state law common law claims. On August 31, 2012, AIG filed an amended complaint, which, among other things, added claims against the Corporation and certain related entities for constructive fraudulent conveyance and intentional fraudulent conveyance. 
  FHFA Litigation 
  The FHFA, as conservator for FNMA and FHLMC, filed an action on September 2, 2011 against the Corporation and related entities, Countrywide and related entities, certain former officers of these entities, and NB Holdings Corporation in New York Supreme Court, New York County, entitled   Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al.   (the FHFA Countrywide Litigation). FHFA s complaint asserts certain MBS Claims in connection with allegations that FNMA and FHLMC purchased MBS issued by Countrywide-related entities in   86   MBS offerings between 2005 and 2008. The FHFA seeks among other relief, rescission of the consideration paid for the securities or alternatively damages allegedly incurred by FNMA and FHLMC, including consequential damages. The FHFA also seeks recovery of punitive damages. 
  On September 30, 2011, Countrywide removed the FHFA Countrywide Litigation from New York Supreme Court to the U.S.  

District Court for the Southern District of New York. On February 7, 2012, the JPML transferred the matter to the Countrywide RMBS MDL. On April 5, 2012, the court denied the FHFA s motion to remand the FHFA Countrywide Litigation to New York Supreme Court. On October 18, 2012, the court dismissed as untimely FHFA s Section   11   claims as to   24   of the   86   MBS allegedly purchased by FNMA and FHLMC, but otherwise denied the motion to dismiss on statute of limitations and statute of repose grounds. 
  Also on September 2, 2011, the FHFA, as conservator for FNMA and FHLMC, filed complaints in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Corporation and Merrill Lynch related entities, and certain current and former officers and directors of these entities. The actions are entitled   Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Bank of America Corporation, et al.   (the FHFA Bank of America Litigation) and   Federal Housing Finance Agency v. Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc., et al.   (the FHFA Merrill Lynch Litigation). The complaints assert certain MBS Claims relating to MBS issued and/or underwritten by the Corporation, Merrill Lynch and related entities in   23   MBS offerings and in   72   MBS offerings, respectively, between 2005 and 2008 and allegedly purchased by either FNMA or FHLMC in their investment portfolio. The FHFA seeks among other relief, rescission of the consideration paid for the securities or alternatively damages allegedly incurred by FNMA and FHLMC, including consequential damages. The FHFA also seeks recovery of punitive damages in the FHFA Merrill Lynch Litigation. The FHFA Bank of America Litigation and the FHFA Merrill Lynch Litigation, along with   14   other cases filed by the FHFA against other financial institutions, have been coordinated before a single judge in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. One action,   FHFA v. UBS Americas, Inc., et al.   (the UBS Action), was designated the lead action with respect to allegations and claims common to the pending FHFA cases. On May 4, 2012, the court denied in part and granted in part a motion to dismiss in the UBS Action. The court subsequently denied motions to dismiss in the FHFA Merrill Lynch Litigation and the FHFA Bank of America Litigation on November 8, 2012 and November 28, 2012, respectively. On August 14, 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit granted the UBS defendants  application for an interlocutory appeal of the district court s ruling pertaining to the statute of repose on the federal and state securities law claims and the statute of limitations on the federal securities law claims asserted in the UBS Action. The FHFA has asserted similar claims in the FHFA Merrill Lynch Litigation and the FHFA Bank of America Litigation. 
  Federal Home Loan Bank Litigation 
  On January 18, 2011, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (FHLB Atlanta) filed a complaint asserting certain MBS Claims against the Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities in Georgia State Court, Fulton County, entitled   Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al  . FHLB Atlanta seeks rescission of its purchases or a rescissory measure of damages, unspecified punitive damages and other unspecified relief in connection with its alleged purchase of   16   MBS offerings issued and/or underwritten by Countrywide-related entities between 2004 and 2007. 
  On March 15, 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (FHLB San Francisco) filed an action in California Superior Court, San Francisco County, entitled   Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco v. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, et al.   FHLB San Francisco s complaint asserts certain MBS Claims against BAS, Countrywide and several related entities in  

connection with its alleged purchase of   51   MBS offerings and one private placement issued and/or underwritten by those defendants between 2004 and 2007 and seeks rescission and unspecified damages. FHLB San Francisco dismissed the federal claims with prejudice on August 11, 2011. On September 8, 2011, the court denied defendants  motions to dismiss the state law claims. 
  Luther Litigation and Related Actions 
  On November 14, 2007, David H. Luther and various pension funds (collectively, the Luther Plaintiffs) commenced a putative class action against Countrywide, several of its affiliates, MLPF S and certain former officers of these in California Superior Court, Los Angeles County, entitled   Luther v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al.   (the Luther Action). The Luther Plaintiffs  complaint asserts certain MBS Claims in connection with MBS issued by subsidiaries of Countrywide in   429   offerings between 2005 and 2007. The Luther Plaintiffs certified that they collectively purchased securities in   63   of   429   offerings for approximately   $216 million  . The Luther Plaintiffs seek compensatory and/or rescissory damages and other unspecified relief. On January 6, 2010, the court granted Countrywide s motion to dismiss with prejudice due to lack of subject matter jurisdiction. On May 18, 2011, the California Court of Appeal reversed the dismissal and remanded to the Superior Court. On June 12, 2012, the Countrywide defendants removed the case from the California Superior Court to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. On August 31, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California denied the plaintiffs  motion to remand to the California Superior Court. 
  Following the previous dismissal of the Luther Action on January 6, 2010, the Maine State Retirement System filed a putative class action in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, entitled   Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al.   (the Maine Action). The Maine Action names the same defendants as the Luther Action, as well as the Corporation and NB Holdings Corporation, and asserts substantially the same allegations regarding   427   of the MBS offerings that were at issue in the Luther Action. Plaintiffs in the Maine Action (Maine Plaintiffs) seek compensatory and/or rescissory damages and other unspecified relief. 
  On November 4, 2010, the court granted Countrywide s motion to dismiss the amended complaint in its entirety and held that the Maine Plaintiffs only have standing to sue over the   81   offerings in which they actually purchased MBS. The court also held that the applicable statute of limitations could be tolled by the filing of the Luther Action only with respect to the offerings in which the Luther Plaintiffs actually purchased MBS. As a result of these standing and tolling rulings, the number of offerings at issue in the Maine Action was reduced from   427   to   14  . On December 6, 2010, the Maine Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint that relates to   14   MBS offerings. On April 21, 2011, the court dismissed with prejudice the successor liability claims against the Corporation and NB Holdings Corporation.     On May 6, 2011, the court held that the Maine Plaintiffs only have standing to sue over the specific MBS tranches that they purchased, and that the applicable statute of limitations could be tolled by the filing of the Luther Action only with respect to the specific tranches of MBS that the Luther Plaintiffs purchased. As a result of these tranche-specific standing and tolling rulings, the Maine Action was further reduced from   14   offerings to   eight   tranches. On June 6, 2011, the Maine Plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint that related to   eight   MBS tranches. On June 15, 2011, the court denied the Maine Plaintiffs  motion  

to permit immediate interlocutory appeal of the court s orders on standing, tolling of the statute of limitations and successor liability. On October 12, 2011, upon stipulation by the parties, the court certified a class consisting of   eight   subclasses, one for each of the eight MBS tranches at issue. 
  On November 17, 2010, Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund (Western Teamsters) filed a putative class action against the same defendants named in the Maine Action in California Superior Court, Los Angeles County, entitled   Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al  . Western Teamsters  complaint asserts that Western Teamsters and other unspecified investors purchased MBS issued in the   428   offerings that were also at issue in the Luther Action and asserts substantially the same allegations as the Luther Action. Western Teamsters has been coordinated with the Luther Action. Western Teamsters seeks unspecified compensatory and/or rescissory damages and other unspecified relief. On June 12, 2012, the Countrywide defendants removed the case from the California Superior Court to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. On August 31, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California denied the plaintiffs  motion to remand to the California Superior Court. 
  On January 27, 2011, Putnam Bank filed a putative class action lawsuit against Countrywide, the Corporation and several related entities, among others, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, entitled   Putnam Bank v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al  . Putnam Bank s complaint asserts certain MBS Claims in connection with alleged purchases in   eight   MBS offerings issued by Countrywide subsidiaries between 2005 and 2007. Putnam Bank seeks rescission of its purchases or a rescissory measure of unspecified damages and/or compensatory damages and other unspecified relief. On August 15, 2011, the case was transferred to the Countrywide RMBS MDL. On March 9, 2012, the court dismissed the complaint in   Putnam Bank v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al.  , as time-barred, with prejudice. On May 23, 2012, the court denied Putnam Bank s motion to seek immediate interlocutory appeal of the court s order dismissing the case, in its entirety and with prejudice, as time-barred. 
  Regulatory Investigations 
  The Corporation has received a number of subpoenas and other requests for information from regulators and governmental authorities regarding MBS and other mortgage-related matters, including inquiries, investigations and potential proceedings related to a number of transactions involving the Corporation s underwriting and issuance of MBS and its participation in certain CDO offerings. These inquiries and investigations include, among others, an investigation by the SEC related to Merrill Lynch s risk control, valuation, structuring, marketing and purchase of CDOs, and an investigation by the New York State Attorney General concerning the purchase, securitization and underwriting of mortgage loans and MBS. The Corporation has provided documents and testimony and continues to cooperate fully with these inquiries and investigations. 
  Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Countrywide may also be subject to contractual indemnification obligations in the MBS matters discussed above. 

Mortgage Repurchase Litigation 
  TMST, Inc. Litigation 
  On April 29, 2011, the Chapter 11 bankruptcy trustee for TMST, Inc. (formerly known as Thornburg Mortgage, Inc.) and for certain affiliated entities (collectively, Thornburg), along with Zuni Investors, LLC (ZI), filed an adversary proceeding in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Maryland entitled   In Re TMST, Inc., f/k/a Thornburg Mortgage, Inc.   against CHL and the Corporation. Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on July 29, 2011, in which they allege, among other things, that CHL sold residential mortgage loans to Thornburg pursuant to two agreements, and that CHL allegedly breached certain representations and warranties contained in those agreements concerning property appraisals, prudent and customary loan origination practices, accuracy of mortgage loan schedules and occupancy status. The complaint further alleges that those loans were deposited by Thornburg into a securitization trust, that ZI purchased certificates issued by that trust, and that the securitization trustee subsequently assigned to ZI and the bankruptcy trustee the right to pursue representation and warranty claims. Plaintiffs seek a court order requiring CHL to repurchase the mortgage loans at issue, or alternatively, unspecified damages for alleged breach of contract. CHL and the Corporation filed motions to dismiss the case, to withdraw the reference to the Bankruptcy Court, and for transfer of venue to the United States District Court for the Central District of California. On July 12, 2012, the case was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, which on August 21, 2012, granted CHL s and the Corporation s motions to transfer venue to the United States District Court for the Central District of California. That court heard argument on CHL s motion to dismiss on November 27, 2012. On February 26, 2013, the parties agreed to settle the case for an amount not material to the Corporation s results of operations. The agreement is subject to, among other things, approval by the bankruptcy court overseeing the Thornburg bankruptcy. On February 26, 2013, the bankruptcy trustee filed a motion to approve the settlement. The motion is tentatively scheduled to be heard on March 20, 2013. 
  U.S. Bank Litigation 
  On August 29, 2011, U.S. Bank, National Association (U.S. Bank), as trustee for the HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10 (the Trust), a mortgage pool backed by loans originated by CHL, filed a complaint in New York Supreme Court, New York County, in a case entitled   U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee for HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust, Series 2005-10 v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (dba Bank of America Home Loans), Bank of America Corporation, Countrywide Financial Corporation, Bank of America, N.A., and NB Holdings Corporation.   U.S. Bank asserts that, as a result of alleged misrepresentations by CHL in connection with its sale of the loans, defendants must repurchase all the loans in the pool, or in the alternative that it must repurchase a subset of those loans as to which U.S. Bank alleges that defendants have refused specific repurchase demands. U.S. Bank asserts claims for breach of contract and seeks specific performance of defendants  alleged obligation to repurchase the entire pool of loans (alleged to have an original aggregate principal balance of   $1.75 billion  ) or alternatively the aforementioned subset (alleged to have an aggregate principal balance of  over $100 million ), together with reimbursement of costs and expenses and other unspecified relief. Defendants removed the case to the U.S. District Court for  

the Southern District of New York, and the JPML issued an order transferring the case to the Countrywide RMBS MDL in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. On April 5, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California remanded the case to New York Supreme Court. 
  Policemen s Annuity Litigation 
  On April 11, 2012, the Policemen s Annuity   Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago, on its own behalf and on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers of   41   RMBS trusts collateralized by Washington Mutual-originated (WaMu) mortgages, filed a proposed class action complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, entitled   Policemen s Annuity and Benefit Fund of the City of Chicago v. Bank of America, NA and U.S. Bank National Association  . BANA and U.S. Bank are named as defendants in their capacities as trustees, with BANA (formerly LaSalle Bank National Association) having served as the original trustee and U.S. Bank having replaced BANA as trustee. Plaintiff asserts claims under the federal Trust Indenture Act as well as state common law claims. Plaintiff alleges that, in light of the performance of the RMBS at issue, and in the wake of publicly-available information about the quality of loans originated by WaMu, the trustees were required to take certain steps to protect plaintiff s interest in the value of the securities, and that plaintiff was damaged by defendants  failures to notify it of deficiencies in the loans and of defaults under the relevant agreements, to ensure that the underlying mortgages could properly be foreclosed, and to enforce remedies available for loans that contained breaches of representations and warranties. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and/or equitable relief, and costs and expenses. 
  On December 7, 2012, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss, and granted plaintiff leave to replead some of the dismissed claims. The court ruled, among other things, that plaintiff has standing to pursue claims on behalf of purchasers of certificates in certain tranches of   five   trusts. Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint on January 13, 2013, which added plaintiffs and asserted claims concerning   19   trusts.  
  Ocala Litigation 
  Ocala Investor Actions 
  On November 25, 2009, BNP Paribas Mortgage Corporation and Deutsche Bank AG each filed claims (the 2009 Actions) against BANA in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled   BNP Paribas Mortgage Corporation v. Bank of America, N.A.   and   Deutsche Bank AG v. Bank of America, N.A  . Plaintiffs allege that BANA failed to properly perform its duties as indenture trustee, collateral agent, custodian and depositary for Ocala Funding, LLC (Ocala), a home mortgage warehousing facility, resulting in the loss of plaintiffs  investment in Ocala. Ocala was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Taylor, Bean   Whitaker Mortgage Corp. (TBW), a home mortgage originator and servicer which is alleged to have committed fraud that led to its eventual bankruptcy. Ocala provided funding for TBW s mortgage origination activities by issuing notes, the proceeds of which were to be used by TBW to originate home mortgages. Such mortgages and other Ocala assets in turn were pledged to BANA, as collateral agent, to secure the notes. Plaintiffs lost most or all of their investment in Ocala when, as the result of the alleged fraud committed by TBW, Ocala was unable to repay the notes purchased by plaintiffs and there was insufficient collateral to satisfy Ocala s debt obligations. Plaintiffs allege that  

BANA breached its contractual, fiduciary and other duties to Ocala, thereby permitting TBW s alleged fraud to go undetected. Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages and other relief from BANA, including interest and attorneys  fees, in an unspecified amount, but which plaintiffs allege exceeds   $1.6 billion  . 
  On March 23, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York issued an order granting in part and denying in part BANA s motions to dismiss the 2009 Actions. The court dismissed plaintiffs  claims against BANA in its capacity as custodian and depositary, as well as plaintiffs  claims for contractual indemnification and other claims. The court retained the claims questioning BANA s performance as indenture trustee and collateral agent. Finally, the court agreed with BANA that plaintiffs may not pursue claims based upon Ocala notes issued prior to July 20, 2009 (the date on which plaintiffs purchased the last issuance of Ocala notes). 
  On August 30, 2010, plaintiffs each filed new lawsuits (the 2010 Actions) against BANA in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida entitled   BNP Paribas Mortgage Corporation v. Bank of America, N.A.   and   Deutsche Bank AG v. Bank of America, N.A.  , which the parties agreed to transfer to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York as related to the 2009 Actions. On December 29, 2011, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the 2010 Actions without prejudice and moved for leave to amend their complaints in the 2009 Actions to include additional contractual, tort and equitable claims. On June 5, 2012, the court granted plaintiffs  motion. Plaintiffs filed amended complaints on October 1, 2012. 
  FDIC Action 
  On October 1, 2010, BANA filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDIC as receiver of Colonial Bank, TBW s primary bank, and Platinum Community Bank (Platinum, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TBW) entitled   Bank of America, National Association as indenture trustee, custodian and collateral agent for Ocala Funding, LLC v. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation   (the FDIC Action)  .   The suit seeks judicial review of the FDIC s denial of the administrative claims brought by BANA in the FDIC s Colonial and Platinum receivership proceedings. BANA s claims allege that Ocala s losses were in whole or in part the result of Colonial and Platinum s participation in TBW s alleged fraud. BANA seeks a court order requiring the FDIC to allow BANA s claims in an amount equal to Ocala s losses and, accordingly, to permit BANA, as trustee, collateral agent, custodian and depositary for Ocala, to share appropriately in distributions of any receivership assets that the FDIC makes to creditors of the two failed banks. 
  On August 5, 2011, the FDIC answered and moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and asserted counterclaims against BANA in BANA s individual capacity seeking approximately   $900 million   in damages. The counterclaims allege that Colonial sent   4,808   loans to BANA as bailee; that BANA converted the loans into Ocala collateral without first ensuring that Colonial was paid; and that Colonial was never paid for these loans. BANA filed an opposition to the FDIC s motion to dismiss on October 21, 2011, along with a motion to dismiss the FDIC s counterclaims. 
  On December 10, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia granted in part and denied in part the FDIC s motion to dismiss BANA s amended complaint. The court dismissed BANA s claims to the extent they were brought on behalf of Ocala, holding that those claims were not administratively exhausted, and also dismissed three equitable claims, but allowed BANA to continue to pursue claims in its individual capacity and on behalf  

of Ocala s secured parties, principally plaintiffs in the 2009 Actions. The court also granted in part and denied in part BANA s motion to dismiss the FDIC s counterclaims, allowing all but   one   of the FDIC s   16   counterclaims to go forward. 
  Ocala Bankruptcy 
  On July 10, 2012, Ocala filed a pre-arranged voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Florida, pursuant to an agreement among Ocala, BANA, BNP Paribas Mortgage Corporation, Deutsche Bank AG, the FDIC and Ocala s owner, TBW. Among other things, the proposed bankruptcy plan and certain side agreements would permit the Ocala bankruptcy trustee to pursue litigation against third parties to mitigate BANA s potential losses in the FDIC Action and the 2009 Actions. Certain agreements embodied by that plan, including an agreement among the parties to allow BANA to assign claims held in its representative capacities to the Ocala bankruptcy estate, were approved by the Court on August 23, 2012. The remainder of the proposed plan is subject to approval by the bankruptcy court. 
    NOTE 14   Shareholders  Equity 
  Common Stock 

In   2012   and   2011  , in connection with the exchanges described in Preferred Stock in this Note, the Corporation issued   50 million   and   400 million   shares of common stock. 
  On September 1, 2011, the Corporation closed the sale to Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. (Berkshire) of   50,000   shares of the Series T Preferred Stock and a warrant (the Warrant) to purchase   700 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock for an aggregate purchase price of   $5.0 billion   in cash. Of the   $5.0 billion   in cash proceeds,   $2.9 billion   was allocated to preferred stock and   $2.1 billion   to the Warrant on a relative fair value basis. The discount on the Series T Preferred Stock is not subject to accretion. The portion of proceeds allocated to the Warrant was recorded as additional paid-in capital. The Warrant is exercisable at the holder s option at any time, in whole or in part, until September 1, 2021, at an exercise price of   $7.142857   per share of common stock. The Warrant may be settled in cash or by exchanging all or a portion of the Series T Preferred Stock. For additional information on the Berkshire investment and Series T Preferred Stock, see Preferred Stock in this Note. 
  At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase   121.8 million   shares of common stock at an exercise price of   $30.79   per share expiring on October 28, 2018, and warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase   150.4 million   shares of common stock at an exercise price of   $13.30   per share expiring on January 16, 2019. These warrants were originally issued in connection with preferred stock  

issuances to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in 2010 and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
  In connection with employee stock plans, in   2012  , the Corporation issued approximately   297 million   shares and repurchased approximately   104 million   shares of its common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations. At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had reserved   1.9 billion   unissued shares of common stock for future issuances under employee stock plans, common stock warrants, convertible notes and preferred stock.  
  Preferred Stock 
  The dividends declared on preferred stock were   $1.4 billion   for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . 
  In   2012  , the Corporation entered into various agreements with certain preferred stock and Trust Securities holders pursuant to which the Corporation and the holders of these securities agreed to exchange shares of various series of non-convertible preferred stock with a carrying value of   $296 million   and Trust Securities with a carrying value of   $760 million   for   50 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock with a fair value of   $412 million  , and   $398 million   in cash. The   $246 million   difference between the carrying value of the preferred stock and Trust Securities retired and the fair value of consideration issued was recorded in retained earnings as a   $44 million   reduction to preferred stock dividends and a   $202 million   gain in noninterest income.  
  In   2012  , the Corporation issued shares of the Corporation s Series F Preferred Stock and Series G Preferred Stock for   $633 million   under stock purchase contracts. For additional information, see Preferred Stock Summary in this Note and   Note 12   Long-term Debt  . 
  In   2011  , the Corporation entered into separate agreements with certain institutional preferred stock and Trust Securities holders (the Exchange Agreements) pursuant to which the Corporation and the holders of these securities agreed to exchange shares, or depository shares representing fractional interests in shares, of various series of the Corporation s preferred stock, par value   $0.01   per share, or Trust Securities for an aggregate of   400 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock valued at   $2.2 billion   and   $2.3 billion   aggregate principal amount of senior notes. The Exchange Agreements related to Trust Securities are described in   Note 12   Long-term Debt   and the Exchange Agreements related to preferred stock are described below. 
  As part of the Exchange Agreements, the Corporation exchanged non-convertible preferred stock, with an aggregate liquidation preference of   $815 million   and carrying value of   $814 million  , for   72 million   shares of common stock valued at   $399 million   and senior notes valued at   $231 million  . The   $184 million   difference between the carrying value of the non-convertible preferred stock and the fair value of the consideration issued to the holders of the non-convertible preferred stock was recorded in retained earnings as a non-cash reduction to preferred stock dividends. 
  Additionally, as a part of the Exchange Agreements, a portion of the Series L   7.25%   Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (Series L Preferred Stock) with an aggregate liquidation preference and carrying value of   $269 million   was exchanged for   20 million   common shares valued at   $123 million   and senior notes valued at   $129 million  . The   $17 million   difference between the carrying value of the Series L Preferred Stock and the fair value of the consideration issued to holders of the Series L  

Preferred Stock was reclassified from preferred stock to common stock and additional paid-in capital. Because the number of common shares issued to the Series L Preferred Stock holders was in excess of the number of common shares issuable pursuant to the original conversion terms, the   $220 million   fair value of consideration transferred to the Series L Preferred Stock holders in excess of the   $32 million   fair value of securities issuable pursuant to the original conversion terms was recorded as a non-cash preferred stock dividend. The dividend did not impact total  
  shareholders  equity since it reduced retained earnings and increased common stock and additional paid-in capital by the same amount.  
  The table below lists the aggregate liquidation value of each series of preferred stock exchanged in   2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Amounts shown are before third-party issuance costs. 
               (2)    
    Carrying value of preferred stock exchanged was   $1,379 million  . 

The Series T Preferred Stock issued as part of the Berkshire investment has a liquidation value of   $100,000   per share and dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock accrue on the liquidation value at a rate per annum of   six percent   but will be paid only when and if declared by the Board out of legally available funds. Subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Series T Preferred Stock may be redeemed by the Corporation at any time at a redemption price of   $105,000   per share plus any accrued, unpaid dividends. The Series T Preferred Stock has no maturity date and ranks senior to the outstanding common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions in liquidation. At any time when dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock have not been paid in full, the unpaid amounts will accrue dividends at a rate per annum of   eight percent   and the Corporation will not be permitted to pay dividends or other distributions on, or to repurchase, any outstanding common stock or any of the Corporation s outstanding preferred stock of any series. Following payment in full of accrued but unpaid dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock, the dividend rate remains at   eight percent   per annum.  

The table below presents a summary of perpetual preferred stock previously issued by the Corporation and outstanding at   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    Amounts shown are before third-party issuance costs and other Merrill Lynch purchase accounting related adjustments of   $299 million  . 
               (2)   
    Series B Preferred Stock does not have early redemption/call rights. 
               (3)   
    The Corporation may redeem series of preferred stock on or after the redemption date, in whole or in part, at its option, at the liquidation preference plus declared and unpaid dividends. 
               (4)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. 
                 (7)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. 
               (8)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. 
               (9)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a semi-annual cash dividend, if and when declared, until the redemption date adjusts to a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared, thereafter. 
     n/a = not applicable 

Series L Preferred Stock listed in the Preferred Stock Summary table does not have early redemption/call rights. Each share of the Series L Preferred Stock may be converted at any time, at the option of the holder, into   20   shares of the Corporation s common stock plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. The Corporation may cause some or all of the Series L Preferred Stock, at its option, at any time or from time to time, to be converted into shares of common stock at the then-applicable conversion rate if, for   20   trading days during any period of   30   consecutive trading days, the closing price of common stock exceeds   130 percent   of the then-applicable conversion price of the Series L Preferred Stock. If a conversion of Series L Preferred Stock occurs subsequent to a dividend record date but prior to the dividend payment date, the Corporation will still pay any accrued dividends payable. 
  All series of preferred stock in the Preferred Stock Summary table have a par value of   $0.01   per share, are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund, have no participation rights, and with the exception of the Series L Preferred Stock, are not convertible. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series 1 through  

8 Preferred Stock have general voting rights, and the holders of the other series included in the table have no general voting rights. All outstanding series of preferred stock of the Corporation have preference over the Corporation s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of the Corporation s assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution. With the exception of the Series T Preferred Stock, if any dividend payable on these series is in arrears for   three   or more semi-annual or   six   or more quarterly dividend periods, as applicable (whether consecutive or not), the holders of these series and any other class or series of preferred stock ranking equally as to payment of dividends and upon which equivalent voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting as a single class), will be entitled to vote for the election of   two   additional directors. These voting rights terminate when the Corporation has paid in full dividends on these series for at least   two   semi-annual or   four   quarterly dividend periods, as applicable, following the dividend arrearage. 

NOTE 15     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  The table below presents the changes in accumulated OCI after-tax for   2010  ,   2011   and   2012  . 

(1)   
    Net change in fair value represents after-tax adjustments based on the final year-end actuarial valuations. For more information on employee benefit plans, see   Note 18   Employee Benefit Plans  . 
               (2)   
    Net change in fair value represents the impact of changes in spot foreign exchange rates on the Corporation s net investment in non-U.S. operations, and related hedges. 
     The table below presents the before- and after-tax changes in accumulated OCI for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . 

NOTE 16   Earnings Per Common Share 
  The calculation of EPS and diluted EPS for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   is presented below. See   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   for additional information on the calculation of EPS. 

(1)   
    Includes incremental shares from RSUs, restricted stock, stock options and warrants. 
       For   2012   and   2011  ,   62 million   and   66 million   average dilutive potential common shares associated with the Series L Preferred Stock were not included in the diluted share count because the result would have been antidilutive under the  if-converted  method. For   2010  ,   107 million   average dilutive potential common shares associated with the Series L Preferred Stock, and the mandatory convertible Preferred Stock Series 2 and Series 3 of Merrill Lynch were not included in the diluted share count because the result would have been antidilutive under the  if-converted  method. For   2012   and   2011  ,   700 million   and   234 million   average dilutive potential common shares associated with the Series T Preferred Stock were not included in the diluted share count because the result would have been antidilutive under the  if-converted  method. For   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , average options to purchase   163 million  ,   217 million   and   271 million   shares, respectively, of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of EPS because the result would have been antidilutive under the treasury stock method. For   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , average warrants to purchase   272 million   shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of EPS because the result would have been antidilutive under the treasury stock method.  
  Due to the net loss applicable to common shareholders for   2010  ,   no   dilutive potential common shares were included in the calculation of diluted EPS because they would have been antidilutive. 
  In   2012   and   2011  , in connection with the exchanges described in   Note 14   Shareholders  Equity  , the Corporation recorded a   $44 million   reduction to preferred stock dividends and a net   $36 million   non-cash preferred stock dividend which are included in the calculation of net income allocated to common shareholders. 

NOTE 17   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions 
  The Corporation manages regulatory capital to adhere to internal capital guidelines and regulatory standards of capital adequacy based on its current understanding of the rules and the application of such rules to its business as currently conducted.  
  The Federal Reserve, OCC (Office of the Comptroller of the Currency) and FDIC (collectively, joint agencies) have in place regulatory capital guidelines for U.S. banking organizations. The regulatory capital guidelines measure capital in relation to the credit and market risks of both on- and off-balance sheet items using various risk weights. Under the regulatory capital guidelines, Total capital consists of three tiers of capital. Tier 1 capital includes the sum of  core capital elements,  the principal components of which are qualifying common shareholders  equity and qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Also included in Tier 1 capital are qualifying trust preferred securities (Trust Securities), hybrid securities and qualifying noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries which are subject to the rules governing  restricted core capital elements.  Goodwill, other disallowed intangible assets, disallowed deferred tax assets and the cumulative changes in fair value of all financial liabilities accounted for under the fair value option that are included in retained earnings and are attributable to changes in the company s own creditworthiness are deducted from the sum of core capital elements. Tier 2 capital consists of qualifying subordinated debt, a limited portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses, a portion of net unrealized gains on AFS marketable equity securities and other adjustments. Tier 3 capital includes subordinated debt that is unsecured, fully paid, has an original maturity of at least two years, is not redeemable before maturity without prior approval by the Federal Reserve and includes a lock-in clause precluding payment of either interest or principal if the payment would cause the issuing bank s risk-based capital ratio to fall or remain below the required minimum. Tier 3 capital can only be used to satisfy the Corporation s market risk capital requirement and may not be used to support its credit risk requirement. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation had   no   subordinated debt that qualified as  

Tier 3 capital. Total capital for the Corporation is Tier 1 capital plus supplementary Tier 2 capital.  
  To meet minimum, adequately capitalized regulatory requirements, an institution must maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of   four percent   and a Total capital ratio of   eight percent  . A  well-capitalized  institution must generally maintain capital ratios   200   bps higher than the minimum guidelines. The risk-based capital rules have been further supplemented by a Tier 1 leverage ratio, defined as Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, after certain adjustments. BHCs must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least   four percent  . National banks must maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least   five percent   to be classified as  well-capitalized.  Failure to meet the capital requirements established by the joint agencies can lead to certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation s financial position. At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation s Tier 1 capital, Total capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios were   12.89 percent  ,   16.31 percent   and   7.37 percent  , respectively. 

Current guidelines restrict certain core capital elements to   15   percent of total core capital elements for internationally active BHCs. Internationally active BHCs are those that have significant activities in non-U.S. markets with consolidated assets greater than   $250 billion   or on-balance sheet non-U.S. exposure greater than   $10 billion  , which includes the Corporation. In addition, the Federal Reserve revised the qualitative standards for capital instruments included in regulatory capital. At   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation s restricted core capital elements comprised   3.6 percent   of total core capital elements. The Corporation is and expects to remain in compliance with the revised guidelines. 
  Tier 1 common capital is not an official regulatory ratio, but was introduced by the Federal Reserve during the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program in 2009. Tier 1 common capital is Tier 1 capital less preferred stock, Trust Securities, hybrid securities and qualifying noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries. The Corporation s Tier 1 common capital was   $133.4 billion   and   $126.7 billion   and the Tier 1 common capital ratio was   11.06 percent   and   9.86 percent   at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 
  The table below presents actual and minimum required regulatory capital amounts for   2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    Dollar amount required to meet guidelines for well-capitalized institutions. 
     n/a = not applicable 
    The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the rules governing the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The CCAR is the central element of the Federal Reserve s approach to ensuring large BHCs have adequate capital and robust processes for managing their capital. Requests for capital actions by a BHC must be reviewed on an annual basis by the Federal Reserve. In January 2012, the Corporation submitted its 2012 capital plan and the Federal Reserve did not object to the Corporation s 2012 capital plan. On January 7, 2013, the Corporation submitted its 2013 capital plan and related supervisory stress tests. The Federal Reserve has announced its intention to notify the 2013 CCAR participants of the supervisory stress test results on March 7, 2013 and the capital plan on March 14, 2013. 

Regulatory Capital Developments 
  At December 31, 2012, the Corporation measured and reported its capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 1 and the regulatory capital rules continue to expand and evolve. In June 2012, U.S. banking regulators issued the Market Risk Final Rule that amends the Basel 1 Market Risk rules (Market Risk Final Rule) which were effective January 1, 2013. The Market Risk Final Rule introduces new measures of market risk, a stressed Value-at-Risk charge, an incremental risk charge and a comprehensive risk measure, as well as other technical modifications. 
  In December 2007, U.S. banking regulators published final Basel 2 rules (Basel 2). Basel 2 provides detailed requirements for a new regulatory capital framework related to credit and operational risk, supervisory requirements and disclosure requirements. Under Basel 2, market risk is measured consistent with Basel 1 guidelines, in accordance with the Market Risk Final  

Rule. The Corporation measures and reports its capital ratios and related information under Basel 2 on a confidential basis to U.S. banking regulators during the required parallel period which will continue until the Corporation receives regulatory approval to exit parallel reporting and subsequently begin publicly reporting Basel 2 regulatory capital results and related disclosures. 
  In June 2012, U.S. banking regulators issued three notices of proposed rulemaking (collectively, the Basel 3 NPRs), which, if adopted as proposed, would materially change Tier 1 common, Tier 1 and Total capital calculations, introduce new minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements, expand and modify the calculation of risk-weighted assets for credit and market risk (the Advanced Approach) and introduce a Standardized Approach for the calculation of risk-weighted assets, which would replace Basel 1 and provide a floor for minimum, adequately capitalized regulatory capital requirements under the Prompt Corrective Action framework. The Prompt Corrective Action framework establishes categories of capitalization, including  well-capitalized,  based on regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization. No mandatory actions are required under the Prompt Corrective Action framework for  well-capitalized  banking entities. 
  Under the Basel 3 NPRs, Trust Securities will be phased out of Tier 1 capital in equal annual installments over a three-year transition period. Many of the changes to the composition of regulatory capital are subject to a transition period where the impact is recognized in 20 percent increments, phased in incrementally each year over a five-year period. The majority of the other aspects of the Advanced Approach were proposed to become effective on January 1, 2013. The phase-in period for the new minimum capital requirements and related buffers is proposed to occur from the effective date of the Basel 3 NPRs through 2019. U.S. banking regulators announced that they did not expect any of the Basel 3 NPRs to become effective January 1, 2013. Final rules for Basel 3 have not yet been issued by U.S. banking regulators. 
  Under the Basel 3 NPRs the Corporation will be subject to the Advanced Approach for measuring risk-weighted assets (Basel 3 Advanced Approach) when finalized and implemented. The Basel 3 Advanced Approach also requires approval by the U.S. regulatory agencies of analytical models used as part of capital measurement. If these models are not approved, it would likely lead to an increase in the Corporation s risk-weighted assets, which in some cases could be significant. The Basel 3 Advanced Approach, if adopted as proposed, is expected to substantially increase the Corporation s capital requirements. 
  In 2011, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued guidance on capital requirements for global, systemically important financial institutions, including the methodology for measuring systemic importance (the SIFI buffer), and the arrangements by which the guidance will be phased in. As proposed, the SIFI buffer would increase minimum capital requirements for Tier 1 common capital from   one percent   to   2.5 percent  , and in certain circumstances,   3.5 percent  . U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued proposed or final rules related to the SIFI buffer. 
  On December 20, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement enhanced supervisory and prudential requirements and the early remediation requirements established under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The enhanced standards include risk-based capital and  

leverage requirements, liquidity standards, requirements for overall risk management, single-counterparty credit limits, stress test requirements and a debt-to-equity limit for certain companies determined to pose a threat to financial stability. The final rules are likely to influence regulatory capital and liquidity planning processes, and may impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation. 
  Other Regulatory Requirements 
  The Federal Reserve requires the Corporation s banking subsidiaries to maintain reserve balances based on a percentage of certain deposits. Average daily reserve balances required by the Federal Reserve were   $16.3 billion   and   $14.6 billion   for   2012   and   2011  . Currency and coin residing in branches and cash vaults (vault cash) are used to partially satisfy the reserve requirement. The average daily reserve balances, in excess of vault cash, held with the Federal Reserve amounted to   $7.9 billion   and   $6.5 billion   for   2012   and   2011  . As of   December 31, 2012  , the Corporation had cash in the amount of   $8.5 billion   and securities with a fair value of   $5.9 billion   that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. 
  The primary sources of funds for cash distributions by the Corporation to its shareholders are capital distributions received from its banking subsidiaries, BANA and FIA. In   2012  , the Corporation received   $14.1 billion   in dividends from BANA and FIA, and returned capital of   $6.6 billion   to the Corporation. In   2013  , BANA can declare and pay dividends to the Corporation equal to their retained net profits for   2013   up to the date of any dividend declaration. The other subsidiary national banks paid   $1.6 billion   in dividends to the Corporation in   2012   and can pay dividends in aggregate of   $203 million   in   2013   plus an additional amount equal to their retained net profits for   2013   up to the date of any such dividend declaration. The amount of dividends that each subsidiary bank may declare in a calendar year is the subsidiary bank s net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared during the period. 
    NOTE 18   Employee Benefit Plans 
  Pension and Postretirement Plans 
  The Corporation sponsors noncontributory trusteed pension plans, a number of noncontributory nonqualified pension plans, and postretirement health and life plans that cover eligible employees. As discussed below, certain of the pension plans were amended, effective June 30, 2012, to freeze benefits earned. The plans provide defined benefits based on an employee s compensation and years of service. The Bank of America Pension Plan (the Pension Plan) provides participants with compensation credits, generally based on years of service. For account balances based on compensation credits prior to January 1, 2008, the Pension Plan allows participants to select from various earnings measures, which are based on the returns of certain funds or common stock of the Corporation. The participant-selected earnings measures determine the earnings rate on the individual participant account balances in the Pension Plan. Participants may elect to modify earnings measure allocations on a periodic basis subject to the provisions of the Pension Plan. For account balances based on compensation credits subsequent to December 31, 2007, the account balance earnings rate is based on a benchmark rate. For eligible employees in the Pension Plan on or after January 1, 2008,  

the benefits become vested upon completion of three years of service. It is the policy of the Corporation to fund no less than the minimum funding amount required by ERISA. 
  The Pension Plan has a balance guarantee feature for account balances with participant-selected earnings, applied at the time a benefit payment is made from the plan that effectively provides principal protection for participant balances transferred and certain compensation credits. The Corporation is responsible for funding any shortfall on the guarantee feature. 
  As a result of acquisitions, the Corporation assumed the obligations related to the pension plans of certain legacy companies. These acquired pension plans have been merged into a separate defined benefit pension plan which, together with the Pension Plan, are referred to as the Qualified Pension Plans. The benefit structures under these acquired plans have not changed and remain intact in the merged plan. Certain benefit structures are substantially similar to the Pension Plan discussed above; however, certain of these structures do not allow participants to select various earnings measures; rather the earnings rate is based on a benchmark rate. In addition, these benefit structures include participants with benefits determined under formulas based on average or career compensation and years of service rather than by reference to a pension account. Certain of the other benefit structures provide a participant s retirement benefits based on the number of years of benefit service and a percentage of the participant s average annual compensation during the five highest paid consecutive years of the last ten years of employment. 
  In connection with a redesign of the Corporation s retirement plans, on January 24, 2012, the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board approved amendments to freeze benefits earned in the Qualified Pension Plans effective June 30, 2012. As a result of freezing the Qualified Pension Plans, a curtailment was triggered and a remeasurement of the qualified pension obligations and plan assets occurred as of January 24, 2012. As of the remeasurement date, the plan assets had increased in value from the prior measurement date resulting in an increase in the funded status of the plan of   $431 million  . Additionally, the curtailment impact reduced the projected benefit obligation by   $889 million  . The combined impact resulted in a   $1.3 billion   increase to the net pension assets recognized in other assets and a corresponding decrease in unrecognized losses in accumulated OCI of   $1.3 billion   (  $832 million   after-tax). The impact of the immediate recognition of the prior service cost of   $58 million   was recorded in personnel expense as a curtailment loss in   2012  . All economic assumptions were consistent with the prior year end including the weighted-average discount rate of   4.95 percent   used for remeasurement of the qualified pension plans. 
  As a result of freezing the Qualified Pension Plans, the amortization period for actuarial gains and losses was changed from the average working life to the estimated average lifetime of benefits being paid. In addition, in   2013  , the long-term expected return on asset assumption for the Qualified Pension Plans was reduced to   6.5 percent   from   8.0 percent   to reflect current market conditions and long-term financial goals. The reduction in net pension costs in 2013 due to these assumption changes is not expected to be significant. 

The Corporation assumed the obligations related to the plans of Merrill Lynch. These plans include a terminated U.S. pension plan (the Other Pension Plan), non-U.S. pension plans, nonqualified pension plans and postretirement plans. The non-U.S. pension plans vary based on the country and local practices. 
  The Corporation has an annuity contract, previously purchased by Merrill Lynch, that guarantees the payment of benefits vested under the Other Pension Plan. The Corporation, under a supplemental agreement, may be responsible for, or benefit from actual experience and investment performance of the annuity assets. The Corporation made no contribution under this agreement in   2012   or   2011  . Contributions may be required in the future under this agreement. 
  The Corporation sponsors a number of noncontributory, nonqualified pension plans (the Nonqualified Pension Plans). As a result of acquisitions, the Corporation assumed the obligations related to the noncontributory, nonqualified pension plans of certain legacy companies including Merrill Lynch. These plans, which are unfunded, provide defined pension benefits to certain employees. 
  In addition to retirement pension benefits, full-time, salaried employees and certain part-time employees may become eligible to continue participation as retirees in health care and/or life insurance plans sponsored by the Corporation. Based on the other provisions of the individual plans, certain retirees may also have the cost of these benefits partially paid by the Corporation. The obligations assumed as a result of acquisitions are substantially similar to the Corporation s postretirement health and life plans, except for Countrywide which did not have a postretirement health and life plan. Collectively, these plans are referred to as the Postretirement Health and Life Plans. 
  The Pension and Postretirement Plans table summarizes the changes in the fair value of plan assets, changes in the projected benefit obligation (PBO), the funded status of both the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and the PBO, and the weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the pension plans and postretirement plans at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . Amounts recognized at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are reflected in other assets, and accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The discount rate assumption is based on a cash flow matching technique and is subject to change each year. This technique utilizes yield curves that are based on Aa-rated corporate bonds with cash flows that match estimated benefit payments of each of the plans to produce the discount rate assumptions. The asset valuation method for the Qualified Pension Plans recognizes   60 percent   of the prior year s market gains or losses at the next measurement date with the remaining   40 percent   spread equally over the subsequent four years. 
  The Corporation s best estimate of its contributions to be made to the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans in   2013   is   $109 million  ,   $103 million   and   $107 million  , respectively. The Corporation does not expect to make a contribution to the Qualified Pension Plans in   2013  . 

(1)   
    The measurement date for the Qualified Pension Plans, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans was   December 31   of each year reported. 
     n/a = not applicable 
  Amounts recognized in the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are presented in the table below. 

Pension Plans with ABO and PBO in excess of plan assets as of   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are presented in the table below. For the non-qualified plans not subject to ERISA or non-U.S. pension plans, funding strategies vary due to legal requirements and local practices. 

Net periodic benefit cost of the Corporation s plans for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   included the following components. 

(1)   
    Includes nonqualified pension plans and the terminated Merrill Lynch U.S. pension plan. 
     n/a = not applicable 
    Net periodic postretirement health and life expense was determined using the  projected unit credit  actuarial method. Gains and losses for all benefits except postretirement health care are recognized in accordance with the standard amortization provisions of the applicable accounting guidance. For the Postretirement Health Care Plans,   50 percent   of the unrecognized gain or loss at the beginning of the fiscal year (or at subsequent remeasurement) is recognized on a level basis during the year. 

The discount rate and expected return on plan assets impact the net periodic benefit cost (income) recorded for the plans. With all other assumptions held constant, a 25 bps decline in the discount rate would not have a significant impact while a 25 bps decline in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of approximately   $33 million   for the Qualified Pension Plans. For the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, the Nonqualified and Other  

Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans, the 25 bps decline in rates would not have a significant impact. 
  Assumed health care cost trend rates affect the postretirement benefit obligation and benefit cost reported for the Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the Postretirement Health and Life Plans was   7.50 percent   for   2013  , reducing in steps to   5.00 percent   in 2019 and later years. A one-percentage-point increase in assumed health care cost trend rates  

would have increased the service and interest costs, and the benefit obligation by   $3 million   and   $59 million   in   2012  . A one-percentage-point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would have lowered the service and interest costs, and the benefit obligation by   $3 million   and   $52 million   in   2012  . 
  Pre-tax amounts included in accumulated OCI for employee benefit plans at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are presented in the table below. 

Pre-tax amounts recognized in OCI for employee benefit plans in   2012   included the following components. 

The estimated pre-tax amounts that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into expense in   2013   are presented in the table below. 

Estimated Pre-tax Amounts from Accumulated OCI into Period Cost 

(Dollars in millions) 
    Qualified 
  Pension Plans 
      
    Non-U.S. 
  Pension Plans 
      
    Nonqualified and Other 
  Pension Plans 
      
    Postretirement Health and 
  Life Plans 
      
    Total 
      Net actuarial loss (gain) 
    $ 
    284 

$ 
    4 

$ 
    26 

$ 
    (20 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    294 
      
      Prior service cost 

1 

4 

5 
      
      Total amortized from accumulated OCI 
    $ 
    284 

$ 
    5 

$ 
    26 

$ 
    (16 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    299 

Plan Assets 
  The Qualified Pension Plans have been established as retirement vehicles for participants, and trusts have been established to secure benefits promised under the Qualified Pension Plans. The Corporation s policy is to invest the trust assets in a prudent manner for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and defraying reasonable expenses of administration. The Corporation s investment strategy is designed to provide a total return that, over the long term, increases the ratio of assets to liabilities. The strategy attempts to maximize the investment return on assets at a level of risk deemed appropriate by the Corporation while complying with ERISA and any applicable regulations and laws. The investment strategy utilizes asset allocation as a principal determinant for establishing the risk/return profile of the assets. Asset allocation ranges are established, periodically reviewed and adjusted as funding levels and liability characteristics change. Active and passive investment managers are employed to help enhance the risk/return profile of the assets. An additional aspect of the investment strategy used to minimize risk (part of the asset allocation plan) includes matching the equity exposure of participant-selected earnings measures. For example, the common stock of the Corporation held in the trust is maintained as an offset to the exposure related to participants who elected to receive an earnings measure based on the return performance of common stock of the Corporation. No plan assets are expected to be returned to the Corporation during   2013  . 
  The assets of the Non-U.S. Pension Plans are primarily attributable to a U.K. pension plan. This U.K. pension plan s assets  

are invested prudently so that the benefits promised to members are provided with consideration given to the nature and the duration of the plan s liabilities. The current investment strategy was set following an asset-liability study and advice from the trustee s investment advisors. The selected asset allocation strategy is designed to achieve a higher return than the lowest risk strategy while maintaining a prudent approach to meeting the plan s liabilities. 
  The expected return on asset assumption was developed through analysis of historical market returns, historical asset class volatility and correlations, current market conditions, anticipated future asset allocations, the funds  past experience, and expectations on potential future market returns. The expected return on asset assumption is determined using the calculated market-related value for the Qualified Pension Plans and the Other Pension Plan and the fair value for the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The expected return on asset assumption represents a long-term average view of the performance of the assets in the Qualified Pension Plans, the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, the Other Pension Plan, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a return that may or may not be achieved during any one calendar year. The terminated U.S. Pension Plan is invested solely in an annuity contract which is primarily invested in fixed-income securities structured such that asset maturities match the duration of the plan s obligations. 
  The target allocations for   2013   by asset category for the Qualified Pension Plans, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below. 

Equity securities for the Qualified Pension Plans include common stock of the Corporation in the amounts of   $156 million   (  0.96 percent   of total plan assets) and   $82 million   (  0.55 percent   of total plan assets) at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  . 

Fair Value Measurements 
  For information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methods employed by the Corporation, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements  . 

Plan investment assets measured at fair value by level and in total at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are summarized in the Fair Value Measurements table. 

The Level 3 Fair Value Measurements table presents a reconciliation of all plan investment assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . 

Projected Benefit Payments 
  Benefit payments projected to be made from the Qualified Pension Plans, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below. 

(1)   
    Benefit payments expected to be made from the plans  assets. 
               (2)   
    Benefit payments expected to be made from a combination of the plans  and the Corporation s assets. 
               (3)   
    Benefit payments (net of retiree contributions) expected to be made from a combination of the plans  and the Corporation s assets. 

Defined Contribution Plans 
  The Corporation maintains qualified defined contribution retirement plans and nonqualified defined contribution retirement plans. As a result of the Merrill Lynch acquisition, the Corporation also maintains the defined contribution plans of Merrill Lynch which include the 401(k) Savings   Investment Plan (SIP), the Retirement and Accumulation Plan and the Employee Stock Ownership Plan. In   2012  , these plans were merged with the SIP being the successor plan and is closed to new participants with certain exceptions. The Corporation contributed   $886 million  ,   $723 million   and   $670 million   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively, in cash to the qualified defined contribution plans. In connection with the redesign of the Corporation s retirement plans, an additional annual contribution will be made to certain of these plans. The expense in   2012   related to the additional annual contribution was   $174 million  . At   December 31, 2012 and 2011  ,   235 million   shares and   232 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock were held by these plans. Payments to the plans for dividends on common stock were   $10 million  ,   $9 million   and   $8 million   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. 
  Certain non-U.S. employees are covered under defined contribution pension plans that are separately administered in accordance with local laws. 
    NOTE 19   Stock-based Compensation Plans 
  The Corporation administers a number of equity compensation plans, including the Key Employee Stock Plan, the Key Associate Stock Plan and the Merrill Lynch Employee Stock Compensation Plan. Descriptions of the significant features of the equity compensation plans are below. Under these plans, the Corporation grants stock-based awards, including stock options, restricted stock and RSUs. Grants in   2012   include RSUs which generally vest in   three   equal annual installments beginning one year from the grant date, awards of restricted stock that were vested and released from restrictions on the grant date and certain awards which will vest subject to the attainment of specified performance goals. 
  For most awards, expense is generally recognized ratably over the vesting period net of estimated forfeitures, unless the employee meets certain retirement eligibility criteria. For awards to employees that meet retirement eligibility criteria, the Corporation records the expense upon grant. For employees that become retirement eligible during the vesting period, the Corporation recognizes expense from the grant date to the date on which the employee becomes retirement eligible, net of estimated forfeitures. The compensation cost for the stock-based plans was   $2.3 billion  ,   $2.6 billion   and   $2.0 billion   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. The related income tax benefit was   $839 million  ,   $969 million   and   $727 million   for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , respectively. 
  Key Employee Stock Plan 
  The Key Employee Stock Plan, as amended and restated, provided for different types of awards including stock options, restricted stock and RSUs. Under the plan, 10-year options to purchase approximately   260 million   shares of common stock were granted through   December 31, 2002   to certain employees at the closing market price on the respective grant dates. At   December 31, 2012  , there were   no   outstanding awards remaining under this plan and   no   further awards may be granted. 

Key Associate Stock Plan 
  The Key Associate Stock Plan became effective   January 1, 2003  . It provides for different types of awards, including stock options, restricted stock and RSUs. As of   December 31, 2012  , the shareholders had authorized approximately   1.1 billion   shares for grant under this plan. Additionally, any shares covered by awards under the Key Employee Stock Plan or certain legacy company plans that cancel, terminate, expire, lapse or settle in cash after a specified date may be re-granted under the Key Associate Stock Plan. 
  During   2012  , the Corporation issued   290 million   RSUs to certain employees under the Key Associate Stock Plan. Certain awards are earned based on the achievement of specified performance criteria. RSUs may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock depending on the terms of the applicable award. In   2012  ,   7 million   of these RSUs were authorized to be settled in shares of common stock with the remainder in cash only. Certain awards contain clawback provisions which permit the Corporation to cancel all or a portion of the award under specified circumstances. The compensation cost for cash-settled awards and awards subject to certain clawback provisions, which in the aggregate represent substantially all of the awards in   2012  , is accrued over the vesting period and adjusted to fair value based upon changes in the share price of the Corporation s common stock.  
  From time to time, the Corporation enters into equity total return swaps to hedge a portion of RSUs granted to certain employees as part of their compensation in prior periods to minimize the change in the expense to the Corporation driven by fluctuations in the fair value of the RSUs. Certain of these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges of unrecognized unvested awards with the changes in fair value of the hedge recorded in accumulated OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period as the RSUs affect earnings. The remaining derivatives are used to hedge the price risk of cash-settled awards with changes in fair value recorded in personnel expense. 
  At   December 31, 2012  , approximately   130 million   options were outstanding under this plan. There were   no   options granted under this plan during   2012  ,   2011   or   2010  . 
  Merrill Lynch Employee Stock Compensation Plan 
  The Corporation assumed the Merrill Lynch Employee Stock Compensation Plan with the acquisition of Merrill Lynch. Approximately   8 million   RSUs were granted in   2011   which generally vest in   three   equal annual installments beginning one year from the grant date. There were   no   shares granted under this plan during   2012   or   2010  . At   December 31, 2012  , there were approximately   5 million   unvested shares outstanding. 
  Other Stock Plans 
  As a result of the Merrill Lynch acquisition, the Corporation assumed the obligations of outstanding awards granted under the Merrill Lynch Financial Advisor Capital Accumulation Award Plan (FACAAP) and the Merrill Lynch Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The FACAAP is no longer an active plan and   no   awards were granted in   2012  ,   2011   or   2010  . Awards granted in 2003 and thereafter are generally payable   eight   years from the grant date in a fixed number of the Corporation s common shares. For outstanding awards granted prior to 2003, payment is generally made   10   years from the grant date in a fixed number of the Corporation s common shares unless the fair value of such shares  

is less than a specified minimum value, in which case the minimum value is paid in cash. At   December 31, 2012  , there were   11 million   shares outstanding under this plan. 
  The ESPP was discontinued on March 31, 2012. The final discounted purchase was made on April 13, 2012. The ESPP allowed eligible employees to invest from   one percent   to   10 percent   of eligible compensation to purchase the Corporation s common stock, subject to legal limits. Purchases were made at a discount of   five percent   of the average high and low market price on the relevant purchase date and the maximum annual contribution per employee was   $23,750   in   2012  .  
  The weighted-average fair value of the ESPP stock purchase rights representing the   five percent   discount on the Corporation s common stock purchases exercised by employees in   2012   was   $0.39   per stock purchase right. 
  Restricted Stock/Units  
  The table below presents the status of the share-settled restricted stock/units at   December 31, 2012   and changes during   2012  . 

Of the   197 million   share-settled shares/units granted above,   190 million   were granted as awards of restricted stock shares that vested and were released from restrictions on the grant date. 
  The table below presents the status at   December 31, 2012   of the cash-settled RSUs granted under the Key Associate Stock Plan and changes during   2012  . 

At   December 31, 2012  , there was   $1.7 billion   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements for all awards and it is expected to be recognized over a period up to   seven   years, with a weighted-average period of   .5   years. The total fair value of restricted stock vested in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   was   $2.9 billion  ,   $1.7 billion   and   $2.4 billion  , respectively. In   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   the amount of cash paid to settle equity-based awards for all equity compensation plans was   $779 million  ,   $489 million   and   $186 million  , respectively. 
  Stock Options 
  The table below presents the status of all option plans at   December 31, 2012   and changes during   2012  . Outstanding options at   December 31, 2012   include   130 million   options under the Key Associate Stock Plan and   25 million   options to employees of predecessor company plans assumed in mergers. 

(1)   
    Includes vested shares and nonvested shares after a forfeiture rate is applied. 
     At   December 31, 2012  , there was   no   aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding, exercisable, and vested and expected to vest. The weighted-average remaining contractual term of options outstanding, exercisable, and vested and expected to vest was   2.4   years at   December 31, 2012  . These remaining contractual terms are the same because options have not been granted since 2008 and they generally vest over   three   years. 

NOTE 20   Income Taxes 
  The components of income tax expense (benefit) for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   are presented in the table below.  

Total income tax expense (benefit) does not reflect the deferred tax effects of unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities, foreign currency translation adjustments, derivatives and employee benefit plan adjustments that are included in accumulated OCI. As a result of these tax effects, accumulated OCI decreased   $1.3 billion   and   $3.2 billion   in   2012   and   2010  , and increased   $2.9 billion   in   2011  . In addition, total income tax expense (benefit) does not reflect tax effects associated with the Corporation s employee stock plans which decreased common stock and additional paid-in capital   $277 million   and   $98 million   in   2012   and   2010  , and increased common stock and additional paid-in capital   $19 million   in   2011  . 
  Income tax expense (benefit) for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   varied from the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to income (loss) before income taxes. A reconciliation of the expected U.S. federal income tax expense applying the federal statutory tax rate of   35 percent   to the Corporation s actual income tax expense (benefit) and resulting effective tax rate for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   are presented in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense (Benefit) table. 

(1)    
    Includes in   2012  ,   $1.7 billion   income tax benefit attributable to the   excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability. 
     n/m = not meaningful 
  The reconciliation of the beginning unrecognized tax benefits (UTB) balance to the ending balance is presented in the table below. 

(1)   
    The sum per year of positions taken during prior years differs from the   $198 million  ,   $239 million   and   $349 million   in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense (Benefit) table due to temporary items and jurisdictional offsets, as well as the inclusion of interest in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense (Benefit) table. 

At   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , the balance of the Corporation s UTBs which would, if recognized, affect the Corporation s effective tax rate was   $3.1 billion  ,   $3.3 billion   and   $3.4 billion  , respectively. Included in the UTB balance are some items the recognition of which would not affect the effective tax rate, such as the tax effect of certain temporary differences, the portion of gross state UTBs that would be offset by the tax benefit of the associated federal deduction and the portion of gross non-U.S. UTBs that would be offset by tax reductions in other jurisdictions. 
  The Corporation files income tax returns in more than   100   state and non-U.S. jurisdictions each year. The IRS and other tax authorities in countries and states in which the Corporation has significant business operations examine tax returns periodically (continuously in some jurisdictions). The Tax Examination Status table summarizes the status of significant examinations (U.S. federal unless otherwise noted) for the Corporation and various subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    All tax years subsequent to the years shown remain open to examination. 
     During   2012  , the Corporation and the IRS continued to make progress toward resolving all federal income tax examinations for Bank of America Corporation tax years through   2009   and Merrill Lynch tax years through   2008  . While subject to final agreement, including review by the Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress for certain years, the Corporation believes that these examinations may be concluded during   2013  . 
  Considering all examinations, it is reasonably possible that the UTB balance may decrease by as much as   $2.6 billion   during the next twelve months, since resolved items will be removed from the balance whether their resolution results in payment or recognition. If such decrease were to occur, it likely would primarily result from outcomes consistent with management expectations. 
  During   2012  , the Corporation recognized a   $99 million   expense and, in   2011  , a benefit of   $168 million   for interest and penalties, net-of-tax, in income tax benefit. At   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , the Corporation s accrual for interest and penalties that related to income taxes, net of taxes and remittances, was   $775 million   and   $787 million  . 

Significant components of the Corporation s net deferred tax assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   are presented in the Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities table. 

The table below summarizes the deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances recognized for the NOL and tax credit carryforwards at   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    The U.K. net operating losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 
               (2)   
    The net operating losses and related valuation allowances for U.S. states before considering the benefit of federal deductions were   $3.3 billion   and   $1.4 billion  . 

Management concluded that no valuation allowance is necessary to reduce the U.K. NOL carryforwards and U.S. NOL and general business credit carryforwards since estimated future taxable income will be sufficient to utilize the  se assets prior to their expiration. The majority of the Corporation s U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are realizable by certain subsidiaries that have a recent history of cumulative losses. For the deferred tax assets of those subsidiaries, the cessation of certain business activities, changes to capital and funding, forecasts of business volumes and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs represent significant positive evidence supporting management s conclusion. However, significant changes to those estimates, such as changes that would be caused by a substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe s capital markets, could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions. 
  At   December 31, 2012  , U.S. federal income taxes had not been provided on   $17.2 billion   of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that management has determined have been reinvested for an indefinite period of time. If the Corporation were to record a deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings, the amount would be approximately   $4.3 billion   at   December 31, 2012  .  
    NOTE 21   Fair Value Measurements 
  Under applicable accounting guidance, fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Corporation determines the fair values of its financial instruments based on the fair value hierarchy established under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. There are three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. The Corporation conducts a review of its fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of fair value hierarchy classifications are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For more information regarding the fair value hierarchy and how the Corporation measures fair value, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . The Corporation accounts for certain financial instruments under the fair value option. For more information, see   Note 22   Fair Value Option  . 
  Valuation Processes and Techniques 
  The Corporation has various processes and controls in place to ensure that fair value is reasonably estimated. A model validation policy governs the use and control of valuation models used to estimate fair value. This policy requires review and approval of models by personnel who are independent of the front office, and periodic re-assessments of models to ensure that they are continuing to perform as designed. In addition, detailed reviews of trading gains and losses are conducted on a daily basis by personnel who are independent of the front office. A price verification group, which is also independent of the front office, utilizes available market information including executed trades,  

market prices and market-observable valuation model inputs to ensure that fair values are reasonably estimated. The Corporation performs due diligence procedures over third-party pricing service providers in order to support their use in the valuation process. Where market information is not available to support internal valuations, independent reviews of the valuations are performed and any material exposures are escalated through a management review process. 
  While the Corporation believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. 
  During   2012  , there were no changes to the valuation techniques that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  Level 1, 2 and 3 Valuation Techniques 
  Financial instruments are considered Level 1 when the valuation is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 financial instruments are valued using quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or models using inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Financial instruments are considered Level 3 when their values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques, and at least one significant model assumption or input is unobservable and when determination of the fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 
  Trading Account Assets and Liabilities and Available-for-sale Debt Securities 
  The fair values of trading account assets and liabilities are primarily based on actively traded markets where prices are based on either direct market quotes or observed transactions. The fair values of AFS debt securities are generally based on quoted market prices or market prices for similar assets. Liquidity is a significant factor in the determination of the fair values of trading account assets and liabilities and AFS debt securities. Market price quotes may not be readily available for some positions, or positions within a market sector where trading activity has slowed significantly or ceased. Some of these instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow model, which estimates the fair value of the securities using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate management s best estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. Principal and interest cash flows are discounted using an observable discount rate for similar instruments with adjustments that management believes a market participant would consider in determining fair value for the specific security. Other instruments are valued using a net asset value approach which considers the value of the underlying securities. Underlying assets are valued using external pricing services, where available, or matrix pricing based on the vintages and ratings. Situations of illiquidity generally are triggered by the market s perception of credit uncertainty regarding a single company or a specific market sector. In these instances, fair value is determined based on limited available market information and other factors, principally from reviewing the issuer s financial statements and changes in credit ratings made by one or more rating agencies. 

Derivative Assets and Liabilities 
  The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities traded in the OTC market are determined using quantitative models that utilize multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and indices to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and volatility factors to value the position. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. When third-party pricing services are used, the methods and assumptions used are reviewed by the Corporation. Estimation risk is greater for derivative asset and liability positions that are either option-based or have longer maturity dates where observable market inputs are less readily available, or are unobservable, in which case, quantitative-based extrapolations of rate, price or index scenarios are used in determining fair values. The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities include adjustments for market liquidity, counterparty credit quality and other instrument-specific factors, where appropriate. In addition, the Corporation incorporates within its fair value measurements of OTC derivatives a valuation adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net position. Positions are netted by counterparty, and fair value for net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit risk while the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for the Corporation s own credit risk. An estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of fair value, primarily based on market data. 
  Loans and Loan Commitments 
  The fair values of loans and loan commitments are based on market prices, where available, or discounted cash flow analyses using market-based credit spreads of comparable debt instruments or credit derivatives of the specific borrower or comparable borrowers. Results of discounted cash flow calculations may be adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect other market conditions or the perceived credit risk of the borrower. 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  The fair values of MSRs are determined using models that rely on estimates of prepayment rates, the resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs and the OAS levels. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  The fair values of LHFS are based on quoted market prices, where available, or are determined by discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates approximating the Corporation s current origination rates for similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk. 

Other Assets 
  The fair values of certain debt securities and AFS marketable equity securities are generally based on quoted market prices or market prices for similar assets. However, non-public investments are initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently adjusted when evidence is available to support such adjustments.  
  Securities Financing Agreements 
  The fair values of certain reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions are determined using quantitative models, including discounted cash flow models that require the use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. 
  Deposits and Other Short-term Borrowings 
  The fair values of deposits and other short-term borrowings are determined using quantitative models, including discounted cash flow models that require the use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. The Corporation considers the impact of its own credit spreads in the valuation of these liabilities. The credit risk is determined by reference to observable credit spreads in the secondary cash market. 
  Long-term Debt 
  The Corporation issues structured liabilities that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. The fair values of these structured liabilities are estimated using quantitative models for the combined derivative and debt portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable and, in some instances, unobservable inputs including security prices, interest rate yield curves, option volatility, currency, commodity or equity rates and correlations between these inputs. The Corporation also considers the impact of its own credit spreads in determining the discount rate used to value these liabilities. The credit spread is determined by reference to observable spreads in the secondary bond market. 
  Asset-backed Secured Financings 
  The fair values of asset-backed secured financings are based on external broker bids, where available, or are determined by discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates approximating the Corporation s current origination rates for similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk. 

Recurring Fair Value 
  Assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  , including financial instruments which the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option, are summarized in the following tables. 

(1)   
    During   2012  ,   $2.0 billion   and   $350 million   of assets and liabilities were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2, and   $785 million   and   $40 million   of assets and liabilities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 1. Of the asset transfers from Level 1 to Level 2,   $940 million   was due to a restriction that became effective for a private equity investment during 2012, while   $535 million   of the transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 was due to the lapse of this restriction during 2012. The remaining transfers were the result of additional information associated with certain equities, derivative contracts and private equity investments. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
               (3)   
    For further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities, see   Note 3   Derivatives  . 

(2)   
    Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
               (3)   
    For further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities, see   Note 3   Derivatives  . 

The following tables present a reconciliation of all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , including net realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and accumulated OCI. 

(1)   
    Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase / (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) / decrease to Level 3. 
               (2)   
    During   2012  , approximately   $900 million   was reclassified from Trading account assets - Corporate securities, trading loans and other to Trading account assets - Mortgage trading loans and ABS. In the table above, this reclassification is presented as a sale of Trading account assets - Corporate securities, trading loans and other and as a purchase of Trading account assets - Mortgage trading loans and ABS. 
               (3)   
    Net derivatives include derivative assets of   $8.1 billion   and derivative liabilities of   $6.6 billion  . 
               (4)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (5)   
    Issuances represent loan originations and mortgage servicing rights retained following securitizations or whole loan sales. 
               (6)   
    Other assets is primarily comprised of net monoline exposure to a single counterparty and private equity investments. 
       During   2012  , the transfers into Level 3 included   $1.4 billion   of trading account assets,   $269 million   of net derivative assets,   $450 million   of loans and leases, and   $2.0 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers into Level 3 for trading account assets were primarily the result of decreased market liquidity for certain corporate loans and updated information related to certain CLOs. Transfers into Level 3 for net derivative assets primarily related to decreased price observability for certain long-dated equity derivative liabilities due to a lack of independent pricing. Transfers into Level 3 for loans and leases were due to updated information related to certain commercial loans. Transfers into Level 3 for long-term debt were primarily due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of certain structured liabilities. Transfers occur on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 

During   2012  , the transfers out of Level 3 included   $1.2 billion   of trading account assets,   $461 million   of net derivative assets,   $771 million   of AFS debt securities,   $632 million   of LHFS and   $1.8 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers out of Level 3 for trading account assets primarily related to increased market liquidity for certain corporate and commercial real estate loans. Transfers out of Level 3 for net derivative assets primarily related to increased price observability (i.e., market comparables for the referenced instruments) for certain total return swaps and foreign exchange swaps. Transfers out of Level 3 for AFS debt securities primarily related to increased price observability for certain non-agency RMBS and ABS. Transfers out of Level 3 for LHFS primarily related to increased observable inputs, primarily liquid comparables. Transfers out of Level 3 for long-term debt were primarily due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of certain structured liabilities. 

(1)   
    Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase / (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) / decrease to Level 3. 
               (2)   
    Net derivatives include derivative assets of   $14.4 billion   and derivative liabilities of   $8.5 billion  . 
               (3)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (4)   
    Issuances represent loan originations and mortgage servicing rights retained following securitizations or whole loan sales. 
               (5)   
    Other assets is primarily comprised of net monoline exposure to a single counterparty and private equity investments. 
       During   2011  , the transfers into Level 3 included   $1.9 billion   of trading account assets,   $1.2 billion   of net derivative assets and   $2.1 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers into Level 3 for trading account assets were primarily certain CLOs, corporate loans and bonds that were transferred due to decreased market activity. Transfers into Level 3 for net derivative assets were the result of changes in the valuation methodology for certain total return swaps, in addition to increases in certain equity derivatives with significant unobservable inputs. Transfers into Level 3 for long-term debt were primarily due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of certain structured liabilities. Transfers occur on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 

During   2011  , the transfers out of Level 3 included   $1.6 billion   of trading account assets,   $6.3 billion   of AFS debt securities,   $4.4 billion   of loans and leases,   $2.0 billion   of other assets and   $1.6 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers out of Level 3 for trading account assets were primarily due to increased price observability on certain RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) and consumer ABS portfolios, as well as certain corporate bond positions due to increased trading volume. Transfers out of Level 3 for AFS debt securities primarily related to auto, credit card and student loan ABS portfolios due to increased trading volume in the secondary market for similar securities. Transfers out of Level 3 for loans and leases were due to increased observable inputs, primarily liquid comparables, for certain corporate loans. Transfers out of Level 3 for other assets were primarily the result of an IPO of an equity investment. Transfers out of Level 3 for long-term debt were primarily due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of certain structured liabilities. 

(1)   
    Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase / (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) / decrease to Level 3. 
               (2)   
    Net derivatives include derivative assets of   $18.8 billion   and derivative liabilities of   $11.0 billion  . 
               (3)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (4)   
    Other assets is primarily comprised of AFS marketable equity securities. 
       During   2010  , the transfers into Level 3 included   $3.2 billion   of trading account assets,   $3.5 billion   of AFS debt securities,   $1.1 billion   of net derivative assets and   $1.9 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers into Level 3 for trading account assets were due to reduced price transparency as a result of lower levels of trading activity for certain municipal ARS and corporate debt securities as well as a change in valuation methodology for certain ABS to a discounted cash flow model. Transfers into Level 3 for AFS debt securities were due to an increase in the number of non-agency RMBS and other taxable securities priced using a discounted cash flow model. Transfers into Level 3 for net derivative contracts were primarily related to a lack of price observability for certain credit default and total return swaps. Transfers into Level 3 for long-term  

debt were primarily due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of certain structured liabilities. Transfers occur on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 
  During   2010  , the transfers out of Level 3 included   $3.4 billion   of trading account assets and   $1.8 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers out of Level 3 for trading account assets were due to increased price verification of certain MBS, corporate debt and non-U.S. government and agency securities. Transfers out of Level 3 for long-term debt were primarily due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of certain structured liabilities. 

The following tables summarize gains (losses) due to changes in fair value, including both realized and unrealized gains (losses), recorded in earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities during   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . These amounts include gains (losses) on loans, LHFS, loan commitments and structured liabilities that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

The following tables summarize changes in unrealized gains (losses) recorded in earnings during   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   for Level 3 assets and liabilities that were still held at   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . These amounts include changes in fair value on loans, LHFS, loan commitments and structured liabilities that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
       The following tables present information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation s material categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2012  . 

(1)   
    The categories are aggregated based on product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page   261  : Trading account assets   Corporate securities, trading loans and other of   $3.7 billion  , Trading account assets   Mortgage trading loans and ABS of   $4.9 billion  , AFS debt securities   Other taxable securities of   $3.9 billion  , AFS debt securities   Tax-exempt securities of   $1.1 billion  , Loans and leases of   $2.3 billion  , LHFS of   $2.7 billion   and Other assets of   $1.9 billion  . 
               (2)   
    For additional information on the ranges of inputs for equity correlation and long-dated volatilities, see the qualitative equity derivatives discussion on page   268  . 
               (3)   
    Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes. 
     n/a = not applicable  
  n/m = not meaningful 
  CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate 
  CDR = Constant Default Rate 
  EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 

Quantitative Information about Level 3 Fair Value Measurements (continued) 

(Dollars in millions) 

Inputs 
      Financial Instrument 
    Fair Value 
    Valuation Technique 
    Significant Unobservable Inputs 
    Ranges of Inputs 
      Net derivatives assets 

Credit derivatives 
    $ 
    2,327 
      
    Discounted cash flow, Stochastic recovery correlation model 
    Yield 
    2% to 25% 

Credit spreads 
    58 bps to 615 bps 

Upfront points 
    25 points to 99 points 

Spread to index 
    -2,080 bps to 1,972 bps 

Credit correlation 
    19% to 75% 

Prepayment speed 
    3% to 30% CPR 

Default rate  
    0% to 8% CDR 

Loss severity 
    25% to 42% 
      Equity derivatives 
    $ 
    (1,295 
    ) 
    Industry standard derivative pricing    (4)  
    Equity correlation 
    30% to 97% 

Long-dated volatilities 
    20% to 70% 

Commodity derivatives 
    $ 
    (5 
    ) 
    Discounted cash flow 
    Long-term natural gas basis 
    -$0.30 to $0.30 
      Interest rate derivatives 
    $ 
    441 
      
    Industry standard derivative pricing    (4)  
    Correlation (IR/IR) 
    15% to 99% 

Correlation (FX/IR) 
    -65% to 50% 

Long-dated inflation rates 
    2% to 3% 

Long-dated inflation volatilities 
    0% to 1% 

Long-dated volatilities (FX) 
    5% to 36% 

Long-dated swap rates 
    8% to 10% 
      Total net derivative assets 
    $ 
    1,468 

(4)     Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates. 
  CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate 
  CDR = Constant Default Rate 
  IR = Interest Rate 
  FX = Foreign Exchange 
    In the tables above, instruments backed by residential and commercial real estate assets include RMBS, CMBS, whole loans, mortgage CDOs and net monoline exposure. Commercial loans, debt securities and other includes corporate CLOs and CDOs, commercial loans and bonds, and securities backed by non-real estate assets. Structured liabilities primarily includes equity-linked notes that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
  In addition to the instruments in the tables above, the Corporation holds   $1.2 billion   of instruments consisting primarily of certain direct private equity investments and private equity funds that are classified as Level 3 and reported within other assets. Valuations of direct private equity investments are based on the most recent company financial information. Inputs generally include market and acquisition comparables, entry level multiples, as well as other variables. The Corporation selects a valuation methodology (e.g., market comparables) for each investment and, in certain instances, multiple inputs are weighted to derive the most representative value. Discounts are applied as appropriate to consider the lack of liquidity and marketability versus publicly-traded companies. For private equity funds, fair value is determined using the net asset value as provided by the individual fund s general partner. 
  For information on the inputs and techniques used in the valuation of MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  The Corporation uses multiple market approaches in valuing certain of its Level 3 financial instruments. For example, market comparables and discounted cash flows are used together. For a given product, such as corporate debt securities, market comparables may be used to estimate some of the unobservable inputs and then these inputs are incorporated into a discounted cash flow model. Therefore, the balances disclosed encompass both of these techniques. 

The level of aggregation and diversity within the products disclosed in the table result in certain ranges of inputs being wide and unevenly distributed across asset and liability categories. 
  For credit derivatives, the range of credit spreads represents positions with varying levels of default risk to the underlying instruments. The lower end of the credit spread range typically represents shorter-dated instruments and those with better perceived credit risk. The higher end of the range comprises longer-dated instruments and those referencing debt issuances that are more likely to be impaired or nonperforming. The majority of inputs are concentrated in the lower end of the range. Similarly, the spread to index can vary significantly based on the risk of the instrument. The spread will be positive for instruments that have a higher risk of default than the index (which is based on a weighted average of its components) and negative for instruments that have a lower risk of default than the index. Inputs are distributed evenly throughout the range for spread to index. For yield and credit correlation, the majority of the inputs are concentrated in the center of the range. Inputs are concentrated in the middle to lower end of the range for upfront points. The range for loss severity reflects exposures that are concentrated in the middle to upper end of the range while the ranges for prepayment speed and default rates reflect exposures that are concentrated in the lower end of the range. 
  For equity derivatives, including those embedded in long-term debt, the range for equity correlation represents exposure primarily concentrated toward the upper end of the range. The range for long-dated volatilities represents exposure primarily concentrated toward the lower end of the range. 
  For interest rate derivatives, the diversity in the portfolio is reflected in wide ranges of inputs because the variety of currencies and tenors of the transactions requires the use of numerous foreign exchange and interest rate curves. Since foreign exchange  

and interest rate correlations are measured between curves and across the various tenors on the same curve, the range of potential values can include both negative and positive values. For the correlation (IR/IR) range, the exposure represents the valuation of interest rate correlations on less liquid pairings and is concentrated at the upper end of the range. For the correlation (FX/IR) range, the exposure is the sensitivity to a broad mix of interest rate and foreign exchange correlations and is distributed evenly throughout the range. For long-dated inflation rates and volatilities as well as long-dated volatilities (FX), the inputs are concentrated in the middle of the range.  
  Sensitivity of Fair Value Measurements to Changes in Unobservable Inputs 
  Loans and Securities 
  For instruments backed by residential real estate assets, commercial real estate assets, and commercial loans, debt securities and other, a significant increase in market yields, default rates or loss severities would result in a significantly lower fair value for long positions. Short positions would be impacted in a directionally opposite way. The impact of changes in prepayment speeds would have differing impacts depending on the seniority of the instrument and, in the case of CLOs, whether prepayments can be reinvested. 
  For closed-end ARS, a significant increase in discount rates would result in a significantly lower fair value. For student loan and municipal ARS, a significant increase in projected tender price/refinancing levels would result in a significantly higher fair value. 
  Structured Liabilities and Derivatives 
  For credit derivatives, a significant increase in market yield, including spreads to indices, upfront points (i.e., a single upfront payment made by a protection buyer at inception), credit spreads, default rates or loss severities would result in a significantly lower fair value for protection sellers and higher fair value for protection buyers. The impact of changes in prepayment speeds would have differing impacts depending on the seniority of the instrument and, in the case of CLOs, whether prepayments can be reinvested. 
  Structured credit derivatives, which include tranched portfolio CDS and derivatives with derivative product company (DPC) and monoline counterparties, are impacted by credit correlation, including default and wrong-way correlation. Default correlation is a parameter that describes the degree of dependence among credit default rates within a credit portfolio that underlies a credit derivative instrument. The sensitivity of this input on the fair value varies depending on the level of subordination of the tranche. For  

senior tranches that are net purchases of protection, a significant increase in default correlation would result in a significantly higher fair value. Net short protection positions would be impacted in a directionally opposite way. Wrong-way correlation is a parameter that describes the probability that as exposure to a counterparty increases, the credit quality of the counterparty decreases. A significantly higher degree of wrong-way correlation between a DPC counterparty and underlying derivative exposure would result in a significantly lower fair value.  
  For equity derivatives, equity-linked long-term debt (structured liabilities) and interest rate derivatives, a significant change in long-dated rates and volatilities and correlation inputs (e.g., the degree of correlation between an equity security and an index, between two different interest rates, or between interest rates and foreign exchange rates) would result in a significant impact to the fair value; however, the magnitude and direction of the impact depends on whether the Corporation is long or short the exposure. 
    Nonrecurring Fair Value 
  The Corporation holds certain assets that are measured at fair value, but only in certain situations (for example, impairment) and these measurements are referred to herein as nonrecurring. These assets primarily include LHFS, certain loans and leases, and foreclosed properties. The amounts below represent only balances measured at fair value during   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , and still held as of the reporting date. 

(1)   
    Amounts are included in other assets on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet and represent fair value and related losses on foreclosed properties that were written down subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed properties. 
               (2)   
    Losses represent charge-offs on real estate-secured loans. 

The table below presents information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation s nonrecurring Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2012  . 

Quantitative Information about Nonrecurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements 

(Dollars in millions) 

Inputs 
      Financial Instrument 
    Fair Value 
    Valuation Technique 
    Significant Unobservable  
  Inputs 
    Ranges of Inputs 
    Weighted Average 
      Instruments backed by residential real estate assets 
    $ 
    9,932 
      
    Discounted cash flow, Market comparables 
    Yield 
    3% to 5% 
    3 
    % 
      Loans held-for-sale 
    748 
      
    Prepayment speed 
    3% to 30% 
    15 
    % 
      Loans and leases 
    9,184 
      
    Default rate 
    0% to 55% 
    7 
    % 

Loss severity 
    6% to 66% 
    48 
    % 

OREO discount 
    0% to 28% 
    15 
    % 

Cost to sell 
    8% 
    n/a 
      
      Instruments backed by commercial real estate assets 
    $ 
    388 
      
    Discounted cash flow 
    Yield 
    4% to 13% 
    6 
    % 
      Loans held-for-sale 
    388 
      
    Loss severity 
    24% to 88% 
    53 
    % 

n/a = not applicable 
      
  Instruments backed by residential real estate assets represent residential mortgages where the loan has been written down to the fair value of the underlying collateral or, in the case of LHFS, are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. 
  In addition to the instruments disclosed in the table above, the Corporation holds foreclosed residential properties where the fair value is based on unadjusted third-party appraisals or broker price opinions. Appraisals are conducted every 90 days. Factors considered in determining the fair value include geographic sales trends, the value of comparable surrounding properties as well as the condition of the property.  
    NOTE 22   Fair Value Option 
  Loans and Loan Commitments 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain consumer and commercial loans and loan commitments that exceeded the Corporation s single name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored and, as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with the Corporation s public side credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for designation as accounting hedges and therefore are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss). Electing the fair value option allows the Corporation to carry these loans and loan commitments at fair value, which is more consistent with management s view of the underlying economics and the manner in which they are managed. In addition, election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the credit derivatives at fair value. Of the changes in fair value for these loans,   $1.2 billion   was attributable to changes in borrower-specific credit risk.  

Loans Held-for-sale 
  The Corporation elects to account for residential mortgage LHFS, commercial mortgage LHFS and other LHFS under the fair value option with interest income on these LHFS recorded in other interest income. These loans are actively managed and monitored and, as appropriate, certain market risks of the loans may be mitigated through the use of derivatives. The Corporation has elected not to designate the derivatives as qualifying accounting hedges and therefore they are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss). The changes in fair value of the loans are largely offset by changes in the fair value of the derivatives. Of the changes in fair value for these loans,   $425 million   was attributable to changes in borrower-specific credit risk. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at the lower of cost or fair value and the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation has not elected to account for other LHFS under the fair value option primarily because these loans are floating-rate loans that are not hedged using derivative instruments.  
  Loans Reported as Trading Account Assets 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain loans that are held for the purpose of trading and risk-managed on a fair value basis under the fair value option. An immaterial portion of the changes in fair value for these loans was attributable to changes in borrower-specific credit risk. 
  Other Assets 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain private equity investments that are not in an investment company under the fair value option as this measurement basis is consistent with applicable accounting guidance for similar investments that are in an investment company. The Corporation also elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate margin loans that are hedged with derivatives under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the derivatives at fair value. 

Securities Financing Agreements 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing agreements, including resale and repurchase agreements, under the fair value option based on the tenor of the agreements, which reflects the magnitude of the interest rate risk. The majority of securities financing agreements collateralized by U.S. government securities are not accounted for under the fair value option as these contracts are generally short-dated and therefore the interest rate risk is not significant. 
  Long-term Deposits 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate and rate-linked deposits that are hedged with derivatives and do not qualify for hedge accounting under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation did not elect to carry other long-term deposits at fair value because they were not hedged using derivatives. 

Other Short-term Borrowings 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain other short-term borrowings under the fair value option because this debt is risk-managed on a fair value basis. 
  Long-term Debt 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term debt, primarily structured liabilities, under the fair value option. This long-term debt is either risk-managed on a fair value basis or the related hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting. 
  Asset-backed Secured Financings 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain asset-backed secured financings, which are classified in other short-term borrowings, under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the asset-backed secured financings at historical cost and the corresponding mortgage LHFS securing these financings at fair value. 
  The table below provides information about the fair value carrying amount and the contractual principal outstanding of assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option at   December 31, 2012   and   2011  . 

(1)   
    The majority of the difference between the fair value carrying amount and contractual principal outstanding at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   relates to the impact of the Corporation s credit spreads as well as the fair value of the embedded derivative, where applicable. 
     n/a = not applicable 

The table below provides information about where changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option are included in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  . 

(1)    
    The majority of the net gains (losses) in trading account profits (losses) relate to the embedded derivative in structured liabilities and are offset by gains (losses) on derivatives and securities that hedge these liabilities. The net gains (losses) in other income (loss) relate to the impact on structured liabilities of changes in the Corporation s credit spread. 
       
      NOTE 23   Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The fair values of financial instruments and their classifications within the fair value hierarchy have been derived using methodologies described in   Note 21   Fair Value Measurements  . The following disclosures include financial instruments where only a portion of the ending balance at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   was carried at fair value on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  Short-term Financial Instruments 
  The carrying value of short-term financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, time deposits placed and other short-term investments, federal funds sold and purchased, resale and certain repurchase agreements, customer and other receivables, customer payables (within accrued expenses and other liabilities  

on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet), and other short-term borrowings approximates the fair value of these instruments. These financial instruments generally expose the Corporation to limited credit risk and have no stated maturities or have short-term maturities and carry interest rates that approximate market. The Corporation elected to account for certain repurchase agreements under the fair value option. 
  Under the fair value hierarchy, cash and cash equivalents are classified as Level 1. Time deposits placed and other short-term investments, such as U.S. government securities and short-term commercial paper, are classified as Level 1 and Level 2. Federal funds sold and purchased are classified as Level 2. Resale and repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 because they are generally short-dated and/or variable-rate instruments collateralized by U.S. government or agency securities. Customer  

and other receivables primarily consist of margin loans, servicing advances and other accounts receivable and are classified as Level 2 and Level 3. Customer payables (within accrued expenses and other liabilities) and other short-term borrowings are classified as Level 2. 
  Held-to-maturity Debt Securities 
  HTM debt securities, which consist of U.S. agency debt securities, are classified as Level 2 using the same methodologies as AFS U.S. agency debt securities. For additional information on HTM debt securities, see   Note 4   Securities  . 
  Loans 
  Fair values were generally determined by discounting both principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected using a discount rate for similar instruments with adjustments that the Corporation believes a market participant would consider in determining fair value. The Corporation estimates the cash flows expected to be collected using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate the Corporation s best estimate of current key assumptions, such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds for the life of the loan. The carrying value of loans is presented net of the applicable allowance for loan losses and excludes leases. The Corporation elected to account for certain large commercial loans that exceeded the Corporation s single name credit risk concentration guidelines by an amount that would require hedging under the fair value option. 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  Commercial and residential reverse MSRs, which are carried at the lower of cost or market value and accounted for using the amortization method, are classified as Level 3. For additional information on MSRs, see   Note 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  Deposits 
  The fair value for certain deposits with stated maturities was determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates for instruments with similar maturities. The carrying value of non-U.S. time deposits approximates fair value. For deposits with no stated maturities, the carrying value was considered to approximate fair value and does not take into account the significant value of the cost advantage and stability of the Corporation s long-term relationships with depositors. The Corporation accounts for certain long-term fixed-rate deposits that are hedged with derivatives on a risk management basis under the fair value option. 
  Long-term Debt 
  The Corporation uses quoted market prices, when available, to estimate fair value for its long-term debt. When quoted market prices are not available, fair value is estimated based on current market interest rates and credit spreads for debt with similar terms and maturities. The Corporation accounts for certain structured liabilities under the fair value option. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The carrying values and fair values by fair value hierarchy of certain financial instruments where only a portion of the ending balance was carried at fair value are presented in the table below. 

The carrying values and fair values of certain financial instruments where only a portion of the ending balance was carried at fair value are presented in the table below. 

Commercial Unfunded Lending Commitments 
  Fair values were generally determined using a discounted cash flow valuation approach which is applied using market-based CDS or internally developed benchmark credit curves. The Corporation accounts for certain loan commitments under the fair value option. 
  The carrying values and fair values of the Corporation s commercial unfunded lending commitments were   $1.0 billion   and   $4.5 billion   at   December 31, 2012  , and   $2.0 billion   and   $7.1 billion   at   December 31, 2011  . Commercial unfunded lending commitments are primarily classified as Level 3. The carrying value of these commitments is classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  The Corporation does not estimate the fair values of consumer unfunded lending commitments because, in many instances, the Corporation can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing notice to the borrower. For additional information on commitments, see   Note 13   Commitments and Contingencies  . 

NOTE 24   Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  The Corporation accounts for consumer MSRs at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income in mortgage banking income (loss). The Corporation manages the risk in these MSRs with securities including MBS and U.S. Treasuries, as well as certain derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, which are not designated as accounting hedges. The securities used to manage the risk in the MSRs are classified in other assets with changes in the fair value of the securities and the related interest income recorded in mortgage banking income (loss). 
  The table below presents activity for residential first-lien MSRs for   2012   and   2011  . Commercial and residential reverse MSRs, which are carried at the lower of cost or market value and accounted for using the amortization method, totaled   $135 million   and   $132 million   at   December 31, 2012 and 2011  , and are not included in the tables in this Note. 

(1)   
    Represents the change in the market value of the MSR asset due to the impact of customer payments received during the period. 
               (2)   
    These amounts reflect the changes in modeled MSR fair value primarily due to observed changes in interest rates, volatility, spreads and the shape of the forward swap curve. 
               (3)   
    These amounts reflect periodic adjustments to the valuation model as well as changes in certain cash flow assumptions such as cost to service and ancillary income per loan. 
               (4)   
    As part of the MSR fair value estimation process, the Corporation increased its estimated cost to service during 2011 due to higher costs expected from foreclosure delays and procedures, the implementation of various loan modification programs, and compliance with new banking regulations. During 2012, the Corporation has continued to refine its estimates of cost to service and ancillary income to be consistent with market participants  view which resulted in a decrease to the estimated cost to service. 
     The Corporation primarily uses an OAS valuation approach which factors in prepayment risk to determine the fair value of MSRs. This approach consists of projecting servicing cash flows under multiple interest rate scenarios and discounting these cash flows using risk-adjusted discount rates. In late 2012, the Corporation solicited and received multiple proposals from independent third parties for the purchase of a portion of the  

MSRs. The Corporation used the prices in the proposals, as adjusted to exclude the portion of the pricing that was not specific to the MSRs, as a third-party pricing source in the valuation of the MSRs. Use of this pricing source had the effect of increasing the fair value of the MSRs by   $342 million  , which is included in Other model changes in the table above, to bring the fair value of the MSRs to an amount consistent with the third-party price discovery. 
  The significant economic assumptions used in determining the fair value of MSRs at   December 31, 2012 and 2011   are presented below. 

The table below presents the sensitivity of the weighted-average lives and fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions. These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the amounts indicate, changes in fair value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of MSRs that continue to be held by the Corporation is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. The below sensitivities do not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk. 

NOTE 25   Merger and Restructuring Activity 
  Merger and restructuring charges are recorded in the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income and include incremental costs to integrate the operations of the Corporation and its most recent acquisitions. These charges represent costs associated with these activities and do not represent ongoing costs of the fully integrated combined organization. The table below presents the components of merger and restructuring charges.  

There were   no   merger and restructuring charges in   2012  . For   2011  , all merger-related charges related to the Merrill Lynch acquisition. For   2010  , merger-related charges include   $1.6 billion   related to the Merrill Lynch acquisition and   $202 million   related to earlier acquisitions. 
  The table below presents the changes in restructuring reserves for   2012   and   2011  . Restructuring reserves are established by a charge to merger and restructuring charges, and the restructuring charges are included in the table. Substantially all of the amounts in the table relate to the Merrill Lynch acquisition. 

Amounts added to the restructuring reserves in   2011   related to severance and other employee-related costs. 
    NOTE 26     Business Segment Information 
  The Corporation reports the results of its operations through   five   business segments:   Consumer   Business Banking (CBB)  ,   Consumer Real Estate Services (CRES), Global Banking, Global Markets   and   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM),   with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  . 
  Consumer   Business Banking 
  CBB   offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and businesses.   CBB   product offerings include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts, investment accounts and products as well as credit and debit cards in the U.S. to consumers and small businesses. Customers and clients have access to a franchise that stretches coast to coast through   32   states and the District of Columbia. The franchise network includes approximately   5,500   banking centers,   16,300   ATMs, nationwide call centers, and online and mobile platforms.   CBB   also offers a wide range of lending- 

related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions through a network of offices and client relationship teams along with various product partners to U.S.-based companies generally with annual sales of   $1 million   to   $50 million  .   CBB   results are impacted by the migration of clients and their deposit and loan balances between   CBB   and other client-managed businesses. Subsequent to the date of migration, the associated net interest income, noninterest income and noninterest expense are recorded in the business to which the clients migrated.  
  Consumer Real Estate Services 
  CRES   provides an extensive line of consumer real estate products and services to customers nationwide.   CRES   products include fixed- and adjustable-rate first-lien mortgage loans for home purchase and refinancing needs, HELOC and home equity loans. First mortgage products are either sold into the secondary mortgage market to investors, while generally retaining MSRs and the Bank of America customer relationships, or are held on the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet in   All Other   for ALM purposes  .   HELOC and home equity loans are retained on the   CRES   balance sheet.   CRES   services mortgage loans, including those loans it owns, loans owned by other business segments and   All Other  , and loans owned by outside investors.  
  The financial results of the on-balance sheet loans are reported in the business segment that owns the loans or   All Other  .   CRES   is not impacted by the Corporation s first mortgage production retention decisions as   CRES   is compensated for loans held for ALM purposes on a management accounting basis, with a corresponding offset recorded in   All Other  , and for servicing loans owned by other business segments and   All Other  .     CRES   also includes the impact of transferring customers and their related loan balances between   GWIM   and   CRES   based on client segmentation thresholds. Subsequent to the date of transfer, the associated net interest income and noninterest expense are recorded in the business segment to which loans were transferred. 
  Global Banking 
  Global Banking   provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions to clients, and underwriting and advisory services through the Corporation s network of offices and client relationship teams along with various product partners.   Global Banking s   lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending, asset-based lending and direct/indirect consumer loans.   Global Banking s   treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options.   Global Banking   also works with clients to provide investment banking products such as debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between   Global Banking   and   Global Markets   based on the contribution by, and involvement of each segment.   Global Banking   clients include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms, auto dealerships, not-for-profit companies, federal and state governments, municipalities, large global corporations, financial institutions and leasing clients.  

Global Markets 
  Global Markets   offers sales and trading services, including research, to institutional clients across fixed income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses.   Global Markets   product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets.   Global Markets   provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities.   Global Markets   also works with commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products. As a result of market-making activities in these products,   Global Markets   may be required to manage risk in government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities, commercial paper, MBS, commodities and ABS. The economics of certain investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between   Global Markets   and   Global Banking   based on the activities performed by each segment. 
  Global Wealth   Investment Management 
  GWIM   provides comprehensive wealth management solutions to a broad base of clients from emerging affluent to the ultra-wealthy. These services include investment and brokerage services, estate and financial planning, fiduciary portfolio management, cash and liability management, and specialty asset management.   GWIM   also provides retirement and benefit plan services, philanthropic management and asset management to individual and institutional clients.   GWIM   results are impacted by the migration of clients and their deposit and loan balances between   GWIM   and other client-managed businesses. Subsequent to the date of migration, the associated net interest income, noninterest income and noninterest expense are recorded in the business to which the clients migrated. In 2012, the Corporation entered into an agreement to sell the   GWIM   IWM businesses based outside of the U.S. and sold its Japanese brokerage joint venture. As a result of these actions, the IWM businesses and the Japanese brokerage joint venture results were moved to   All Other   and prior periods have been reclassified. 
  All Other 
  All Other   consists of ALM activities, equity investments, liquidating businesses and other. ALM activities encompass the whole-loan residential mortgage portfolio and investment securities, interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities including the residual net interest income allocation, gains/losses on structured liabilities, and the impact of certain allocation methodologies and accounting hedge ineffectiveness. Additionally,   All Other   includes  

certain residential mortgage and discontinued real estate loans that are managed by   CRES  . In 2012, the IWM businesses and the Japanese brokerage joint venture results were moved to   All Other   from   GWIM   and prior periods have been reclassified. 
  Basis of Presentation 
  The management accounting and reporting process derives segment and business results by utilizing allocation methodologies for revenue and expense. The net income derived for the businesses is dependent upon revenue and cost allocations using an activity-based costing model, funds transfer pricing, and other methodologies and assumptions management believes are appropriate to reflect the results of the business. 
  Total revenue, net of interest expense, includes net interest income on a FTE basis and noninterest income. The adjustment of net interest income to a FTE basis results in a corresponding increase in income tax expense. The segment results also reflect certain revenue and expense methodologies that are utilized to determine net income. The net interest income of the businesses includes the results of a funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. For presentation purposes, in segments where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, the Corporation allocates assets to match liabilities. Net interest income of the business segments also includes an allocation of net interest income generated by the Corporation s ALM activities. 
  The Corporation s ALM activities include an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of various derivatives and cash instruments to manage fluctuations in earnings and capital that are caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. The majority of the Corporation s ALM activities are allocated to the business segments and fluctuate based on performance. ALM activities include external product pricing decisions including deposit pricing strategies, the effects of the Corporation s internal funds transfer pricing process and the net effects of other ALM activities. 
  Certain expenses not directly attributable to a specific business segment are allocated to the segments. The most significant of these expenses include data and item processing costs and certain centralized or shared functions. Data processing costs are allocated to the segments based on equipment usage. Item processing costs are allocated to the segments based on the volume of items processed for each segment. The costs of certain other centralized or shared functions are allocated based on methodologies that reflect utilization. 

The following tables present total revenue, net of interest expense, on a FTE basis, and net income (loss) for   2012  ,   2011   and   2010  , and total assets at   December 31, 2012   and   2011   for each business segment, as well as   All Other  . 

(1)   
    There were no material intersegment revenues. 

The following tables present a reconciliation of the   five   business segments  total revenue, net of interest expense, on a FTE basis, and net income (loss) to the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income, and total assets to the Corporation s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The adjustments presented in the following tables include consolidated income, expense and asset amounts not specifically allocated to individual business segments. 

NOTE 27   Parent Company Information 
  The following tables present the Parent Company-only financial information. 

(1)   
    Includes   $6.5 billion   of gains related to the sale of the Corporation s investment in CCB in   2011  . 
               (2)   
    Includes, in aggregate,   $4.1 billion  ,   $6.9 billion   and   $3.5 billion   in   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   of representations and warranties provision, which is presented as a component of mortgage banking income on the Corporation s Consolidated Statement of Income, litigation expense and in 2012 an expense related to an agreement with the Federal Reserve and the OCC to cease the Independent Foreclosure Review and replace it with an accelerated remediation process. The Parent Company-only financial information is presented in accordance with bank regulatory reporting requirements. 

NOTE 28   Performance by Geographical Area 
  Since the Corporation s operations are highly integrated, certain asset, liability, income and expense amounts must be allocated to arrive at total assets, total revenue, net of interest expense, income (loss) before income taxes and net income (loss) by geographic area. The Corporation identifies its geographic performance based on the business unit structure used to manage the capital or expense deployed in the region as applicable. This requires certain judgments related to the allocation of revenue so that revenue can be appropriately matched with the related expense or capital deployed in the region. 

(1)   
    Total assets include long-lived assets, which are primarily located in the U.S. 
               (2)   
    There were no material intercompany revenues between geographic regions for any of the periods presented. 
                (4)   
    Amounts include pre-tax gains of   $6.5 billion   (  $4.1 billion   net-of-tax) on the sale of common shares of the Corporation s investment in CCB during   2011  . 

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  None 
    Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  As of the end of the period covered by this report and pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange  

Act), Bank of America s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of our disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, Bank of America s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Bank of America s disclosure controls and procedures were effective, as of the end of the period covered by this report, in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting information required to be disclosed, within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    To the Board of Directors of Bank of America Corporation: 
  We have examined, based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, Bank of America Corporation s (the  Corporation ) assertion, included under Item 9A, that the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of   December 31, 2012   ( Management s Assertion ). Disclosure controls and procedures mean controls and other procedures of an issuer that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to the issuer s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective disclosure controls and procedures and for Management s Assertion of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Management s Assertion based on our examination. 
  There are inherent limitations to disclosure controls and procedures. Because of these inherent limitations, effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving the intended objectives. Disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent, or detect and correct, material misstatements, and they may not identify all information relating to the Corporation to be accumulated and communicated to the Corporation s management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Also, projections of any evaluation  

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that disclosure controls and procedures may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  We conducted our examination in accordance with attestation standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective disclosure controls and procedures were maintained in all material respects. Our examination included obtaining an understanding of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures based on the assessed risk. Our examination also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our examination provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our examination was not conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion, and accordingly we express no opinion, on the accuracy or completeness of the Corporation s disclosures in its reports, or whether such disclosures comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  In our opinion, Management s Assertion that the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of   December 31, 2012   is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  
  Charlotte, North Carolina 
  February 28, 2013    

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    The   Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   is set forth on page   154   and incorporated herein by reference. The   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   with respect to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is set forth on page   155   and incorporated herein by reference. 

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended   December 31, 2012  , that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    Item 9B.  Other Information 
  None  

Part III 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
      Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  Executive Officers of The Registrant 
  The name, age, position and office, and business experience during the last five years of our current executive officers are: 
  David C. Darnell (60) Co-chief Operating Officer     since September 2011; and President, Global Commercial Banking from July 2005 to September 2011. Mr. Darnell joined the Corporation in 1979 and served in a number of senior leadership roles prior to July 2005. 
  Terrence P. Laughlin (58) Chief Risk Officer     since August 2011; Legacy Asset Servicing Executive from February 2011 to August 2011; Credit Loss Mitigation Strategies   Secondary Markets Executive from August 2010 to February 2011; Chief Executive Officer and President of OneWest Bank, FSB from March 2009 to July 2010; and Chairman of Merrill Lynch Bank   Trust Co., FSB, and Managing Director of Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. from February 2005 to May 2008. 
  Gary G. Lynch (62) Global General Counsel and Head of Compliance and Regulatory Relations   since September 2012;   Global Chief of Legal, Compliance and Regulatory Relations   from   July 2011 to September 2012; Vice Chairman of Morgan Stanley from May 2009 to July 2011; and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley from October 2005 to September 2010. 
  Thomas K. Montag (56) Co-chief Operating Officer   since September 2011; President, Global Banking and Markets   from   August 2009 to September 2011; President, Global Markets from January 2009 to August 2009; Executive Vice President and Head of Global Sales and Trading of Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. from August 2008 to December 2008; Co-head, Global Securities of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. from 2006 to 2008; Member, Management Committee of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. from 2002 to 2008; and Member, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities   Equities Executive Committee of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. from 2000 to 2008. 

Brian T. Moynihan (53) President and Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors     since January 2010; President, Consumer and Small Business Banking from August 2009 to December 2009; President, Global Banking and Wealth Management from January 2009 to August 2009; General Counsel from December 2008 to January 2009; and President, Global Corporate and Investment Banking from October 2007 to December 2008. 
  Bruce R. Thompson (48) Chief Financial Officer     since June 2011; Chief Risk Officer from January 2010 to June 2011; Head of Global Capital Markets from July 2008 to January 2010; and Co-head of Capital Markets from October 2007 to July 2008. 
    
  Information included under the following captions in the Corporation s proxy statement relating to its   2013   annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled to be held on May 8, 2013 (the   2013   Proxy Statement), is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Proposal 1: Election of Directors   The Nominees  
                
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and 
                
     Corporate Governance   Additional Corporate Governance Information Available.  
       Item 11.  Executive Compensation 
    
  Information included under the following captions in the 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Proposal 2: An Advisory (Non-Binding) vote to Approve Executive Compensation   Compensation Discussion and Analysis  
                
       Executive Compensation  
                
       Compensation and Benefits Committee Report  and  
                
     Corporate Governance   Non-Management Director Compensation.  

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  Information included under the following caption in the 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Stock Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial Owners.  
     The table below presents information on equity compensation plans at   December 31, 2012  : 

(1)   
    This table does not include outstanding options to purchase 1,978,440 shares of the Corporation s common stock that were assumed by the Corporation in connection with prior acquisitions, under whose plans the options were originally granted. The weighted-average option price of these assumed options was $108.19 at   December 31, 2012  . Also, at   December 31, 2012   there were 148,272 vested deferred restricted stock units associated with these plans. No additional awards were granted under these plans following the respective dates of acquisition. 
               (2)   
    This table does not include outstanding options to purchase 6,047,487 shares of the Corporation s common stock that were assumed by the Corporation in connection with the Merrill Lynch acquisition, which were originally issued under certain Merrill Lynch plans. The weighted-average option price of these assumed options was $46.20 at   December 31, 2012  . Also, at   December 31, 2012   there were 11,146,796 outstanding restricted stock units and 1,373,950 vested deferred restricted stock units and stock option gain deferrals associated with such plans. These Merrill Lynch plans were frozen at the time of the acquisition and no additional awards may be granted under these plans. However, as previously approved by the Corporation s shareholders, if any of the outstanding awards under these frozen plans subsequently are canceled, forfeited or settled in cash, the shares relating to such awards thereafter will be available for future awards issued under the Corporation s Key Associate Stock Plan (KASP). 
               (3)   
    Includes 130,922,245 outstanding restricted stock units under plans approved by the Corporation s shareholders and 5,310,605 outstanding restricted stock units under plans not approved by the Corporation s shareholders. 
               (4)   
    Does not reflect restricted stock units included in the first column, which do not have an exercise price. 
               (5)   
    Includes 273,017,832 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the KASP (including 28,052,090 shares originally subject to awards outstanding under frozen Merrill Lynch plans at the time of the acquisition which subsequently have been canceled, forfeited or settled in cash and become available for issuance under the KASP, as described in footnote (2) above) and 511,111 shares of common stock which are available for future issuance under the Corporation s Directors  Stock Plan. 
               (6)   
    In connection with the Merrill Lynch acquisition, the Corporation assumed and has continued to issue awards in accordance with applicable NYSE listing standards under the Merrill Lynch Employee Stock Compensation Plan (ESCP). The ESCP was approved by Merrill Lynch s shareholders prior to the acquisition, but has not been approved by the Corporation s shareholders. The material features of the ESCP are described below under the heading  Description of Plans Not Approved by the Corporation s Shareholders.  
       Description of Plans Not Approved by the Corporation s Shareholders 
  Merrill Lynch Employee Stock Compensation Plan   (ESCP). The ESCP covers employees who were salaried key employees of Merrill Lynch or its subsidiaries immediately prior to the effective date of the Merrill Lynch acquisition, other than executive officers. Under the ESCP       , the Corporation may award restricted shares, restricted units, incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options and stock appreciation rights. Awards of restricted shares and restricted units are subject to a vesting schedule specified in the grant documentation. Restricted shares and restricted units under the ESCP may generally be canceled prior to the vesting date in the event of (i) violation of covenants specified in the grant documentation (including, but not limited to, non-competition, non-solicitation, nondisparagement and confidentiality covenants) or (ii) termination of employment prior to the end of the vesting period (except in certain limited circumstances, such as death, disability and retirement). Options have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. Options granted under the ESCP expire not more than 10 years from the date of grant, and the applicable grant documentation specifies the extent to which options may be exercised during their respective terms, including in the event of an employee s death, disability or termination of employment. Shares that are canceled, forfeited or  

settled in cash from an additional frozen Merrill Lynch plan also will become available for grant under the ESCP. The ESCP expired on February 24, 2013, after which date no additional awards may be granted thereunder.  
  For additional information on our equity compensation plans, see   Note 19   Stock-based Compensation Plans   to the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated herein by reference. 
    Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  Information included under the following captions in the 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Corporate Governance   Review of Related Person and Certain Other Transactions  and 
                
       Director Independence.  
       Item 14.      Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
  Information included under the following captions in the 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
              
       Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.  

Part IV 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
    Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
       
  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 
  (1) Financial Statements: 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010    
  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010    
  Consolidated Balance Sheet at   December 31, 2012   and   2011    
  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010    
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended   December 31, 2012  ,   2011   and   2010    
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  (2) Schedules: 
  None 
  (3) The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-4, including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are listed under Exhibit Nos. 10(a) through 10(aaa)). 
    
  With the exception of the information expressly incorporated herein by reference, the   2013   Proxy Statement shall not be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Signatures 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  Date:   February 28, 2013    
                 Bank of America Corporation 

By:  
    /s/  Brian T. Moynihan 
        
    Brian T. Moynihan 
        
    Chief Executive Officer and President 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

/s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
      
    Chief Executive Officer, President and Director 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Brian T. Moynihan 

*/s/ Bruce R. Thompson 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Bruce R. Thompson 

*/s/ Neil A. Cotty 
      
    Chief Accounting Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Neil A. Cotty 

*/s/ Sharon L. Allen 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Sharon L. Allen 

*/s/ Mukesh D. Ambani 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Mukesh D. Ambani 

*/s/ Susan S. Bies 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Susan S. Bies 

*/s/ Jack O. Bovender 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Jack O. Bovender 

*/s/ Frank P. Bramble, Sr. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Frank P. Bramble, Sr. 

*/s/ Virgis W. Colbert 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Virgis W. Colbert 

*/s/ Charles K. Gifford 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Charles K. Gifford 

*/s/ Charles O. Holliday, Jr. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 28, 2013 
        
    Charles O. Holliday, Jr. 

Index to Exhibits 

Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 
      (g) 
      
    Bank of America Corporation Key Associate Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective April 28, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on May 3, 2010*; and the following forms of award agreement under the plan: 

Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2007 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the registrant s 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on February 28, 2008 (the  2007 10-K )*;  
     Form of Stock Option Award Agreement (February 2007 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2007 10-K*; 
     Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for non-executives (February 2008 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2009 10-K*;  
     Form of Stock Option Award Agreement for non-executives (February 2008 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2009 10-K*; 
     Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for executives (February 2010 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2010 10-K.*; 
     Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (February 2010 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2010 10-K.*; 
     Form of Performance Contingent Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on January 31, 2011*; 
     Form of Performance Contingent Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2011 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2010 10-K.*; and 
     Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for non-executives (February 2011 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2010 10-K.*. 
     Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2012 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2011 10-K.*  
     Form of Performance Contingent Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2012 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2011 10-K.* 
     Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement for Gary G. Lynch dated July 12, 2011, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6523) for the quarterly period ended January 31, 2012 filed on May 3, 2012. * 
      (h) 
      
    Amendment to various plans in connection with FleetBoston Financial Corporation merger, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) of registrant s 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2004.*  
      (i) 
      
    FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended by Amendment One thereto effective January 1, 1997, Amendment Two thereto effective October 15, 1997, Amendment Three thereto effective July 1, 1998, Amendment Four thereto effective August 15, 1999, Amendment Five thereto effective January 1, 2000, Amendment Six thereto effective October 10, 2001, Amendment Seven thereto effective February 19, 2002, Amendment Eight thereto effective October 15, 2002, Amendment Nine thereto effective January 1, 2003, Amendment Ten thereto effective October 21, 2003, and Amendment Eleven thereto effective December 31, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (j) 
      
    FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plan No. 2, as amended by Amendment One thereto effective February 1, 1999, Amendment Two thereto effective January 1, 2000, Amendment Three thereto effective January 1, 2002, Amendment Four thereto effective October 15, 2002, Amendment Five thereto effective January 1, 2003, and Amendment Six thereto effective December 16, 2003, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (k) 
      
    FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan, as amended by Amendment One thereto effective January 1, 2000, Amendment Two thereto effective January 1, 2002, Amendment Three thereto effective January 1, 2003, Amendment Four thereto effective January 1, 2003, and Amendment Five thereto effective December 31, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (l) 
      
    Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) of the 2009 10-K; and Amendment thereto dated December 16, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) of the 2010 10-K; and Amendment thereto dated June 29, 2012, filed herewith.* 
    
      (m) 
      
    Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plans No. 1 and 2, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) of the 2004 10-K. 
    
      (n) 
      
    Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (o) 
      
    Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Retirement Income Assurance Plan and the FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(z) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (p) 
      
    FleetBoston Directors Deferred Compensation and Stock Unit Plan, as amended by an amendment thereto effective as of July 1, 2000, a Second Amendment thereto effective as of January 1, 2003, a Third Amendment thereto dated April 14, 2003, and a Fourth Amendment thereto effective January 1, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (q) 
      
    BankBoston Corporation and its Subsidiaries Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by a First Amendment thereto, a Second Amendment thereto, a Third Amendment thereto, an Instrument thereto (providing for the cessation of accruals effective December 31, 2000) and an Amendment thereto dated December 24, 2001, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (r) 
      
    BankBoston, N.A. Bonus Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, as amended by a First Amendment, a Second Amendment, a Third Amendment and a Fourth Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(dd) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (s) 
      
    Description of BankBoston Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ee) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (t) 
      
    BankBoston, N.A. Excess Benefit Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, as amended by a First Amendment, a Second Amendment, a Third Amendment thereto (assumed by FleetBoston on October 1, 1999) and an Instrument thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (u) 
      
    Description of BankBoston Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(gg) of the 2004 10-K.* 

(v) 
      
    BankBoston Director Stock Award Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(hh) of the 2004 10-K.* 

(w) 
      
    BankBoston Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by a First Amendment and a Second Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (x) 
      
    BankBoston, N.A. Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by a First Amendment and a Second Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(jj) of the 2004 10-K.*  
      (y) 
      
    BankBoston 1997 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended by an amendment thereto dated as of October 16, 2001, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(kk) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (z) 
      
    Description of BankBoston Director Retirement Benefits Exchange Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ll) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (aa) 
      
    Employment Agreement, dated as of March 14, 1999, between FleetBoston and Charles K. Gifford, as amended by an amendment thereto effective as of February 7, 2000, a Second Amendment thereto effective as of April 22, 2002, and a Third Amendment thereto effective as of October 1, 2002, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(mm) of the 2004 10-K.* 
    
      (bb) 
      
    Form of Change in Control Agreement entered into with Charles K. Gifford, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(nn) of the 2004 10-K.* 

Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 
      (b) 
      
    Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith. 
      99(a) 
      
    Resolution Agreement dated as of January 6, 2013 by and among Fannie Mae, Bank of America, National Association and Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., filed herewith. We have requested confidential treatment of certain provisions contained in this exhibit. The copy filed as an exhibit omits the information subject to the confidentiality request. The schedules to this agreement were filed in paper on February 28, 2013, pursuant to a continuing hardship exemption.  
    
      (b) 
      
    Settlement Agreement dated as of December 31, 2010 by and between Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Bank of America, National Association, BAC Home Loans Servicing, L.P. and Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., filed herewith. We have requested confidential treatment of certain provisions contained in this exhibit. The copy filed as an exhibit omits the information subject to the confidentiality request. Exhibits A-1, A-2 and C to this agreement were filed in paper on February 23, 2012, pursuant to a continuing hardship exemption. 
    
      (c) 
      
    Resolution Agreement with Respect to Certain Repurchase and Make-Whole Obligations and Claims dated as of December 31, 2010, by and among Fannie Mae, and Bank of America, N.A., BAC Home Loans Servicing LP and Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(a) of registrant s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on February 23, 2012. 

Exhibit 101.INS 
      
    XBRL Instance Document, filed herewith 
      Exhibit 101.SCH 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document, filed herewith 
      Exhibit 101.CAL 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document, filed herewith 
      Exhibit 101.LAB 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document, filed herewith 
      Exhibit 101.PRE 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document, filed herewith 
      Exhibit 101.DEF 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document, filed herewith 

___________________________ 
            *   
    Exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement. 

<EX-10.A>
 2
 bac-12312012x10kex10a.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 10 (a) 

Exhibit 10 (a) 

SECOND AMENDMENT 
  TO THE  
  BANK OF AMERICA PENSION RESTORATION PLAN 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2009) 
    
  Instrument of Amendment 
    
  THIS INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT (the  Instrument ) is executed by BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation with its principal office and place of business in Charlotte, North Carolina (the  Company ). 
    
  Statement of Purpose 
  By this Instrument, the Company is amending the Bank of America Pension Restoration Plan (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009) (the  Plan ) to reflect relevant changes resulting from the freeze of The Bank of America Pension Plan.   The Company has reserved the right in Section 4.1 of the Plan to amend the Plan in whole or in part, on its own behalf and on behalf of its affiliated companies that participate in the Plan. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby amends the Plan effective as of June 30, 2012: 
  1.    Section 1.14 of the Plan is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
     1.14        Delink Calculation Date 
  The date determined by the Global Human Resources Group that is not more than 75 days after the Participant's Termination of Employment; provided, however, that with respect to a Participant who is an Employee on October 1, 2012, the Delink Calculation Date is a date determined by the Global Human Resources Group that is not later than April 30, 2013.  
    
  2.    Section 1.25 of the Plan is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
     1.25        Restoration Credit 
    
  The amount credited to a Participant's Restoration Account pursuant to Section 2.2(b).  
    
  3.    The title to Section 2.2(b)(ii) is hereby amended to read    Amount of Restoration Credits for Plan Years before 2012  : . 

4.    A new paragraph (iii) is hereby added to Section 2.2(b) of the Plan to read in its entirety as follows: 
            (iii) 
    Amount of Restoration Credits for 2012  :  The Restoration Account of each Participant shall be credited with a Restoration Credit for 2012, the amount of which shall be equal to the lesser of   Amount A   or   Amount B  , where: 
       
           (A) 
    Amount A   equals the amount of Restoration Credits described in paragraph (ii) of this subsection but based only on the compensation credits that would have been allocated to the Participant's 'account' under the Basic Plan if amounts described in clauses (ii), (iii) and (iv) of paragraph (ii) of this subsection included only such amounts paid before July 1, 2012; and 
       
           (B) 
    Amount B   equals the compensation credits that would have been allocated to the Participant's account based on the excess of $250,000 over (I) 'compensation' under the Basic Plan through June 30, 2012 and (II) 'ACC-eligible compensation' from July 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 under the Savings Plan; provided, however, that, if a Participant has a Termination of Employment in 2012 after June 30, 2012, the 'ACC-eligible compensation' described in clause II of this subparagraph shall be considered in determining the Participant's Restoration Credit for 2012 only if the Participant's Termination of Employment (i) occurs when the Participant meets the requirements for Rule of 60, (ii) is because of an involuntary termination of employment by an Affiliated Group Member that entitles the Participant to severance pay under the Bank of America Corporate Severance Program, (iii) is in connection with a divestiture by the Company or any Affiliated Group Member, or (iv) is a result of the Participant's death.  
       
  5.    Section 2.3(d)(i) of the Plan is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
            (i) 
    Any portion of a Legacy West Participant's Restoration Account attributable to benefits accruing before July 1, 1985 is not directable and is not subject to the rules regarding Restoration Account adjustments described in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section, but shall instead be credited with interest at the rate described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this Paragraph as follows: 
       
    2    

(A) 
    a rate of 11% until the earlier of the Legacy West Participant's Delink Calculation Date or June 30, 2012; and 
       
           (B) 
    For a Legacy West Participant with a Delink Calculation Date after June 30, 2012, a rate of 8% for periods after June 30, 2012 until the Legacy West Participant's Delink Calculation Date.  
       
  6.    A new paragraph (v) is hereby added to Section 2.4(c) to read in its entirety as follows: 
            (v) 
    For purposes of determining Amount A in paragraph (i) of this subsection and notwithstanding any provision of this Section or the Plan to the contrary, no compensation paid after June 30, 2012 shall be taken into account.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America Corporation, on behalf of all of the Participating Employers, has caused this Instrument to be duly executed on the 29 day of June, 2012. 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  By:   /s/ Mark S. Behnke               
  Mark S. Behnke 
  Global Compensation, Benefits and  
  Shared Services Executive 

3    

</EX-10.A>

<EX-10.C>
 3
 bac-12312012x10kex10c.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 10 (c) 

Exhibit 10 (c)    

BANK OF AMERICA 401(K) RESTORATION PLAN 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2013) 

BANK OF AMERICA 401(K) RESTORATION PLAN 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATE EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2013) 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS  

i 

ii 

5.13 
    Limited Effect Of Restatement 
    25 

5.14 
    Binding Effect 
    26 

I. 
    Special Rules Applicable to Former Participants of and Balances Merged from the ABN AMRO Group Supplemental Savings Plan ("SSP"): 
    28 

II. 
    Special Rules Applicable to Former Participants of and Balances Merged from the Countrywide Financial Corporation Supplemental Savings and Investment Deferred Compensation Plan ( SSIP ): 
    29 

iii 

BANK OF AMERICA 401(K) RESTORATION PLAN 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2013) 
  THIS INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT is executed by BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation  
  Statement of Purpose 
  The Corporation sponsors the Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan (the  Restoration Plan ). The purpose of the Restoration Plan is to provide benefits, on a non-qualified and unfunded basis, to certain associates whose benefits under The Bank of America 401(k) Plan or The Bank of America 401(k) Plan for Legacy Companies are adversely affected by the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17), 401(k)(3), 401(m), 402(g) and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code, as well as any other limitations that may be placed on highly compensated participants under such plans. 
  The Corporation is amending and restating the Restoration Plan effective January 1, 2013 as set forth herein to (i) reflect certain design changes to the Restoration Plan and (ii) otherwise meet current needs. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, for the purposes aforesaid, the Corporation hereby amends and restates the Restoration Plan effective January 1, 2013 to consist of the following Articles I  through V: 

ARTICLE I  
  DEFINITIONS  
  Unless defined herein, any word, phrase or term used in the Restoration Plan shall have the meaning given to it in the 401(k) Plan. However, the following terms have the following meanings unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:  
  1.1    Account  
  Collectively, the Deferral Account, Matching Contribution Restoration Account, Make-up Contribution Restoration Account and a predecessor company Account (if any).  
  1.2    Associate 
  A common law employee of a Participating Employer who is identified as an employee in the personnel records of the Participating Employer. 
  1.3    Base Salary  
  The portion of the Eligible Associate's compensation treated as base salary or wages by the Eligible Associate's Participating Employer, or for an Eligible Associate who receives commissions, the portion of the Eligible Associate's compensation treated as draw by the Eligible Associate's Participating Employer.   
  1.4    Beneficiary 
  The  Beneficiary  of a Participant under the 401(k) Plan unless the Participant elects a different Beneficiary for purposes of the Restoration Plan in accordance with such procedures as the Global Human Resources Group may establish from time to time. If there is no Beneficiary election in effect under the 401(k) Plan or the Restoration Plan at the time of a Participant's death, or if the designated Beneficiary fails to survive the Participant, then the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's surviving spouse, or if there is no surviving spouse, the Participant's estate. 
  1.5    Class Year Deferrals 
           (a) 
    For each Plan Year, the deferrals of a Participant's Base Salary under Section 2.3(b) for the Plan Year plus the deferral under Section 2.3(c) of any portion of the Participant's Eligible Incentive Award earned for services rendered during the Plan Year, including any related adjustments for deemed investments in accordance   with Section 2.5. 
              (b) 
    In   addition, in accordance with Section 2.8(a)(ii), all matching contributions credited to the Restoration Plan for a Participant after 2005 under Section 2.4 plus any other amounts credited to the Restoration Plan for the Participant after 2005  

2 

under Section 2.12, including any related adjustments for deemed investments in accordance with Section 2.5, shall collectively constitute one separate set of Class Year Deferrals for the Participant. 
           (c) 
    In addition, in accordance with Section 2.8(a)(iii), all make-up contributions credited to the Restoration Plan for a Participant under Section 2.4(d), including any related adjustments for deemed investments in accordance with Section 2.5, shall collectively constitute one separate set of Class Year Deferrals for the Participant. 
     1.6    Code  
  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986. References to the Code shall include the valid and binding governmental regulations, court decisions and other regulatory and judicial authority issued or rendered thereunder. 
  1.7    Committee  
  The committee designated pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Restoration Plan. 
  1.8    Completion Incentive 
  An incentive award payable to an Eligible Associate upon completion of an assignment outside the United States, which incentive award relates to one or more Plan Years, all pursuant to an incentive arrangement approved for purposes of the Restoration Plan by the Committee. 
  1.9    Corporation  
  Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto. 
  1.10    Deferral Account  
  The account established and maintained on the books of a Participating Employer to record a Participant's interest under the Restoration Plan attributable to amounts credited to the Participant pursuant to Section 2.3. 
  1.11    EIP 
  The Bank of America Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, as in effect from time to time. 
  1.12    Eligible Associate  
  For a Plan Year, an Associate who the Global Human Resources Group has determined satisfies the eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.1 for the Plan Year. 

3 

1.13    Eligible Incentive Award  
           (a) 
    Any commissions; and  
              (b) 
    Any incentive awards payable in cash pursuant to (i) the Bank of America Executive Incentive Compensation Plan or (ii) any other incentive compensation plan of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries approved for purposes of this Restoration Plan by the Committee. Eligible Incentive Awards may be payable annually, quarterly, or on such other basis as provided by the applicable plan.  Eligible Incentive Awards shall not include contest prizes, hiring, retention or employment referral bonuses, one-time bonuses (other than special pay bonuses), suggestion program awards, long-term cash awards or any severance or similar benefits. 
     1.14    ERISA 
  The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. References to ERISA shall include the valid and binding governmental regulations, court decisions and other regulatory and judicial authority issued or rendered thereunder. 
  1.15    401(k) Plan 
  With respect to an Eligible Associate, the applicable tax-qualified 401(k) plan in which the Eligible Associate participates: namely, either The Bank of America 401(k) Plan or The Bank of America 401(k) Plan for Legacy Companies, as such plans are in effect from time to time. 
  1.16    Global Human Resources Group 
  The Global Human Resources Group of the Corporation. 
  1.17    Make-up Contribution Restoration Account 
  The account established and maintained on the books of a Participating Employer to record a Participant's interest under the Restoration Plan attributable to amounts credited to the Participant pursuant to Section 2.4(d) of the Restoration Plan. 
  1.18    Matchable Compensation  
  The total gross Base Salary and Eligible Incentive Awards payable to a Participant during the portion of a Plan Year (if any) during which the Participant is eligible to receive matching contributions under the 401(k) Plan; provided, however, that in no event shall Matchable Compensation for the Plan Year exceed the applicable limit described in Section 4.4(a)(v) of the 401(k) Plan.   

4 

1.19    Matching Contribution Restoration Account  
  The account established and maintained on the books of a Participating Employer to record a Participant's interest under the Restoration Plan attributable to amounts credited to the Participant pursuant to Section 2.4(b) or Section 2.4(c) of the Restoration Plan. 
  1.20    MFIP  
  The Columbia Management Group Mutual Fund Incentive Plan adopted by the Corporation, as in effect from time to time. 
  1.21    Participant 
  An Eligible Associate who has elected to participate in the Restoration Plan for a Plan Year, or any other current or former Associate who has an Account balance under the Restoration Plan. 
  1.22    Participating Employer  
           (a) 
    The Corporation; 
              (b) 
    Each other  Participating Employer  under (and as defined in) the 401(k) Plan on the date hereof; 
              (c)  
    Any other incorporated or unincorporated trade or business which may hereafter adopt both the 401(k) Plan and the Restoration Plan.   
     In addition, the Global Human Resources Group, in its sole and exclusive discretion, may designate certain other entities as  Participating Employers  under the Restoration Plan for such purposes as the Global Human Resources Group may determine from time to time.  
  1.23    Plan Year 
  The 12-month period commencing January 1 and ending the following December 31. 
  1.24    Pre-2005 Account 
  Deferrals, matching contributions or any other contributions that were credited to the Restoration Plan prior to 2005, including any related adjustments for deemed investments in accordance with Section 2.5. 
  1.25    Restoration Plan 
  The Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan as in effect from time to time.  

5 

1.26    Rule of 60 
  At the time of Termination of Employment, a Participant's having (i) completed at least 10 years of Vesting Service; and (ii) attained a combined age and years of Vesting Service equal to at least 60. 
  1.27    Termination of Employment (or to Terminate Employment) 
  For the purposes of the Restoration Plan, whether a  Termination of Employment  has occurred shall be determined consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the Bank of America 409A Policy. 
  1.28    2005 Account 
           (a) 
    Deferrals, matching contributions or any other contributions that were credited to the Restoration Plan during 2005; plus  
              (b)  
    Any deferral of an Eligible Incentive Award for performance year 2005 credited to the Restoration Plan after 2005; 
     in each case including any related adjustments for deemed investments in accordance with Section 2.5. 

6 

ARTICLE II 
  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROVISIONS 
    
  2.1    Eligibility 
           (a) 
    Determination of Eligible Associates  : Prior to each Plan Year, or at such other times as the Global Human Resources Group shall determine consistent with applicable law, the Global Human Resources Group shall determine which Associates shall be Eligible Associates for such Plan Year in accordance with the provisions of this Section.   
              (b) 
    Eligible Associates  : An Associate shall be an Eligible Associate with respect to a Plan Year if the Global Human Resources Group determines that the Associate either:   
              (i) 
    Has an annual rate of Base Salary as of the date of eligibility determination equal to or exceeding the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for the previous Plan Year; or  
              (ii) 
    Had total compensation for the one-year period immediately prior to the date of eligibility determination equal to or exceeding the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for the previous Plan Year.   
     A newly hired Associate shall not be an Eligible Associate unless and until the Associate satisfies the foregoing eligibility requirements for the Plan Year after the Plan Year in which the Associate is hired.   
           (c) 
    Administrative Procedures  : The Global Human Resources Group, in its discretion, shall establish the administrative procedures with respect to the foregoing eligibility determinations, including without limitation the measurement of total compensation for any period and whether such measurement is of total cash compensation only or total cash compensation plus any special equity awards paid during the one-year measurement period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Global Human Resources Group may, in its discretion, determine that an Associate or group of Associates who otherwise meet the foregoing requirements are nonetheless ineligible to participate in the Restoration Plan. 
     2.2    Form and Time of Elections 
  Each Eligible Associate for a Plan Year may elect to defer under the Restoration Plan such amounts as provided by this Article II in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.2. Such deferral elections shall be made prior to January 1 of the Plan Year. All elections made under this Section 2.2 shall be made in writing on a form, or pursuant to such other non-written procedures, as may be prescribed from time to time by the Global  

7 

Human Resources Group and shall be irrevocable for such Plan Year;   provided  ,   however  , if an Eligible Associate receives a hardship distribution from the 401(k) Plan (or any other Code Section 401(k) plan maintained by the Corporation or any Affiliated Group Member) pursuant to Treas. Reg. Section 1.401(k)-1(d)(3): (a) the Eligible Associate shall not be entitled to defer any Base Salary or Eligible Incentive Award pursuant to the Restoration Plan during the 6-month period beginning upon the Eligible Associate's receipt of the hardship distribution (such period, the  Suspension Period ), (b) any existing election by the Eligible Associate to defer Base Salary or an Eligible Incentive Award under the Restoration Plan shall be cancelled, in accordance with Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(viii), to the extent necessary to prohibit such deferrals during the Suspension Period, and (c) no subsequent election by the Eligible Associate to defer Base Salary or an Eligible Incentive Award pursuant to the Restoration Plan shall become effective prior to the end of the Suspension Period. An election by an Eligible Associate under this Section 2.2 shall continue in effect for all subsequent Plan Years (during which the Eligible Associate remains an Eligible Associate) unless and until changed or terminated by the Eligible Associate in accordance with procedures established from time to time by the Global Human Resources Group. Any such change in or termination of an election under this Section 2.2 shall be effective as of the January 1 of the next succeeding Plan Year and shall be irrevocable for such Plan Year. If an Eligible Associate elects to participate in the Restoration Plan for a Plan Year, Terminates Employment during the Plan Year and is subsequently re-hired during the same Plan Year as an Eligible Associate, the election to defer under the Restoration Plan with respect to such Plan Year that was in effect prior to Termination of Employment shall remain in effect for the Plan Year after the re-hire date. 
  2.3    Deferrals 
           (a)    
    Deferral Accounts  : A Participating Employer shall establish and maintain on its books a Deferral Account for each Eligible Associate employed by such Participating Employer who elects pursuant to Section 2.2 to defer the receipt of any amount under     the Restoration Plan. Such Deferral Account shall be designated by the name of the Eligible Associate for whom established. The amount to be deferred under this Section 2.3 for a payroll period shall be credited to such Deferral Account on, or as soon as administratively practicable after, the payroll date. See Section 2.10 regarding the effect of  catch-up  contribution elections under the 401(k) Plan. 
              (b)    
    Election to Defer Base Salary  : An Eligible Associate for a Plan Year may elect pursuant to Section 2.2 to defer up to 50% of the Eligible Associate's Base Salary for the Plan Year. Any such deferral of an Eligible Associate's Base Salary for a payroll period shall be made first before any deferral of Base Salary is made to the 401(k) Plan for such payroll period. Any portion of an Eligible Associate's Base Salary not deferred under the Restoration Plan shall be included in the Eligible Associate's compensation under the 401(k) Plan in accordance with, and subject to, the terms and provisions of the 401(k) Plan (and therefore shall be included in determining the amount of the Eligible Associate's pre-tax retirement savings  

8 

contributions and/or designated Roth contributions or employer contributions under the 401(k) Plan). Amounts deferred under the Restoration Plan shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining contributions or allocations under the 401(k) Plan.  
           (c) 
    Election to Defer Eligible Incentive Awards  : Each Eligible Associate for a Plan Year may elect pursuant to Section 2.2 to defer up to 90% of any Eligible Incentive Award otherwise payable to the Eligible Associate for services rendered during the Plan Year (regardless of whether the Eligible Incentive Award is payable during or after the applicable Plan Year). Any such deferral of an Eligible Associate's Eligible Incentive Award shall be made first before any deferral of such Eligible Incentive Award is made to the 401(k) Plan. Any portion of an Eligible Incentive Award not deferred under the Restoration Plan shall be included in the Eligible Associate's compensation under the 401(k) Plan in accordance with, and subject to, the terms and provisions of the 401(k) Plan (and therefore shall be included in determining the amount of the Eligible Associate's pre-tax retirement savings contributions and/or designated Roth contributions or employer contributions under the 401(k) Plan). Amounts deferred under the Restoration Plan shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining contributions or allocations under the 401(k) Plan. 
     2.4    Matching and Make-up Contributions 
           (a)    
    Matching Contribution Restoration Account and Make-up Contribution Restoration Account  : A Participating Employer shall establish and maintain on its books a Matching Contribution Restoration Account and/or a Make-up Contribution Restoration Account for each Eligible Associate employed by such Participating Employer who is credited with a matching and/or make-up contribution under this Section 2.4. Such Matching Contribution Restoration Account and/or Make-up Contribution Restoration Account shall be designated by the name of the Eligible Associate for whom established. 
              (b)    
    Matching Contributions for Restoration Plan Deferrals  : Subject to the provisions of Section 2.4(e), if a Participant defers any amount under the Restoration Plan during a Plan Year in which the Participant is eligible to receive matching contributions under the 401(k) Plan, the Participant shall be eligible to be credited with a matching contribution to the Participant's Matching Contribution Restoration Account for the Plan Year. The amount of the matching contribution shall equal Amount A less Amount B (but not less than zero), where: 
              (i) 
    Amount A   equals 5% multiplied   by the Participant's Matchable Compensation for the Plan Year; and 
              (ii) 
    Amount B   equals the aggregate amount of matching contributions that would have been allocated to the Participant's account under the 401(k) Plan for   each payroll period ending during the Plan Year plus the amount  

9 

of any additional  true-up  match that would have been allocated under the 401(k) Plan for the Plan Year if the Participant had contributed at least 5% of  Compensation  (as defined in the 401(k) Plan) for the Plan Year. 
  Not in limitation but in amplification of the preceding provisions of this subsection, and for the avoidance of doubt, the matching contribution calculation described above in this subsection   will only result in a matching contribution under the Restoration Plan if, as a result of deferrals to the Restoration Plan, the Participant's  Compensation  (as defined in the 401(k) Plan) is reduced to an amount that is below the applicable limit described in Section 4.4(a)(v) of the 401(k) Plan.   Matching contributions under the Restoration Plan shall be determined and credited as soon as administratively practicable following the end of the applicable Plan Year.  
           (c)    
    Matching Contributions for EIP and MFIP Awards  :  Under the EIP, a percentage of an eligible Associate's annual incentive award earned for a performance period beginning on or after January 1, 2002 may be made in the form of an award of (i) restricted stock shares or restricted stock units granted under the Bank of America Corporation 2003 Key Associate Stock Plan (or any successor stock plan) or (ii) long-term cash. Similarly, under the MFIP, a percentage of an eligible Associate's annual incentive award earned for a performance period beginning on or after January 1, 2006 may be made in the form of an award of (i) restricted mutual fund units granted under the MFIP or (ii) long-term cash. The remaining portion of the Associate's annual incentive award may be payable in current cash that is not subject to a vesting schedule. Only the portion of the Associate's annual incentive award payable in current cash, if any, is eligible for deferral under the 401(k) Plan or the Restoration Plan. However, for an Associate covered by the EIP or the MFIP who is eligible to receive matching contributions under the 401(k) Plan at the time when the current cash portion, if any, of such annual incentive award is payable, the Associate's Participating Employer shall credit to the Participant's Matching Contribution Restoration Account an amount equal to 5% of the  Principal Amount  (as defined in the EIP and the MFIP), if any, with respect to such annual incentive award; provided, however, that in no event shall the combined matching contributions under Section 2.4(b), this Section 2.4(c) and the matching contributions the Participant would have received under the 401(k) Plan for the Plan Year if the Participant had contributed at least 5% of  Compensation  (as defined in the 401(k) Plan) for the Plan Year, exceed 5% of the applicable limit described in Section 4.4(a)(v) of the 401(k) Plan. For purposes of this Section, the EIP Principal Amount, if any, for an Associate who is in Band 0 shall be the amount communicated to the Global Human Resources Group by the Corporation's Executive Compensation group as the EIP Principal Amount, if any. 
              (d) 
    Make-up Contributions for Certain Legacy U.S. Trust Participants  : For a Participant whose deferrals to the Restoration Plan reduce the amount of the  

10 

Participant's account benefit accruals under the Bank of America Pension Plan for Legacy U.S. Trust for a given Plan Year, the Participant's Participating Employer shall credit to the Participant's Make-up Contribution Restoration Account an amount equal to 5% of the amount by which the Participant's plan-eligible compensation under the Bank of America Pension Plan for Legacy U.S. Trust was reduced because of the Participant's deferrals to the Restoration Plan. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no additional amounts shall be credited to any Participant's Make-up Contribution Restoration Account for periods beginning on and after July 1, 2012. 
           (e) 
    Payroll Taxes  : The Global Human Resources Group may determine, in its sole and exclusive discretion, to deduct from the amount otherwise to be credited to the Matching Contribution Restoration Account and/or Make-up Contribution Restoration Account of a Participant for a Plan Year an amount necessary to pay any related payroll taxes. 
     2.5    Account Adjustments 
           (a)    
    Account Adjustments for Deemed Investments  : The Committee shall from time to time designate one or more investment vehicle(s) in which the Accounts of Participants shall be deemed to be invested. The investment vehicle(s) may be designated by reference to the investments available under other plans sponsored by a Participating Employer (including the 401(k) Plan). Each Participant shall designate the investment vehicle(s) in which his or her Account shall be deemed to be invested according to the procedures developed by the Global Human Resources Group, except as otherwise required by the terms of the Restoration Plan. No Participating Employer shall be under an obligation to acquire or invest in any of the deemed investment vehicle(s) under this subparagraph, and any acquisition of or investment in a deemed investment vehicle by a Participating Employer shall be made in the name of the Participating Employer and shall remain the sole property of the Participating Employer. The Committee shall also establish from time to time a default fund into which a Participant's Account shall be deemed to be invested if the Participant fails to provide investment instructions pursuant to this Section 2.5(a). Effective January 1, 2009, such default fund shall be the applicable investment vehicle determined pursuant to the terms of the 401(k) Plan's default investment provisions.  
              (b) 
    Periodic Account Adjustments  : Each Account shall be adjusted from time to time at such intervals as determined by the Global Human Resources Group. The Global Human Resources Group may determine the frequency of account adjustments by reference to the frequency of account adjustments under another plan sponsored by a Participating Employer. The amount of the adjustment shall equal the amount that each Participant's Account would have earned (or lost) for the period since the last adjustment had the Account actually been invested in the 401(k) Plan in the deemed investment vehicle(s) designated by the Participant for  

11 

such period pursuant to Section 2.5(a). The Global Human Resources Group may establish any limitations on the frequency in which Participants may make investment designations under this Section 2.5 as the Global Human Resources Group may determine necessary or appropriate from time to time, including limitations related to frequent trading or market timing activities.  
  2.6    Vesting of Accounts 
  All Deferral Accounts and Make-up Contribution Accounts are fully (100%) vested.  Because all 401(k) matching contributions are fully (100%) vested as of January 1, 2005, all Matching Contribution Restoration Accounts shall be fully (100%) vested for any active Associate who participates in the Restoration Plan from and after January 1, 2005.  The vesting provisions of the Restoration Plan as in effect prior to January 1, 2005 shall continue to apply to any Associate who Terminated Employment with the Participating Employers prior to January 1, 2005. 
  2.7    Special Payment Elections 
  Each Participant who was in the active service of a Participating Employer on any date during 2005 was given the opportunity during 2005 to make a payment election applicable separately to the Participant's (i) Pre-2005 Account and (ii) 2005 Account. The Participant could in each case elect from among the class year payment options set forth in Section 2.8(b), and such election was immediately effective. In the event a Participant covered by this Section 2.7 failed to make a payment election with respect to either the Participant's Pre-2005 Account or 2005 Account, as applicable, the payment method shall be (x) the payment method most recently elected by the Participant under the Restoration Plan according to the records of the Global Human Resources Group, even if that prior payment election had not yet become effective, or (y) in the absence of any such prior payment election, a lump sum payment following Termination of Employment as set forth in Section 2.8(b). Any subsequent change to such payment election must comply with the requirements of Section 2.8(c). Payments pursuant to such election shall otherwise be subject to the requirements of Section 2.8, including without limitation the default lump sum payment rules of Section 2.8(d) and the special rules for certain  specified employees  pursuant to Section 2.8(i).  
  2.8    Distribution Provisions  
           (a) 
    Class Year Payment Elections 
              (i) 
    Class Year Deferrals  :  A Participant for a Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2006 shall elect from among the available forms of payment set forth in Section 2.8(b) the form of payment that shall apply to the Class Year Deferrals for such Plan Year. The class year payment election shall be made coincident with the deferral elections under Sections 2.3(b) and 2.3(c) for such Plan Year.   

12 

(ii) 
    Matching Contributions  : As to the Class Year Deferrals comprised of all matching contributions credited after 2005 pursuant to Section 2.4 or any other amounts credited after 2005 pursuant to Section 2.12 for a Participant, the applicable class year payment election shall be made by the Participant coincident with the first time the Participant makes a deferral election under the Restoration Plan for any Plan Year beginning on or after January 1, 2006. Notwithstanding any provision of the Restoration Plan to the contrary, except for a withdrawal on account of an unforeseeable emergency pursuant to Section 2.8(h), such Class Year Deferrals shall not be payable until the Participant has Terminated Employment. 
              (iii) 
    Make-up Contributions  : Notwithstanding any provision of the Restoration Plan to the contrary, except for a withdrawal on account of an unforeseeable emergency pursuant to Section 2.8(h), the Class Year Deferrals comprised of all make-up contributions credited pursuant to Section 2.4(d) for a Participant shall be payable as a lump sum payment following Termination of Employment as set forth in Section (b) unless the Participant changes the time of such payment pursuant to Section 2.8     (c). In no event shall a Participant be able to change the form of such payment. 
              (b) 
    Available Forms of Payment  : A Participant shall select from among the following forms of payment for each set of Class Year Deferrals. The Participant must select a single form of payment applicable to each set of Class Year Deferrals (i.e., a set of Class Year Deferrals may not be  split  among more than one form of payment): 
              (i)    
    Lump Sum Payment Following Termination of Employment  : The balance of the applicable Class Year Deferrals shall be payable following the Participant's Termination of Employment in a single cash payment.  
              (ii)  
    Lump Sum Payment In Specified Year  :  The balance of the applicable Class Year Deferrals shall be payable in the calendar year elected by the Participant, not to exceed the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 75, in a single cash payment. 
              (iii)  
    Lump Sum Payment Upon Later of Termination of Employment or Specified Year  : The balance of the applicable Class Year Deferrals shall be payable upon the later of the Participant's Termination of Employment or the calendar year elected by the Participant, not to exceed the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 75, in a single cash payment. 
              (iv) 
    Annual Installments Following Termination of Employment  : The balance of the applicable Class Year Deferrals shall be payable following the Participant's Termination of Employment in annual installment payments over a period of years selected by the Participant not to exceed ten (10).  

13 

(v) 
    Annual Installments Commencing In Specified Year  : The balance of the applicable Class Year Deferrals shall be payable commencing in the calendar year elected by the Participant, not to exceed the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 75, in annual installment payments over a period of years selected by the Participant not to exceed ten (10). 
              (vi) 
    Annual Installments Commencing Upon Later of Termination of Employment or Specified Year  : The balance of the applicable Class Year Deferrals shall be payable commencing upon the later of the Participant's Termination of Employment or the calendar year elected by the Participant, not to exceed the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 75, in annual installment payments over a period of years selected by the Participant not to exceed ten (10). 
     A Participant who fails to make a class year payment election for a set of Class Year Deferrals in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.8(b) shall be deemed to have elected for such set of Class Year Deferrals     a lump sum payment following Termination of Employment. 
           (c)    
    Subsequent Changes to Payment Elections  : A Participant may change the time or form of payment elected under Section 2.8(b), or the time or form of payment subsequently elected under this Section 2.8(c), with respect to a set of Class Year Deferrals only if (i) such election is made at least 12 months prior to January 1 of the Plan Year in which the payment of the Class Year Deferrals would have otherwise commenced and (ii) the effect of such election is to defer commencement of such payments by at least 5 years.  
              (d)    
    Default Lump Sum Payment  : Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, a Participant's entire Account balance shall be payable in a single cash payment following the Participant's Termination of Employment if, as of the Participant's date of Termination of Employment, either (i) the amount of the Participant's Account balance equals $50,000 or less or (ii) the Participant had less than 60 months of Vesting Service.   
              (e)    
    Timing of Lump Sum Payments  : 
              (i) 
    Lump Sum Payment Following Termination of Employment  : Class Year Deferrals payable as a lump following a Participant's Termination of Employment shall be paid in a single cash payment to the Participant within ninety (90) days following the end of the Plan Year in which the Termination of Employment occurs; provided, however, that if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's Termination of Employment until after the end of the Plan Year in which such Termination of Employment occurs, then payment shall be made by the end of the Plan Year following the Plan Year of Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Class Year Deferrals comprised of  

14 

all matching contributions credited after 2005 pursuant to Section 2.4 or any other amounts credited after 2005 pursuant to Section 2.12 for a Participant are payable as a lump sum following a Participant's Termination of Employment, any matching contributions credited after the payment date described in the immediately preceding sentence shall be paid in a single cash payment to the Participant within ninety (90) days following the end of the Plan Year in which such matching contributions are credited.  The Class Year Deferrals shall continue to be credited with adjustments under Section 2.5 as follows: 
           (A) 
    if the Participant Terminated Employment having satisfied the Rule of 60, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the last business day immediately preceding the payment date; and   
              (B) 
    for any other Participant, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant Terminates Employment (or, if applicable, through the end of a subsequent calendar year as determined by the Global Human Resources Group if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's Termination of Employment until after the end of the Plan Year in which such Termination of Employment occurs), and thereafter through the last business day immediately preceding the payment date the Class Year Deferrals shall be deemed invested in the Stable Value Fund.  
              (ii)    
    Lump Sum Payment In Specified Year  : For any Class Year Deferrals payable as a lump sum in a specified year elected by a Participant, the Participant shall be paid during the first ninety (90) days of the applicable Plan Year of payment elected by the Participant a single cash payment in an amount equal to the balance of the Class Year Deferrals as of the last business day immediately preceding the payment date. If the Plan Year of payment is after the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, then:   
              (A)  
    if the Participant Terminated Employment having satisfied the Rule of 60, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the last business day immediately preceding the payment date; and  
              (B)  
    for any other Participant, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles 

15 

pursuant to Section 2.5 through the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant Terminates Employment (or, if applicable, through the end of a subsequent calendar year as determined by the Global Human Resources Group if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's Termination of Employment until after the end of the Plan Year in which such Termination of Employment occurs), and thereafter through the last business day immediately preceding the payment date the Class Year Deferrals shall be deemed invested in Stable Value Fund.  
           (f) 
    Timing of Annual Installments  : 
              (i) 
    Annual Installments Following Termination of Employment  : For any Class Year Deferrals payable as annual installments following Termination of Employment, the first installment shall be paid within ninety (90) days following the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant Terminates Employment with the Participating Employers; provided, however, that if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's Termination of Employment until after the Plan Year in which the Termination of Employment occurs, then the first installment shall be paid by the end of the Plan Year following the Plan Year of Termination of Employment. Each subsequent installment shall be paid within ninety (90) days following the end of each subsequent Plan Year during the selected payment period. The amount of each installment payment shall equal the balance of the Class Year Deferrals as of the last business day immediately preceding the applicable payment date divided by the number of remaining installments (including the installment then payable). For a Participant who Terminates Employment with the Participating Employers having satisfied the Rule of 60, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the last business day immediately preceding the final payment.  For any other Participant, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant Terminates Employment (or, if applicable, through the end of a subsequent calendar year as determined by the Global Human Resources Group if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's Termination of Employment until after the end of the Plan Year in which such Termination of Employment occurs), and thereafter until the last business day immediately preceding the final payment the Class Year Deferrals shall be deemed invested in the Stable Value Fund.  
              (ii) 
    Annual Installments Commencing In Specified Year  : For any Class Year Deferrals payable as annual installments commencing in a specified year elected by a Participant, the first annual installment shall be payable during  

16 

the first ninety (90) days of the applicable Plan Year of commencement elected by the Participant. Each subsequent installment shall be paid within ninety (90) days following the end of each subsequent Plan Year during the selected payment period. The amount of each installment payment shall equal the balance of the Class Year Deferrals as of last business day immediately preceding the applicable payment date divided by the number of remaining installments (including the installment then payable). If the Participant Terminates Employment with the Participating Employers before or during the installment payment period, then:  
           (A) 
    if the Participant Terminated Employment having satisfied the Rule of 60, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the last business day immediately preceding the final payment; and for any other Participant, the Participant shall continue to be eligible to elect from among the available deemed investment vehicles pursuant to Section 2.5 through the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant Terminates Employment (or, if applicable, through the end of a subsequent calendar year as determined by the Global Human Resources Group if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's Termination of Employment until after the end of the Plan Year in which such Termination of Employment occurs), and thereafter until the last business day immediately preceding the final payment the Class Year Deferrals shall be deemed invested in the Stable Value Fund.  
              (g) 
    Death of a Participant  : If a Participant dies before having been paid the entire balance of the Participant's Account (including a Participant receiving installment payments), the remaining unpaid balance of the Account shall be payable to the Participant's Beneficiary in a single cash payment within ninety (90) days following the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant dies; provided, however, that if the Global Human Resources Group is not notified of a Participant's death until more than ninety (90) days after the end of the Plan Year in which such death occurs, then payment shall be made within ninety (90) days after the end of the Plan Year in which such notice of death is received by the Global Human Resources Group. The Account shall be deemed invested in the Stable Value Fund from the date notice of death is received by the Global Human Resources Group until the last business day immediately preceding the final payment of the Account. 
              (h) 
    Withdrawals on Account of an Unforeseeable Emergency  : A Participant may, in the Global Human Resources Group's sole discretion, receive a refund of all or any part of the amounts previously credited to the Participant's Accounts in the case of an  unforeseeable emergency.  A Participant requesting a payment pursuant to this Section shall have the burden of proof of establishing, to the Global  

17 

Human Resources Group's satisfaction, the existence of such  unforeseeable emergency,  and the amount of the payment needed to satisfy the same. In that regard, the Participant shall provide the Global Human Resources Group with such financial data and information as the Global Human Resources Group may request.  If the Global Human Resources Group determines that a payment should be made to a Participant under this Section, such payment shall be made within a reasonable time after the Global Human Resources Group's determination of the existence of such  unforeseeable emergency  and the amount of payment so needed. The Global Human Resources Group may in its discretion establish the order in which amounts shall be withdrawn under this Section from a Participant's Accounts. As used herein, the term  unforeseeable emergency  means a severe financial hardship to a Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or of a dependent of the Participant, loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant.  The circumstances that shall constitute an  unforeseeable emergency  shall depend upon the facts of each case, but, in any case, payment may not be made to the extent that such hardship is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, or (ii) by liquidation of the Participant's assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship. Examples of what are not considered to be  unforeseeable emergencies  include the need to send a Participant's child to college or the purchase of a home. Withdrawals of amounts because of an  unforeseeable emergency  shall not exceed an amount reasonably needed to satisfy the emergency need. The Global Human Resources Group shall also permit an  unforeseeable emergency  request to be made under this subsection (h) by a Participant's Beneficiary following the Participant's death. 
           (i) 
    Special Provisions for  Specified Employees   : Notwithstanding any provision in the Restoration Plan to the contrary, to the extent applicable, in no event shall any payment hereunder be made to a  specified employee  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and the Bank of America 409A Policy earlier than 6 months after the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, except in connection with the Participant's death. 
     2.9    General Payment Provisions 
           (a)    
    Payments for Participants Who Terminated Employment Prior to 2005  :  Payments to any Participant who Terminated Employment prior to 2005 shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Restoration Plan as in effect prior to 2005. 
              (b)    
    Other Payment Provisions  : To be effective, any elections under Sections 2.7 or 2.8 shall be made on such form, at such time and pursuant to such procedures as determined by the Global Human Resources Group in its sole discretion from time  

18 

to time. Any deferral or payment hereunder shall be subject to applicable payroll and withholding taxes. In the event any amount becomes payable under the provisions of the Restoration Plan to a Participant, Beneficiary or other person who is a minor or an incompetent, whether or not declared incompetent by a court, such amount may be paid directly to the minor or incompetent person or to such person's fiduciary (or attorney-in-fact in the case of an incompetent) as the Global Human Resources Group, in its sole discretion, may decide, and the Global Human Resources Group shall not be liable to any person for any such decision or any payment pursuant thereto. 
  2.10    Catch-Up Contributions 
  Certain Eligible Associates may become eligible under the 401(k) Plan to make  catch-up  contributions (within the meaning of Section 414(v) of the Code). Any such catch-up contributions made to the 401(k) Plan shall not in any manner affect the determination of the amount of deferrals to the Restoration Plan under Section 2.3. Instead, such catch-up contributions shall be in addition to the aggregate combined deferrals elected to the 401(k) Plan and Restoration Plan hereunder. 
  2.11    Special Provisions Related to Completion Incentives 
  For an Eligible Associate who receives a Completion Incentive in a Plan Year which relates to one or more prior Plan Years, the following provisions shall apply: 
           (a) 
    The Global Human Resources Group, upon consultation with the appropriate business unit, shall allocate the Completion Incentive among the applicable Plan Years for which it was deemed earned. 
              (b)  
    Any deferral under Section 2.3 shall be determined separately with respect to the Restoration Plan deferral election (if any) in effect for each Plan Year for which the Completion Incentive was deemed earned. The applicable Restoration Plan deferral election in effect for each such Plan Year shall be applied against the portion of the Completion Incentive allocated to such Plan Year under subparagraph (a). Any such portion of the Completion Incentive deferred under the Restoration Plan with respect to a Plan Year shall be part of the Class Year Deferrals for that Plan Year.   
              (c)  
    Each deferral to the Restoration Plan with respect to the Completion Incentive determined under subparagraph (b) shall be eligible for a matching contribution under the Restoration Plan in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of Section 2.4. Such matching contributions shall be determined separately with respect to each Plan Year for which the Completion Incentive was deemed earned. 
              (d)  
    Although the Completion Incentive may relate to one or more prior Plan Years, the related deferrals and matching contributions to be made under subparagraphs (b) and (c) shall be credited in an administratively reasonable time following  

19 

notification to the Global Human Resources Group of the Completion Incentive having been paid without any adjustment for earnings. 
  2.12    Other Contributions 
  The Participating Employers may from time to time, in their sole and exclusive discretion, elect to credit a Participant's Account with additional amounts not otherwise contemplated by this Article II. 

20 

ARTICLE III  
    
  PLAN ADMINISTRATION 
    
  3.1    Committee 
  The Restoration Plan shall be administered by the  committee  under (and as defined in) the 401(k) Plan (although certain provisions of the Restoration Plan shall be administered by the Global Human Resources Group as specified herein). The Committee shall have full discretionary authority to interpret the provisions of the Restoration Plan, and decide all questions and settle all disputes which may arise in connection with the Restoration Plan, and may establish its own operative and administrative rules and procedures in connection therewith, provided such procedures are consistent with the requirements of Section 503 of ERISA. All interpretations, decisions and determinations made by the Committee will be binding on all persons concerned. No member of the Committee who is a Participant in the Restoration Plan may vote or otherwise participate in any decision or act with respect to a matter relating solely to such member (or to such member's Beneficiaries). Not in limitation, but in amplification, of the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Committee has the duty and power to modify or supplement any Restoration Plan accounting method, practice or procedure, make any adjustments to accounts or modify or supplement any other aspect of the operation or administration of the Restoration Plan in such manner and to such extent consistent with and permitted by the Code that the Committee deems necessary or appropriate to correct errors and mistakes, to effect proper and equitable account adjustments or otherwise to ensure the proper and appropriate administration and operation of the Restoration Plan. 

21 

ARTICLE IV  
    
  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION 
    
  4.1    Amendment and Termination 
  The Corporation shall have the right and power at any time and from time to time to amend the Restoration Plan in whole or in part, on behalf of all Participating Employers, and at any time to terminate the Restoration Plan or any Participating Employer's participation hereunder; provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall reduce the amount actually credited to the Account(s) of any Participant (or beneficiary of a deceased Participant) on the date of such amendment or termination, or further defer the due dates for the payment of such amounts, without the consent of the affected person. To the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, in connection with any termination of the Restoration Plan the Corporation shall have the authority to cause the Accounts of all Participants (and beneficiary of any deceased Participants) to be paid in a single sum payment as of a date determined by the Corporation or to otherwise accelerate the payment of all Accounts in such manner as the Corporation shall determine in its discretion.  

22 

ARTICLE V  
    
  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
    
  5.1    Nature of Plan and Rights 
  The Restoration Plan is unfunded and intended to constitute an incentive and deferred compensation plan for a select group of officers and key management employees of the Participating Employers. If necessary to preserve the above intended plan status, the Committee, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to limit or reduce the number of actual Participants and otherwise to take any remedial or curative action that the Committee deems necessary or advisable. The Accounts established and maintained under the Restoration Plan by a Participating Employer are for accounting purposes only and shall not be deemed or construed to create a trust fund of any kind or to grant a property interest of any kind to any Associate, designated beneficiary or estate. The amounts credited by a Participating Employer to such Accounts are and for all purposes shall continue to be a part of the general assets of such Participating Employer, and to the extent that an Associate, beneficiary or estate acquires a right to receive payments from such Participating Employer pursuant to the Restoration Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of such Participating Employer. 
  5.2    Spendthrift Provision 
  A Participant's or Beneficiary's rights and interests under the Restoration Plan may not be assigned or transferred by the Participant or Beneficiary. In that regard, no part of any amounts credited or payable hereunder shall, prior to actual payment, (i) be subject to seizure, attachment, garnishment or sequestration for the payment of debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by the Participant or any other person, (ii) be transferable by operation of law in the event of the Participant's or any person's bankruptcy or insolvency or (iii) be transferable to a spouse as a result of a property settlement or otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participating Employers shall have the right to offset from a Participant's unpaid benefits under the Restoration Plan any amounts due and owing from the Participant to the extent permitted by law. 
  5.3    Limitation of Rights 
  Neither the establishment of the Restoration Plan, nor any amendment thereof, nor the payment of any benefits will be construed as giving any individual any legal or equitable right against the Company, any Participating Employer, or the Committee. In no event will the Restoration Plan be deemed to constitute a contract between any Employee and the Company, a Participating Employer, or the Committee. The Restoration Plan shall not be deemed to be consideration for, or an inducement for, the performance of services by an employee of a Participating Employer. 

23 

5.4    Adoption by Other Participating Employers 
  The Restoration Plan may be adopted by any Participating Employer participating under the 401(k) Plan, such adoption to be effective as of the date specified by such Participating Employer at the time of adoption. 
  5.5    Governing Law 
  The Restoration Plan shall be construed, administered and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina, except to the extent such laws are preempted by federal law. 
  5.6    Merged Plans 
           (a) 
    Merger of Plans  : From time to time the Participating Employers may cause other nonqualified plans to be merged into the Restoration Plan. Schedule 5.6 attached hereto sets forth the names of the plans that merged into the Restoration Plan by January 1, 2013 and their respective merger dates. Schedule 5.6 shall be updated from time to time to reflect mergers after January 1, 2013. 
              (b) 
    Effect of Merger of Plans  : Upon such a merger, the account balance(s) immediately prior to the date of merger of each participant in the merged plan shall be transferred and credited as of the merger date to one or more accounts established under the Restoration Plan for such participant, including without limitation a predecessor company Account as determined by the Global Human Resources Group. From and after the merger date, the participant's rights shall be determined under the Restoration Plan, and the participant shall be subject to all of the restrictions, limitations and other terms and provisions of the Restoration Plan. Not in limitation of the foregoing, each Restoration Plan Account established for the participant as a result of the merger shall be periodically adjusted when and as provided in Section 2.5 hereof as in effect from time to time and shall be paid at such time and in such manner as provided in Section 2.7 and Section 2.8 hereof, except to the extent otherwise provided on Schedule 5.6. The Global Human Resources Group shall, in its discretion, establish any procedures it deems necessary or advisable in order to administer any such plan mergers, including without limitation procedures for transitioning from the method of account adjustments under the prior plan to the methods provided for under the Restoration Plan. The Global Human Resources Group may also establish any special distribution or other rules with respect to such balances, which such special rules shall be specified on Schedule 5.6. 
     5.7    Status Under ERISA 
  The Restoration Plan is maintained for purposes of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. In addition, to the extent that the Restoration Plan makes up benefits limited under the 401(k) Plan as a result of  

24 

Section 415 of the Code, the Restoration Plan shall be considered an  excess benefit plan  within the meaning of ERISA.  
  5.8    Compliance with Section 409A of the Code 
  The Restoration Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Restoration Plan to the contrary, the Restoration Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with this intent. 
  5.9    Severability 
  If any provision of the Restoration Plan is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue to be fully effective. 
  5.10    Headings and Subheadings 
  Headings and subheadings are inserted for convenience only and are not to be considered in the construction of the provisions of the Restoration Plan. 
  5.11    Social Security Tax 
  Subject to the requirements of Section 3121(v)(2) of the Code, the Committee has the full discretion and authority to determine when Federal Insurance Contribution Act ( FICA ) taxes on a Participant's Restoration Plan benefit or account are paid and whether any portion of such FICA taxes shall be withheld from the Participant's wages or deducted from the participant's benefit or account. 
  5.12    Claims Procedure 
  Any claim for benefits under the Restoration Plan by a Participant or Beneficiary shall be made in accordance with the claims procedures set forth in the 401(k) Plan. 
  5.13    Limited Effect Of Restatement 
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Restoration Plan, to the extent permitted by ERISA and the Code, this instrument shall not affect the availability, amount, form or method of payment of benefits being paid before the effective date hereof to any Participant or former Participant (or a Beneficiary of either) in the Restoration Plan who is not an active participant on or after the effective date hereof, said availability, amount, form or method of payment of benefits, if any, to be determined in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Restoration Plan as in effect prior to the effective date hereof. 
  5.14    Binding Effect 
  The Restoration Plan (including any and all amendments thereto) shall be binding upon the Participating Employers, their respective successors and assigns, and upon the  

25 

Participants and their Beneficiaries and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and all other persons claiming by, under or through any of them. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this instrument has been executed by the Corporation on the 19 day of December, 2012 and effective as of January 1, 2013. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
     /s/ Mark S. Behnke                                                    

Mark S. Behnke 

Global Head of Compensation and Benefits 

26 

SCHEDULE  5.6  
  MERGED PLANS AS OF JANUARY 1, 2013 
                 Plan Name 
    Date of Merger 
      C S Policy Committee Supplemental Savings Plan 
    December 31, 1992 
      C S Key Executive Supplemental Savings Plan 
    December 31, 1992 
      C S/Sovran Supplemental Retirement Plan for Former Sovran Executives (Thrift Restoration Benefits) 
    December 31, 1992 
      First   Merchants Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan 
    March 31, 1993 
      Sovran Deferred Compensation Plan 
    March 31, 1993 
      NationsBank of Texas, N.A. Profit Sharing Restoration Plan 
    March 31, 1993 
      Thrift Plan Reserve Account Maintained Under the NationsBank Corporation and Designated Subsidiaries Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 
    March 31, 1993 
      Bank South Executive Bonus Deferral Plan 
    July 1, 1996 
      Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 
    December 31, 1997 
      Fourth Financial Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan 
    December 31, 1997 
      NationsBank Corporation Key Employee Deferral Plan 
    April 1, 1998 
      Deferred compensation components of the NationsBank Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 
    April 1, 1998 
      Management Excess Savings Plan of Barnett Banks, Inc. and its Affiliates 
    December 31, 1998 
      BankAmerica Deferred Compensation Plan 
    June 30, 2000 
      BankAmerica Supplemental Retirement Plan 
    June 30, 2000 
      ABN AMRO Group Supplemental Savings Plan 
    April 1, 2008 
      Countrywide Financial Corporation Supplemental Savings and Investment Deferred Compensation Plan 
    April 6, 2009 

I. 
    Special Rules Applicable to Former Participants of and Balances Merged from the ABN AMRO Group Supplemental Savings Plan ( SSP )  : 
              (a) 
    Special Payment Elections  : Each Participant with an account balance(s) merged from the ABN AMRO Group Supplemental Savings Plan ( SSP Account Balance(s)") who was in the active service of a Participating Employer on April 1, 2008 was given the opportunity during 2008 to make a payment election applicable to the Participant's SSP Account Balance(s). The Participant could elect from among the class year payment options set forth in Section 2.8(b), and such election was immediately effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such payment election was not applicable to any amounts otherwise payable in 2008 and did not cause any amounts to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in such year. In the event a Participant covered by this Schedule 5.6(I)(a) failed to make a payment election with respect to the Participant's SSP Account Balance(s), the payment method shall be a lump sum payment following Termination of Employment as set forth in Section 2.8(b). Any subsequent change to such payment election must comply with the requirements of Section 2.8(c). Payments pursuant to such election shall otherwise be subject to the requirements of Section 2.8, including the default lump sum payment rules of Section 2.8(d) and the special rules for certain  specified employees  pursuant to Section 2.8(i). Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, no default lump sum   payment was made pursuant to Section 2.8(d) if such payment would have caused any amounts to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise have been payable in such year. 
              (b) 
    Payment Rule Applicable to Terminated SSP Participants  : The SSP Account Balance(s) of each Participant who was not in the active service of a Participating Employer on April 1, 2008 shall be paid to the Participant at the time and in the form applicable to the Participant's account balance(s) under the SSP on March 31, 2008.  Each such Participant shall not have the opportunity to make any subsequent change to the payment election applicable to the Participant's SSP Account Balance(s) under the SSP on March 31, 2008 as provided in Section 2.8(c). In all other respects, each such Participant's rights shall be determined under the Restoration Plan, and each such Participant shall be subject to all of the restrictions, limitations and other terms and provisions of the Restoration Plan, including the special rules for certain  specified employees  pursuant to Section 2.8(i), but excluding the default lump sum payment rules of Section 2.8(d). 
              (c) 
    Ongoin  g Restoration Plan Participation  : No former participant in the SSP shall be eligible to otherwise participate in the Restoration Plan unless such participant becomes eligible to participate in the Restoration Plan under Section 2.1. 

II. 
    Special Rules Applicable to Former Participants of and Balances Merged from the Countrywide Financial Corporation Supplemental Savings and Investment Deferred Compensation Plan ( SSIP )  : 
              (a) 
    Payment Rule Applicable to SSIP Participants  : The account balance(s) merged from the Countrywide Financial Corporation Supplemental Savings and Investment Deferred Compensation Plan ( SSIP Account Balance(s) ) on April 6, 2009 shall be paid to each applicable Participant at the time and in the form applicable to the Participant's account balance(s) under the SSIP on April 5, 2009. Each such Participant shall not have the opportunity to make any subsequent change to the payment election applicable to the Participant's SSIP Account Balance(s) under the SSIP on April 5, 2009 as provided in Section 2.8(c). In all other respects, each such Participant's rights shall be determined under the Restoration Plan, and each such Participant shall be subject to all of the restrictions, limitations and other terms and provisions of the Restoration Plan, including the special rules for certain  specified employees  pursuant to Section 2.8(i), but excluding the default lump sum payment rules of Section 2.8(d). 
              (b) 
    Ongoing Restoration Plan Participation  : No former participant in the SSIP shall be eligible to otherwise participate in the Restoration Plan unless such participant becomes eligible to participate in the Restoration Plan under Section 2.1. 

</EX-10.C>

<EX-10.D>
 4
 bac-12312012x10kex10d.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 10 (d) 

Exhibit 10(d) 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA 
  EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
    
  Instrument of Amendment 
  THIS INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT (the  Instrument ) is executed this 23rd day of January, 2013 by BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ). 
  Statement of Purpose 
  The Corporation maintains the Bank of America Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). The Corporation desires to amend the Plan as set forth herein to change the divisor price under the Plan from a five (5) day average closing price to a ten (10) day average closing price of the Corporation's common stock, preceding and including the applicable grant date. In Section 7 of the Plan, the Corporation has reserved the right to amend the Plan. 
    
  NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended effective as of the date hereof as follows: 
  1.    The definition of  Fair Market Value  under Section 3 of the Plan is amended to read as follows: 
    
   Fair Market Value    of a share of the Corporation's common stock as of a given date means the average Closing Price of a share of such common stock for the ten (10) consecutive trading days ending on the applicable date. 
    
  2.    Except as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Instrument to be executed by its duly authorized officer as of the day and year first above written. 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
                 By: 
    /s/ Andrea B. Smith 

Andrea B. Smith, Global Head of Human Resources 

</EX-10.D>

<EX-10.L>
 5
 bac-12312012x10kex10l.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 10 (l) 

Exhibit 10 (l) 
    
  FIRST AMENDMENT 
  TO THE 
  RETIREMENT INCOME ASSURANCE PLAN FOR LEGACY FLEET 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2009) 
    
  Instrument of Amendment 
    
  THIS INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT (the  Instrument ) is executed by BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation with its principal office and place of business in Charlotte, North Carolina (the  Company ). 
    
  Statement of Purpose 
  By this Instrument, the Company is amending the Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2009) (the  Plan ) to reflect relevant changes resulting from the freeze of The Bank of America Pension Plan for Legacy Fleet, a component document of The Bank of America Pension Plan for Legacy Companies. The Company has reserved the right in Section 5.1 of the Plan to amend the Plan in whole or in part, on its own behalf and on behalf of its affiliated companies that participate in the Plan. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby amends the Plan effective as of June 30, 2012: 
  1.    Section 1.8 of the Plan is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
     1.8        Delink Calculation Date 
  The date determined by the Global Human Resources Group that is not more than 75 days after the Participant's Termination of Employment; provided, however, that with respect to a Participant who is an Employee on October 1, 2012, the Delink Calculation Date is a date determined by the Global Human Resources Group that is not later than April 30, 2013.  
    
  2.    Section 3.2(b) of the Plan is hereby amended by the addition of the following sentence at the end thereof: 
    
   Notwithstanding anything in this subsection to the contrary, no compensation paid after June 30, 2012 shall be taken into account in determining Amount A.  
    1 

3.     Section 3.4(b)(i) of the Plan is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows: 
    
            (i) 
    Amount   A is the amount of the benefit the Cash Balance Participant (or Beneficiary) would have been entitled to receive under the Basic Plan as of the Cash Balance Participant's Delink Calculation Date (expressed as a lump sum if not otherwise a lump sum) if 'earnings' under the Basic Plan included deferrals of base pay, commissions or non-discretionary incentive pay made under the Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan; provided, however, that if the limits of Section 1.16(c)(i) of the Basic Plan apply to the Cash Balance Participant, such deferrals will be taken into account under this paragraph only to the extent the deferrals, when added to the commissions, non-discretionary incentive pay and actual base pay previously counted under the Basic Plan in the same year, do not exceed the limit described in Section 1.16(c)(i) of the Basic Plan, and 'earnings' under the Basic Plan were not limited by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code but were limited to an annual maximum of $250,000, and the limitations of Section 415 of the Code (and provisions of the Basic Plan applying those limitations) did not exist; and provided further, however, that the 'earnings' taken into account for the 2012 Plan Year may not exceed $250,000 over (I) 'earnings' under the Basic Plan through June 30, 2012 and (II) 'ACC-eligible compensation' from July 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012 under the Savings Plan; and provided further, however, that if a participant has a Termination of Employment in 2012 after June 30, 2012, the 'earnings' described in clause (II) of the preceding proviso shall be considered only if the Participant's Termination of Employment (i) occurs when the Participant meets the requirements for Rule of 60, (ii) is because of an involuntary termination of employment by an Affiliated Group Member that entitles the Participant to severance pay under the Bank of America Corporate Severance Program, (iii) is in connection with a divestiture by the Company or any Affiliated Group Member, or (iv) is a result of the Participant's death; and  
       
  4.    A new subsection (i) is hereby added to Section D.3. of Appendix A of the Plan to read in its entirety as follows: 
    
           (i) 
     Notwithstanding anything in this section or the Plan to the contrary, no compensation paid after June 30, 2012 shall be taken into account in determining a Participant's benefit under this section.  
       2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America Corporation, on behalf of all of the Participating Employers, has caused this Instrument to be duly executed on the 29 day of June, 2012. 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
                 By: 
    /s/ Mark S. Behnke 

Mark S. Behnke 
  Global Compensation, Benefits and 
  Shared Services Executive 
    
    3 

</EX-10.L>

<EX-12>
 6
 bac-12312012x10kex12.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 12 

(1)   
    Represents an appropriate interest factor. 
               (2)   
    Reflects the impact of $8.8 billion of mortgage banking losses and $3.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges during 2011 which resulted in a negative preferred dividend requirement.  
               (3)   
    The earnings for 2010 were inadequate to cover fixed charges and the ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preferred dividends. The earnings deficiency is a result of $12.4 billion of goodwill impairment charges during 2010. The coverage deficiency for fixed charges was $113 million and the coverage deficiency for fixed charges and preferred dividends was $915 million.    
               (4)   
    The earnings for 2009 were inadequate to cover fixed charges and preferred dividends. The earnings deficiency is a result of accelerated accretion of $4.0 billion recorded as a result of the repurchase of TARP Preferred Stock. The coverage deficiency for fixed charges and preferred dividends was $3.4 billion. 
     n/m = not meaningful 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 bac-12312012x10kex21.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 21 

Exhibit 21 

   Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation 
  As of December 31, 2012 
                     Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      100 Federal Street Limited Partnership 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      201 North Tryon, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      214 North Tryon, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      222 Broadway, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    New York 
      2007 Merrill Lynch MB Fund Capital, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      2007 Merrill Lynch MB Fund Strategies, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      2007 Merrill Lynch Merchant Banking Fund, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      2007 Merrill Lynch Merchant Banking Fund International, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      2008 Merrill Lynch Merchant Banking Fund International, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      2008 Merrill Lynch Merchant Banking Fund, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      1343190 Alberta Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      AANAH Holding LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      AANAH Holding LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Aarco 106 Limited 
    Chester, United Kingdom 
    United Kingdom 
      Abilene Park, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Acceptance Alliance, LLC 
    Louisville, KY 
    Delaware 
      Access 1 Fundo De Investimento Em Cotas De Fundo De Investimento Em Direitos Creditorios Nao Padronizado 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      ACP Power and Energy Real Asset Fund 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ACP Power and Energy Real Asset Fund - A 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ACP Power and Energy Real Asset Fund - B 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Administradora Blue 2234 S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico City, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      Aguila Corp S.A.C. 
    Lima, Peru 
    Peru 
      Alamo Funding II, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Alexandra IV, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Alie Street Investments Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Alie Street Investments 6 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Alie Street Investments 8 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Alie Street Investments 12 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Alie Street Investments 16 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Alie Street Investments 24 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Almazora Holdings S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Alpine Associates Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Alpine Associates Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Amarillo Lane, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      AMM Holdings Pty Limited 
    Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 
    Australia 
      Andrew VI, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Anzac Peaks, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Apollo Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Appold Property Management Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Ascend Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Ascend Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Asesores Argentinos de Seguros S.A. 
    Buenos Aires, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Asia Investment Consulting Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Asian American Merchant Bank Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Asset Backed Funding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Asset Transition Management Services, Inc. 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Delaware 
      Aswan Development Associates, LLC 
    Miami, FL 
    Florida 
      Aswan Village Associates, LLC 
    Miami, FL 
    Florida 
      Atlantic Equity Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Audubon - MM Urban Investments, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Audubon - MM Urban Investments II, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Audubon Urban Investments, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Augusta Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Aztex Associates, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      B of A Issuance B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      B.A. International (Cayman) Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA 1998 Partners Associates Fund, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA 1998 Partners Fund I, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA 1998 Partners Fund II, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA 1998 Partners Fund LDC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA 1998 Partners Master Fund I, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA 1998 Partners Master Fund II, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA 2001 Partners Associates Fund, L P 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA 2001 Partners Fund II, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA 2001 Partners Master Fund, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Alternative Investment Solutions Master Fund, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 

1 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      BA Australia Limited 
    Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 
    Australia 
      BA Auto Securitization Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA Capital Company, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA Co-Invest Fund 2001 (Cayman), L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Co-Invest Fund 2002 (Cayman), L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Coinvest GP, Inc. 
    Chicago, IL 
    North Carolina 
      BA Continuum Costa Rica, Limitada 
    San Jose, Costa Rica 
    Costa Rica 
      BA Continuum India Private Limited 
    Hyderabad, India 
    India 
      BA Continuum Mauritius Holdings Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Republic of Mauritius 
      BA Continuum Mexican Holdings Private Limited 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      BA Continuum Mexico Administracion S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Tlaquepaque, Jalisco, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      BA Continuum Mexico, S.C. 
    Tlaquepaque, Jalisco, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      BA Continuum Netherlands B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      BA Continuum Philippines, Inc. 
    Taguig City, Philippines 
    Philippines 
      BA Continuum Singapore International Holdings Private Limited 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      BA Credit Card Funding, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA Direct Investment Fund M, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA Diversified Real Estate Fund, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Electronic Data Processing (Guangzhou) Ltd. 
    Guangzhou, PRC 
    People's Republic of China 
      BA Employment Services Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Equity Holdings, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA Equity Investors, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      BA Financial Trading (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Fund of Funds Direct, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Fund Services (Cayman) Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Global Funding Inc. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA GSS International B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      BA GSS International C.V. 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Netherlands 
      BA GSTS GP LLC 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Delaware 
      BA Hedge Fund Direct, LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Hedge Fund Solutions, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Insurance Group, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA Insurance Services, Inc. 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      BA Leasing BSC, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BA Merchant Services, LLC 
    Louisville, KY 
    Ohio 
      BA Overseas Holdings 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Partners Fund III, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund IV - Buyout, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund IV - Buyout Master Fund, L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund IV - New Century, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund IV - New Century Master Fund, L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund IV - Venture, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund IV - Venture Master Fund, L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - Buyout, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - Buyout Master Fund, L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - International, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - International Master Fund, L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - Opportunistic Real Estate, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - PE Blend, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - Venture, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund V - Venture Master Fund, L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Partners Fund VI - PE Blend (Cayman), L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Cayman Islands 
      BA Partners Fund VI - PE Blend, L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BA Properties, Inc. 
    Los Angeles, CA 
    Delaware 
      BA Residential Securitization LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA SBIC Sub, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      BA Securities Australia Limited 
    Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 
    Australia 
      BA Venture Management Corporation 
    Thousand Oaks, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC III 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC IV 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC V 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC VI 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC VII 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC IX 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC X 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC XI 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC XII 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Capital Funding LLC XIII 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 

2 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      BAC AAH Preferred Exchange LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Preferred Exchange LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Preferred Holding LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC AAH Preferred Holding LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC Canada Finance Company 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      BAC CCC Mezzanine Investments, L.L.C. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC CCC Private Equity Investments, Inc. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC Field Services Corporation 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    California 
      BAC LB Capital Funding LLC I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Capital Funding LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Capital Funding Trust I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Capital Funding Trust II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Holding LLC I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Holding LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Preferred Exchange LLC I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Preferred Exchange LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Preferred Holding LLC I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC LB Preferred Holding LLC II 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAC Mezzanine Management, Inc. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Illinois 
      BAC North America Holding Company 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BAC NUBAFA, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAC Strategic Investments B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      BAC Tax Services Corporation 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    California 
      BACAP Alternative Advisors, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Missouri 
      BACAP Diversified Real Estate Fund, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BACAP Institutional Multi-Strategy Hedge Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      BACAP Multi-Strategy Hedge Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BACAP Multi-Strategy Hedge Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      BACDC Crossings 29th LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Delaware 
      BACDC Crossing at Big Bear LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Delaware 
      BACDC Crossings North Hills LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Delaware 
      BACDC Horizons at Morgan Hill LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Delaware 
      BACI Triad, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BACP Europe Fund II, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BACP Europe Fund IV M, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Bakerton Finance, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BAL Corporate Aviation, LLC 
    New Castle, DE 
    Delaware 
      BAL Energy Holding, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAL Energy Management, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAL Energy Management II, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAL Global Finance (Deutschland) GmbH 
    Dusseldorf, Germany 
    Germany 
      BAL Global Finance (UK) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      BAL Global Finance Canada Corporation 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      BAL Investment   Advisory, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAL OMFSP, LLC 
    Dodge Center, MN 
    California 
      BAL Solar I, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAL Solar II, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAL Solar III, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Balboa Insurance Company 
    Irvine, CA 
    California 
      Balboa Insurance Services, Inc. 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    California 
      Balboa Life   Casualty LLC 
    Irvine, CA 
    Delaware 
      BALCAP Funding, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BALI Australia Leasing Pty Limited 
    Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 
    Australia 
      BALI Funding Luxembourg Limited 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    United Kingdom 
      Ballantyne Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Baltic Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BAML Capital Access Funds Management, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAML GP, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BAML Investors, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      BAML Partnership, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      BAMLCAF First Capital GP, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BAMS Solutions, Inc. 
    Louisville, KY 
    Ohio 
      BANA Alberta Funding Company, ULC 
    Calgary, Alberta, Canada 
    Canada 
      BANA BACM 2000-2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA BACM 2002-2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA BACM 2002-PB2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA BACM 2003-1 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA BACM 2003-2 PAWTUCKET SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA BACM 2003-2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 

3 

4 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      BANA GECMC 2003-C2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA GECMC 2004-C1 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA GECMC 2004-C3 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA GECMC 2005-C1 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA GECMC 2005-C2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA GECMC 2007-C1 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA Holding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA MLMT 2004-MKB1 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA MLMT 2005-MKB2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA NLFC 1998-2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA NLFC 1999-1 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA NLFC 1999-2 SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA Preservation Corporation 
    Salt Lake City, UT 
    Delaware 
      BANA TENTH VENTURE SB 1 LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Advisory Services, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Arena Community Development LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Bridge LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America California Community Venture Fund, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Access Funds Management A, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Access Funds Management B, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Holdings, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Holdings V, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Investors, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Investors SBIC, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Investors V, L.P. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Capital Management (Ireland), Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Banc of America CDC Special Holding Company, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America CDE I, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America CDE II, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America CDE III, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America CDE IV, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America CDE V, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America CDE, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      Banc of America Co-Invest Fund 2001, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Co-Invest Fund 2002, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Community Development Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America Community Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Missouri 
      Banc of America Consumer Card Services, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America Credit Products, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Development, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Missouri 
      Banc of America E-Commerce Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Energy   Power Facilities Leasing I, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America FSC Holdings, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Funding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Historic Capital Assets LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Historic Investments Partnership 
    Concord, CA 
    Illinois 
      Banc of America Historic New Ventures, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Historic Ventures, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America HTC Investments LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Banc of America Insurance Services, Inc. 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      Banc of America Investment Leasing Co., Ltd. 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Banc of America Leasing   Capital, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Leasing Ireland Co., Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Banc of America Management LLC I 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Management LLC III 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Merchant Services, LLC 
    Atlanta, GA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Merrill Lynch Commercial Mortgage Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Merrill Lynch Large Loan, Inc. 
    Dover, DE 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Mortgage Capital Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America Mortgage Securities, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Neighborhood Services Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Banc of America Preferred Funding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Public Capital Corp 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Kansas 
      Banc of America Securities Asia Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      Banc of America Securities Canada Co. 
    Halifax, Nova Scotia 
    Canada 
      Banc of America Securities Canada Holding Corp. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Securities (India) Private Limited 
    Mumbai, India 
    India 
      Banc of America Securities Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Banc of America Securitization Holding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 

5 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Banc of America Specialist, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    New York 
      Banc of America Strategic Investments Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Strategic Investments LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Strategic Ventures, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Structured Notes, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BancAmerica Capital Holdings II, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BancAmerica Capital Investors II, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BancAmerica Capital Investors SBIC II, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BancAmerica Coinvest Fund 2000, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Aircraft Leasing Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital Co-Investment Partners (2000) LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital Co-Investment Partners (2001) LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      BancBoston Capital ICP Partners 2 LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital ICP Partners 3 LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital ICP Partners 3-A L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital ICP Partners LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital Money Markets Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      BancBoston Capital Private Equity Partners LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BancBoston Capital, Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BancBoston Investments Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BancBoston Leasing Services Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BancBoston Ventures Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Bank of America Auto Receivables Securitization, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Brasil Ltda. 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Bank of America California, National Association 
    San Francisco, CA 
    United States of America 
      Bank of America Canada 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Bank of America Capital Advisors LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Capital Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Charitable Foundation, Inc., The 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Bank of America Global Holdings, LP 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Global Holdings, S.a.r.l. 
    Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Bank of America (GSS) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Bank of America GSS Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      Bank of America Malaysia Berhad 
    Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo S.A. 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Bank of America Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca Multiple 
    Mexico City, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      Bank of America Mortgage Securities, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America, National Association 
    Charlotte, NC 
    United States of America 
      Bank of America Oregon, National Association 
    Portland, OR 
    United States of America 
      Bank of America Overseas Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    United States of America 
      Bank of America Reinsurance Corporation 
    Burlington, VT 
    Vermont 
      Bank of America Rhode Island, National Association 
    Providence, RI 
    United States of America 
      Bank of America Securitization Investment Trust LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Singapore Limited 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Bank of America Student Loan Securitization Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bank of America Ventures 
    Foster City, CA 
    California 
      BankAmerica Capital III 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BankAmerica International Financial Corporation 
    San Francisco, CA 
    United States of America 
      BankAmerica International Investment Corporation 
    Chicago, IL 
    United States of America 
      BankAmerica Investment Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BankAmerica Nominees (1993) Pte Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      BankAmerica Nominees (Hong Kong) Ltd. 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      BankAmerica Nominees (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      BankAmerica Nominees Limited (London) 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      BankAmerica Realty Finance, Inc. 
    Los Angeles, CA 
    Delaware 
      BankAmerica Realty Services, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BankAmerica Special Assets Corporation 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BankBoston Capital Trust III 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BankBoston Capital Trust IV 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BankBoston Co-Investment Partners (1998) L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BankBoston Co-Investment Partners (1999) L.P. 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BankBoston International Leasing LLC 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      BAPCC II, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Bardin Road Ventures Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Texas 
      Barnett Capital III 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Delaware 
      BAS Capital Funding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 

6 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      BAS Oak Management, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAS Oak X, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      BAS Securitization LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BAS/SOFI Management, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BAS/SOFI VI, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BASCFC-Maxcom Holdings I, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Bassoon III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Bay 2 Bay Leasing LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Bay Area Credit Services, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BBC Co-Investment Partners (1998) LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BBI Management Co. LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BBI Switch LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BBV Management Co. LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BBV Switch LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Ben Franklin/Progress Capital Fund LP 
    Blue Bell, PA 
    Delaware 
      Benson Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Berndale Securities Limited 
    Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 
    Australia 
      Bighorn Investments Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Birchwood Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BIRMSON, L.L.C. 
    Wilton, CT 
    Alabama 
      BJCC, Inc. 
    Wilton, CT 
    Delaware 
      Black Mountain Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BlackRock Health Sciences Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BlackRock Health Sciences Access LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Blue Finn S. a r.l. 
    Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Blue Ridge Investments, L.L.C. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bluejay LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BOA Investment Fund III, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      BOA Investment Fund IV, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      BOA Investment Fund V, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      BoA Luxembourg S.a.r.l. / B.V. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Netherlands 
      BoA Netherlands Cooperatieve U.A. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      BOA/Mermart Joint Venture 
    San Diego, CA 
    California 
      Bodiam Hill Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      BofA Advisors, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BofA Canada Bank 
    Gloucester, Canada 
    Canada 
      BofA Canada Holdings ULC 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      BofA Distributors, Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BofA Global Capital Management Group, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      BofA Merrill Lynch Asset Holdings, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Asia Fund LP, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Bosphorus Fund CIP Vehicle LP, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Europe Fund CI Vehicle GP, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Europe Fund CI Vehicle LP, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Europe Fund Holdco, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Europe Fund LCI Vehicle GP, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Europe Fund ML Vehicle GP, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Europe Fund ML Vehicle LP, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      BofAML Funding Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      BofAML Invest Funds PLC 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      BofAML Investments 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      BofAML Trustees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Boston International Holdings Corporation 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    United States of America 
      Boston Overseas Financial Corporation S.A. 
    Buenos Aires, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Boston Overseas Holding Corporation 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Boston Securities S.A. Sociedad de Bolsa 
    Buenos Aires, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Boston World Holding Corporation 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BR Depositor, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Bracebridge Corporation 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Breckenridge Investments Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Brigibus Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Business Lenders, LLC 
    Hartford, CT 
    Delaware 
      C S Premises-SPE, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      C-Zone S.p.A. 
    Rome, Italy 
    Italy 
      Cabernet I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Calnevari Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      CalSTRS/Banc of America Capital Access Fund III, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      CalSTRS/BAML Capital Access Funds IV, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      CalSTRS/Banc of America Capital Access Fund, LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 

7 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      CAP, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Card Processing Reseller, Inc. 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Carlson Double Black Diamond Participation Fund LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Carson Asset Management Company 
    Reno, NV 
    Delaware 
      Catherine III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Central Park Development Group, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      Charlotte Gateway Village, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Charlotte Transit Center, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Cherry Park LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Chester Property   Services Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England 
      Chetwynd Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Chilton GNR Participation LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Chilton GNR Participation Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Chilton Pan-Asia Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Chilton Small Cap Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Chilton Small Cap Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Church Street Housing Partners I, LLC 
    Orlando, FL 
    Florida 
      Church Street Retail Partners I, LLC 
    Orlando, FL 
    Florida 
      Circulos OCA S.A. 
    Montevideo, Uruguay 
    Uruguay 
      Citygate Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Clarinet I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      clearXchange, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Clough Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Clough Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      CM REO S1 LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Coast Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Coast Access II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Coast Access III LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Coast Access IV LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Coast Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Coast Access II Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Coast Access III Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Columbus Bay Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Columbus Square LLC 
    Kansas City, MO 
    Missouri 
      Columbus Square II LLC 
    St. Louis, MO 
    Missouri 
      Continental Finanziaria S.p.A. 
    Milan, Italy 
    Italy 
      Continental Illinois Venture Corporation 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Coral Hill LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Core Opportunistic Equity Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Core Private Equity Fund I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Core Strategies Investment Fund LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Corfe Hill Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      Corporate Properties Services, LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Cortlandt Realty Associates I, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Countryside SA Holdings, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Countrywide Capital III 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Capital IV 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Capital V 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Capital Markets Asia (HK) Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      Countrywide Capital Markets, LLC 
    Calabasas, CA 
    California 
      Countrywide Commercial Mortgage Capital, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Commercial Real Estate Finance, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    California 
      Countrywide Financial Corporation 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Hillcrest I, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    California 
      Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    New York 
      Countrywide International Consulting Services, LLC 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide International GP Holdings, LLC 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide International Holdings, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide International Technology Holdings Limited 
    St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands 
    Island of Guernsey 
      Countrywide JV Technology Holdings Limited 
    St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands 
    Island of Guernsey 
      Countrywide Management Corporation 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Mortgage Ventures, LLC 
    Calabasas Hills, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Securities Corporation 
    Calabasas, CA 
    California 
      Countrywide Servicing Exchange 
    Calabasas, CA 
    California 
      Countrywide Sunfish Management LLC 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Warehouse Lending 
    Calabasas, CA 
    California 
      CP Development Group 3, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      CP Development Group 4, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      CPDG7, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      CQS Holding S.r.l. 
    Rome, Italy 
    Italy 

8 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Creative Village Development, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      Crockett Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Crystal I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      CSC Associates, L.P. 
    Marietta, GA 
    Georgia 
      CTC Real Estate Services 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    California 
      CW Insurance Group, LLC 
    Irvine, CA 
    California 
      CW Reinsurance Company 
    Burlington, VT 
    Vermont 
      CW Securities Holdings, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      CW (UK) Services Limited 
    Dartford, United Kingdom 
    United Kingdom 
      CW UKTechnology Limited 
    Dartford, United Kingdom 
    United Kingdom 
      CWABS, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      CWALT, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      CWHEQ, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      CWIBH, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      CWMBS, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      CWTechSolutions Limited 
    Dartford, United Kingdom 
    United Kingdom 
      Cypress Point Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Cypress Tree CLAIF Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Cyrus Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Davidson Partners Limited 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Debt Clear Recoveries   Investigations Limited 
    Manchester, United Kingdom 
    United Kingdom 
      Denton II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      DFO Partnership 
    San Francisco, CA 
    New York 
      Diamond Springs Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Dorton B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Dover Mortgage Capital 2005-A Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Dover Mortgage Capital Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Dover Two Mortgage Capital 2005-A Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Dover Two Mortgage Capital Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      DSP Merrill Lynch Capital Limited 
    Mumbai, India 
    India 
      DSP Merrill Lynch Limited 
    Mumbai, India 
    India 
      DSP Merrill Lynch Trust Services Limited 
    Mumbai, India 
    India 
      Eagle Corporation, The 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Eagle Investments S.A., The 
    Montevideo, Uruguay 
    Uruguay 
      Eaglewood Apartments, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      Eaglewood Course Development, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      Eban Incorporated 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Eban Village I, Ltd. 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Eban Village II, Ltd. 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Echo Canyon Park LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Edificaciones Arendonk, S.L. 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      Edward IV, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      EFP (Cayman) Funding I Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      EFP (Cayman) Funding II Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      EFP (Hong Kong) Funding I Limited 
    Hong Kong, SAR 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      EFP Netherlands Investment II, V.O.F. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      EFP Netherlands Investment, B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      EGB Podstawowy Niestandaryzowany Sekurytyzacyjny Fundusz Inwestycyjny Zamkniety 
    Warsaw, Poland 
    Poland 
      EGB-SKARBIEC Bis Powiazany Fundusz Inwestycyjny Zamkniety 
    Warsaw, Poland 
    Poland 
      EGB-SKARBIEC Powiazany Fundusz Inwestycyjny Zamkniety 
    Warsaw, Poland 
    Poland 
      Electra Leasing LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Elizabeth VI, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Ella III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      EM Cobranza S de RL de CV 
    New York, NY 
    Mexico 
      EM Structured Investments, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Emerging Markets Opportunities LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Emerging Markets Opportunities Ltd. 
    Boston, MA 
    Cayman Islands 
      Emerging Markets Opportunities Master, Ltd. 
    Boston, MA 
    Cayman Islands 
      EQCC Receivables Corporation 
    Las Vegas, NV 
    Delaware 
      EquiCredit Corporation of America 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Delaware 
      Equipart Pty Limited 
    Victoria, Australia 
    Australia 
      Equity Analytics, LLC 
    Scottsdale, AZ 
    Delaware 
      Equity Finance Delaware, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Equity Long Short HedgeAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Equity Long Short HedgeAccess II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Equity Long-Short HedgeAccess Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Equity Margins Ltd. 
    Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 
    Australia 
      Equity/Protect Reinsurance Company 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Turks   Caicos Islands 
      Euphonium V, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Europe Card Services General Partner Limited 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 

9 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Europe Card Services Partners (Scotland) LP 
    Edinburgh, Scotland 
    Scotland 
      Event Driven   Credit HedgeAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Event-Driven   Credit HedgeAccess II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Event Driven   Credit HedgeAccess Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Everest Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Excelsior Buyout Management, LLC 
    Stamford, CT 
    Delaware 
      Excelsior Buyout Partners, LLC 
    Stamford, CT 
    Delaware 
      F. R. Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Nevada 
      Fairfield Nominees Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Fallon Lane LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      FDS Financial Data Services Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Federal Street Investments S.A. 
    Montevideo, Uruguay 
    Uruguay 
      Federal Street Shipping LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Ferrybridge Investments Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      FFG Property Holding Corp. 
    Providence, RI 
    Rhode Island 
      FIA Card Services, National Association 
    Wilmington, DE 
    United States of America 
      FIA (Gibraltar) Holdings Limited 
    Gibraltar, Gibraltar 
    Gibraltar 
      FIA (Gibraltar) SLP Holdings Limited 
    Gibraltar, Gibraltar 
    Gibraltar 
      FIA Holdings, LP 
    Edinburgh, Scotland 
    Scotland 
      FIA Holdings S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      FIA Jersey Holdings Limited 
    Chester, United Kingdom 
    Jersey 
      FIA Swiss Funding Limited 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    England   Wales 
      FIA UK Funding Limited 
    Chester, United Kingdom 
    England   Wales 
      Fiduciary Services Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Fiduciary Services (UK) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Financial Data Services, Inc. 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Florida 
      First Bank of Pinellas County Land Corporation 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      First Capital Corporation of Boston 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      First Franklin Financial Corporation 
    San Jose, CA 
    Delaware 
      First Permanent Financial Services Pty Ltd 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      First Permanent Securities Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      First Permanent Securities Mortgage Warehouse Trust 2000-1 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      First Permanent Super Prime RMBS Trust 2006-1 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Firstval Properties, Inc. 
    Bethlehem, PA 
    Pennsylvania 
      Five Dollars a Day, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Capital Trust V 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Community Development Corporation 
    Providence, RI 
    Rhode Island 
      Fleet Development Ventures L.L.C. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Fleet Equity Partners V, L.P. 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Equity Partners VI, L.P. 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Equity Partners VII, L.P. 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Fund Investors, LLC 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Growth Resources II, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Growth Resources III, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Rhode Island 
      Fleet Growth Resources IV, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Rhode Island 
      Fleet Growth Resources, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Fleet International Advisors S.A. 
    Montevideo, Uruguay 
    Uruguay 
      Fleet Venture Partners I 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      Fleet Venture Resources, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Rhode Island 
      FleetBoston Co-Investment Partners (2000) LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      FleetBoston Co-Investment Partners (2001) LP 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Flute II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Fondo Espanol de Recuperaciones B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Fondo Espanol de Recuperaciones II B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Framework, Inc. 
    Washington, DC 
    Delaware 
      FRB Acceptance LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      FSC Corp. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Fugu Credit Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Fund Five Financial, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    California 
      Fundo de Investimento em Direito Creditorio Nao Padronizado Tratex Precatorios II 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Fundo de Investimento em Direitos Creditorios Nao Padronizados Tratex Precatorio III 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Fundo de Investimento em Direito Creditorio PCG Brasil Multi Carteira 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Fundo de Investimento Financeiro Multimercado Diamond 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Fundo de Investimento Financeiro Multimercado Iceberg 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Fundo de Investimento Financeiro Multimercado Verona 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Fundo de Investimento Multimercado Agata - Credito Privado - Investimentos no Exterior 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Galway Holdings Trust 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Garden Property LLC 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Delaware 
      Gatwick LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 

10 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      GBP Funding 2007-A 
    London, U.K. 
    Cayman Islands 
      GEM 21 s.r.l. 
    Milan, Italy 
    Italy 
      General Fidelity Life Insurance Company 
    Columbia, SC 
    South Carolina 
      Germany Telecommunications 1 S.a.r.L 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      GK Ad astra 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      GK Nagareyama 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      GK Satsuma 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Gleneagles Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Glenwood Investments Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Global Macro HedgeAccess Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Global Macro Opportunities LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Global Macro Opportunities Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Global Principal Finance Company, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Global Structured Finance   Investments LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      GlobaLoans International Technology Limited Partnership 
    Dartford, United Kingdom 
    England 
      GlobaLoans JV Limited Partnership 
    Dartford, United Kingdom 
    England 
      GMI Strategic Investments, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Gold Magnet (BVI) Limited 
    Tortola, British Virgin Islands 
    Virgin Islands 
      Goldbourne Park Limited 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Jersey 
      Golden Peak Investments LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      GPFC Ireland Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Green Equity Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    New Jersey 
      Groom Lake, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Hachiko, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Halcyon Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Halcyon Access II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Halcyon Access III LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Halcyon Access LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Hampton Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Hanover Holdings Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Harbour Town Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      HCL Acquisition LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      HCL Developer LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      HCL Manager LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Healthcare Royalties Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      HealthLogic Systems Corporation 
    Tucker, GA 
    Georgia 
      Heathrow LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Henry II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Hever Hill Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      High Grade Structured Credit CDO 2007-1 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Hilltop Energy Investment Corp. II 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      HNC Realty Company 
    Hartford, CT 
    Connecticut 
      Holding Services Ltd. 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      Horn VI, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Hornby Lane Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Jersey 
      IBK Holdings International Principal Investments, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      IBK Holdings Principal Investments, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      IBK International Principal Investments, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      IFIA Insurance Services, Inc. 
    Greenville, DE 
    Delaware 
      IHR, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Illinois PNT Corp. 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Delaware 
      Indian Head Banks Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    New Hampshire 
      Indopark Holdings Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Institucion Financiera Externa Merrill Lynch Bank Uruguay S.A. 
    Montevideo, Uruguay 
    Uruguay 
      International Special Situations Holdings C.V. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Netherlands 
      Inversiones Merrill Lynch Chile II Limitada 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Inversiones Merrill Lynch Chile SpA 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Investment Fund Partners 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      Investments 2234 Chile Fondo de Inversion Privado I 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Investments 2234 Chile Fondo de Inversion Privado II 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Investments 2234 China Fund 1 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 11 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 12 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 13 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 14 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 16 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 17 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund 18 B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund I B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 

11 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund II B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund III B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund IV B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund VI B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund VII B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund VIII B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund IX B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Fund X B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Overseas Holdings B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Investments 2234 Philippines Fund I (SPV-AMC), Inc. 
    Manila, Philippines 
    Philippines 
      Investments Dos Dos Tres Cuatro Chile Holdings S.A. 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Investor Protection Insurance Company 
    Burlington, VT 
    Vermont 
      IPIC Reinsurance Company 
    Burlington, VT 
    Vermont 
      IQ Absolute Return Diversified Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      IQ Absolute Return Diversified (Offshore) Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      IQ Absolute Return Select Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      IQ Absolute Return Select (Offshore) Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      IQ Global Long/Short Equity Diversified Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      IQ Global Long/Short Equity Diversified (Offshore) Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      IQ Global Long/Short Equity Select Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      IQ Global Long/Short Equity Select (Offshore) Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      IQ Global Private Equity Composite Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      IQ Global Real Asset Composite Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Isabella I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Ivy Rising Stars Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      James I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      JCCA, Inc. 
    Wilton, CT 
    Delaware 
      Jin Sheng Asset Management Company Limited 
    Taipei, Taiwan 
    Taiwan 
      Jupiter Loan Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Kaldi Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      KBA Mortgage, LLC 
    Plano, TX 
    Delaware 
      KECALP Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      KECALP International Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      KML Holdings Co., Ltd. 
    Labuan, Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      KML II Holdings Co., Ltd. 
    Labuan, Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      Korea Ranger Limited 
    Seoul, Korea 
    Korea 
      Ktesios Holding S.p.A. 
    Rome, Italy 
    Italy 
      KTP Global Finance SCA 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Cayman Islands 
      L.A. Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Laguna Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Lake Forest Holding Company 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Virginia 
      Landmark Value Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      LandSafe Appraisal Services, Inc. 
    Plano, TX 
    California 
      LandSafe Credit, Inc. 
    Rosemead, CA 
    California 
      LandSafe Default, Inc. 
    Rosemead, CA 
    Pennsylvania 
      LandSafe Flood Determination, Inc. 
    Plano, TX 
    California 
      LandSafe, Inc. 
    Plano, TX 
    Delaware 
      LandSafe Services of Alabama, Inc. 
    Montgomery, AL 
    Alabama 
      LandSafe Services, LLC 
    St. Louis, MO 
    Missouri 
      LandSafe Title of California, Inc. 
    Rosemead, CA 
    California 
      LandSafe Title of Florida, Inc. 
    Rosemead, CA 
    Florida 
      LandSafe Title of Texas, Inc. 
    Rosemead, CA 
    Texas 
      LandSafe Title of Washington, Inc. 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    Washington 
      Laredo Park Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      LaSalle Community Development Corporation 
    Chicago, IL 
    Illinois 
      LaSalle Funding LLC 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      LaSalle Street Capital, Inc. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      LBC Limited 
    Nassau, Bahamas 
    Bahamas 
      Leaves, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Leyden Bay B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Limacon Park Limited 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Ireland 
      Linville Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Live Oak Apartments, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      LKTS S.p.A. 
    Rome, Italy 
    Italy 
      Loans.co.uk Limited 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      LS Real Estate Recovery Fund (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      LS Real Estate Recovery Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Lynx Associates, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Magellan Bay Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Main Place Funding, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 

12 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Mainsearch Company Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England 
      Majestic Acquisitions Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Malbec II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MAN/AHL FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Managed Account Advisors LLC 
    Jersey City, NJ 
    Delaware 
      Managed Alternative to Concentrated Holdings (1) Fund LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Marathon Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Marathon Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Mariner Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Mariner 2X Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Mariner 2X Access II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Mariner Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marlborough Sounds LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Marlin House Holdings Limited 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      Mars 1, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Maryvale Urban Investments, LLC 
    Phoenix, AZ 
    Arizona 
      MBNA Capital B 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      MBNA Community Development Corporation 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      MBNA Direct Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England 
      MBNA Europe Finance Limited 
    Chester, England 
    Guernsey 
      MBNA Europe Funding, PLC 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      MBNA Europe Holdings Limited 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      MBNA Funding Company Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England   Wales 
      MBNA Global Services Limited 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      MBNA Indian Services Private Limited 
    Bangalore, India 
    India 
      MBNA International Properties Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England 
      MBNA Investment   Securities Limited 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      MBNA Ireland Limited 
    Carrick-on-Shannon, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      MBNA Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England   Wales 
      MBNA R   L S.a.r.l. 
    Kirschberg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      MBNA Receivables Limited 
    Chester, England 
    Jersey 
      Mecklenburg Park, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Mediterranean Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Mei Tou Holdings Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Mei Tou (Tianjin) Property Holdings Limited 
    People's Republic of China 
    China 
      Mei Ya (Tianjin) Property Holdings Limited 
    People's Republic of China 
    China 
      Mercury 1, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Meritplan Insurance Company 
    Irvine, CA 
    California 
      Merlot III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch 2008 Fortress Partners Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch 2008 Fortress Partners Offshore Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Alternative Investments LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Aquisicoes e Participacoes Brasil Ltda 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Merrill Lynch Argentina S.A. 
    Capital Federal, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Merrill Lynch Asia Investments Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      Merrill Lynch Asian Real Estate Fund Manager Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch (Australasia) Pty. Ltd. 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (Australia) Automated Markets Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (Australia) Futures Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (Australia) Nominees Pty. Limited 
    Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (Australia) Pty Ltd 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (B.V.I.) Limited 
    Tortola, British Virgin Islands 
    Virgin Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Bank (Suisse) S.A. 
    Geneva, Switzerland 
    Switzerland 
      Merrill Lynch Benchmark Holdings LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Benefits Ltd. 
    Toronto, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch (Bermuda) Services Limited 
    Hamilton, Bermuda 
    Bermuda 
      Merrill Lynch (Camberley) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Canada Credit Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Canada Holdings Company 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Canada Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Canada Services Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Canada Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Markets AG 
    Zurich, Switzerland 
    Switzerland 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.A., S.V. 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Markets (France) SAS 
    Paris, France 
    France 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Partners, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 

13 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Services, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Chile Holdings 1 LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Chile Holdings 2 LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Chile S.A. 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Merrill Lynch CIS Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch   Co., Canada Ltd. 
    Toronto, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Colombia Ltda. 
    Bogota, Colombia 
    Colombia 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities Canada, ULC 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities d.o.o. Beograd 
    Belgrade, Serbia 
    Serbia and Montenegro 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities (Europe) Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities (Europe) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities GmbH 
    London, U.K. 
    Germany 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities, Inc. 
    Houston, TX 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Commodity Financing Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Commodity Partners, L.P. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Community Development Company, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    New Jersey 
      Merrill Lynch Consulting Services (Beijing) Company Limited 
    Beijing, People's Republic of China 
    China 
      Merrill Lynch Corporate (New Zealand) Limited 
    Geneva, Switzerland 
    New Zealand 
      Merrill Lynch Corporate Services Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Corredores de Bolsa SpA 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Merrill Lynch Credit Products, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Credit Reinsurance Limited 
    Hamilton, Bermuda 
    Bermuda 
      Merrill Lynch Defease HoldCo, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Depositor, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Derivative Products AG 
    Zurich, Switzerland 
    Switzerland 
      Merrill Lynch Diversified Investments, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Diversified Opportunity Fund LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch Equities Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Equity S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch Espanola Agencia de Valores S.A. 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      Merrill Lynch Europe Funding 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Europe Intermediate Holdings 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Europe Liquidity Company Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Europe Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Europe Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Europe S.A. 
    New York, NY 
    Panama 
      Merrill Lynch European Asset Holdings Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Far East Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      Merrill Lynch Finance (Australia) Pty Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch Financial Assets Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Financial Services Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Merrill Lynch Fortress Partners Fund LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Fortress Partners Offshore Fund, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch France SAS 
    Paris, France 
    France 
      Merrill Lynch Fund Investors Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Funding Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    California 
      Merrill Lynch GENCO II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch GENCO, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Gestion, S.G.I.I.C., S.A. 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      Merrill Lynch Gilts Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Gilts (Nominees) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Global Asset Management Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Global Capital, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Emerging Markets Partners II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Emerging Markets Partners, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Emerging Markets Partners, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity (Australia) Pty Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Real Estate Opportunity Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Services Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch Government Securities of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Puerto Rico 
      Merrill Lynch GP Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Group Financing, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Group Holdings I, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Group Holdings II, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Group Holdings III, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Group Holdings IV, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 

14 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Merrill Lynch Group Holdings Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Merrill Lynch Group, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch HK Services Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      Merrill Lynch Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Merrill Lynch Holdings (Mauritius) 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Merrill Lynch Hopewell LLC 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch, Hubbard Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Icahn Partners Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Insurance Group, Inc. 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch International 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch International (Australia) Ltd 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Merrill Lynch International   Co. C.V. 
    Curacao, Netherlands Antilles 
    Curacao 
      Merrill Lynch International Finance, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    New York 
      Merrill Lynch International Holdings Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch International Incorporated 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch International Services Limited 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Investment Holdings (Mauritius) Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Merrill Lynch Investment Managers (Finance) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Holdings S.a r.l. / B.V. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Netherlands 
      Merrill Lynch Islands Limited 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Israel Ltd. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Israel 
      Merrill Lynch Japan Finance Co., Ltd. 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Merrill Lynch Japan Incorporated 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Japan 
      Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Merrill Lynch JPNDC, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch KECALP International, L.P. 1997 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch KECALP International, L.P. 1999 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch KECALP L.P. 1997 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch KECALP L.P. 1999 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Company 
    Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
    Saudi Arabia 
      Merrill Lynch L.P. Holdings Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Labuan Holdings Limited 
    Labuan, Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc. (Montana) 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Montana 
      Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc. (Puerto Rico) 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Puerto Rico 
      Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc. (Virgin Islands) 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Virgin Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc. (Washington) 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Washington 
      Merrill Lynch Liquidity Portfolio, L.P. 
    Edinburgh, Scotland 
    Scotland 
      Merrill Lynch LLC 
    Moscow, Russia 
    Russia 
      Merrill Lynch Luxembourg Finance S.A. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch Luxembourg Holdings S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch Luxembourg Investments S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch Management GmbH 
    Frankfurt, Germany 
    Germany 
      Merrill Lynch Markets (Australia) Pty. Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (Mauritius) Investments Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Merrill Lynch MBP Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Menkul Degerler A.S. 
    Istanbul, Turkey 
    Turkey 
      Merrill Lynch Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Casa de Bolsa 
    Mexico City, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      Merrill Lynch (Montevideo) S.A. 
    Montevideo, Uruguay 
    Uruguay 
      Merrill Lynch Mortgage Capital Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Mortgage Services Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Municipal ABS, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch N.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Merrill Lynch New Energy Investments 2011-1, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch NMTC Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Nominees (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
      Merrill Lynch Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch OCRE General Ltd. 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      Merrill Lynch OCRE Holdings Ltd. 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      Merrill Lynch OCRE Jersey Ltd. 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      Merrill Lynch Participacoes, Financas e Servicos Ltda 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Merrill Lynch PCG, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Belge S.A. 
    Brussels, Belgium 
    Belgium 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith (Brokers   Dealers) 
    London, U.K. 
    England 

15 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith de Argentina Sociedad Anonima, Financiera, Mobiliaria y de Mandatos 
    Capital Federal, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith (Hellas) E.P.E. 
    London, U.K. 
    Greece 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith (Middle East) S.A.L. 
    Beirut, Lebanon 
    Lebanon 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith SAS 
    Paris, France 
    France 
      Merrill Lynch Polska Sp. z o.o. 
    Warsaw, Poland 
    Poland 
      Merrill Lynch Portfolio Management Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Portfolio Managers (Channel Islands) Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      Merrill Lynch Portfolio Managers Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Princeton Incorporated 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Principal Investments Co., Ltd. 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Focus Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Focus Fund (Offshore ), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Fund II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Fund III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Fund III (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Offshore Fund, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Private Equity Offshore Fund II, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Properties Korea L.L.C. 
    Seoul, Korea 
    Korea 
      Merrill Lynch Purchase Price Investment LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Reinsurance Solutions LTD 
    Hamilton, Bermuda 
    Bermuda 
      Merrill Lynch Representacoes Ltda 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Merrill Lynch S.A. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch S.A. Corretora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Merrill Lynch S.A.M. 
    Monte Carlo 
    Monaco 
      Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd. 
    Taipei, Taiwan 
    Taiwan 
      Merrill Lynch Securities (Thailand) Limited 
    Bangkok, Thailand 
    Thailand 
      Merrill Lynch SIG Administradora e Gestora de Recursos Ltda. 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Merrill Lynch Singapore Commodities Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
    Gauteng, South Africa 
    South Africa 
      Merrill Lynch Srl 
    Rome, Italy 
    Italy 
      Merrill Lynch Strategic Investments Holdings, LLC-1 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Tailored Multi-Manager Fund XVII, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Tailored Multi-Manager Fund XXVI, LP 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Trust Services S.A. 
    Geneva, Switzerland 
    Switzerland 
      Merrill Lynch UK Finance 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch (UK) Healthcare Trustee Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch UK Holdings 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      Merrill Lynch (UK) Pension Plan Trustees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Merrill Lynch Valores S.A. Sociedad de Bolsa 
    Capital Federal, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Merrill Lynch Valuations LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Ventures Administrators, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Ventures International L.P. 2001 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Ventures, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Ventures L.P. 2001 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Yatirim Bank A.S. 
    Istanbul, Turkey 
    Turkey 
      Merrill Lynch/WFC/L, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    New York 
      Merrill Lynch Zen Asset Finance Fund, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Mership Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      MESBIC Ventures, Inc. 
    Richardson, TX 
    Texas 
      Mesirow Access, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Mesirow Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Metro Plaza, Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Midland Walwyn Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Midwest Affordable Housing 1997-1, L.L.C. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Missouri 
      Mitchell Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      ML 1633 Broadway LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML 35 LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML 300 Spear LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-AIG Healthcare Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Altaris Health Partners Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Altis FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Asian R.E. Fund C.I.M.P., L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Asian R.E. Fund C.I.P., L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Asian R.E. Fund GP, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 

16 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      ML Asian R.E. Fund GP, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Asian R.E. Fund (ML), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    England 
      ML Asian Real Estate Opportunity (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Asian Real Estate Opportunity Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Aspect FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Aspect FuturesAccess Ltd 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Asset Backed Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Banderia Cayman BRL Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-BCP V (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-BCP V Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML BlueTrend FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML CAM Jersey Limited 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Jersey 
      ML CAP III (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML CAP III Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Cardiff Holdings Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML Cardiff Jersey Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML Cayman 2003 Holding Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Cayman 2003 Investor Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Cayman Holdings Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Cayman Positions, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Clayton, Dubilier   Rice Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Cortlandt Realty Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Credit Investments Series 2008-1 Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML Credit Investments Series 2008-2 Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML-Crimson (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Cruzeiro Cayman BRL Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-CSP II Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-CSP II-A Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-CSP II (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Elevation (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Elevation Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML EMEA Holdings LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML EMEA Holdings II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Employees LBO Managers, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Energy Fund Management, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Energy Investment Corp. 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Energy Partners, LLC 
    Houston, TX 
    Delaware 
      ML Equity Holdings LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Equity Solutions Jersey Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML European R.E. Fund ML C.I., L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    England 
      ML European R.E. Fund (ML), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    England 
      ML Florido Cayman MX Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML GBP Hold Co LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML GBP Investments, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML GCRE GP, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML GCRE LPH LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Global Investments Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Global Private Equity Fund, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Global Private Equity Partners, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML HCA Co-Invest Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Hedge Fund Ventures 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Hedge Fund Ventures II 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Hicks Muse Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML IBK Positions, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Infrastructure Holdings II Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Infrastructure Holdings LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Infrastructure Holdings S.ar.l. 
    New York, NY 
    Luxembourg 
      ML Invest Finance, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Invest Holdings 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      ML Invest, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML John Locke FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Knight 2003 Holding Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Knight 2003 Investor Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML LCI Asia L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML LCI Europe L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    England 
      ML Leasing Equipment Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Leasing Servicing, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Lee Internet Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Lehman Crossroads XVIII (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 

17 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      ML-Lehman Crossroads XVIII Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML MBF GP, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML MBS Services Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      ML Newcastle (Gibraltar) Limited 
    Gibraltar, Gibraltar 
    Gibraltar 
      ML Newcastle Investments Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML Newcastle Issuer S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      ML Newcastle Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      ML North Cove Fund Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Nuveen Co-Invest, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Onyx Properties Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Petrie Parkman Co., Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Plainsboro Limited Partnership 
    Pennington, NJ 
    New Jersey 
      ML Private Equity Offshore Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Ray Co-Investor GP Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Ray Investor GP Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Ray Investor, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Ray Investor S.a.r.L. 
    New York, NY 
    Luxembourg 
      ML Real Estate II Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Salinas Cayman MX Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML SB Girvin Plaza, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML SB Lodge North Investors 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Select Futures I L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Select Futures Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Silver Lake III (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Silver Lake III Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Silver Lake Offshore Partners, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Silver Lake Special Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Silver Lake Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Silver Lake Trust II 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Silver Lake Trust II (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Spider 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Systematic Momentum FuturesAccess, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Systematic Momentum FuturesAccess, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Thomas H Lee Equity Fund VI (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Thomas H Lee Equity Fund VI Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Tonala Cayman MX Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Transtrend DTP Enhanced FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Trend Following Futures Fund LP 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Trend Following Futures Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Ubase Holdings Co., Ltd. 
    Labuan, East Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      ML UK Capital Holdings 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      ML UK Funding Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      ML UK Services Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML Umbrella FCP 
    Paris, France 
    France 
      ML Veda Co-Invest Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML VI Hotel Co LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Virgin Islands 
      ML Walton Street Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Warburg Pincus II (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Warburg Pincus III (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Warburg Pincus Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Warburg Pincus Trust II 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Warburg Pincus Trust III 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-Welsh Carson Anderson   Stowe (Offshore), L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-Welsh Carson Anderson   Stowe Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Whitby (Gibraltar) Limited 
    Gibraltar, Gibraltar 
    Gibraltar 
      ML Whitby Investments Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      ML Whitby Issuer S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      ML Whitby Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      ML Windy City Investments Holdings, L.L.C. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Winton FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Winton FuturesAccess Ltd 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      ML-WP Trust IV 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML-WP X Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MLBUSA Community Development Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MLCI Holdings, Inc. 
    Houston, TX 
    Delaware 
      MLCP Partners LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      MLDP Holdings, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MLEIH Funding 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      MLEQ Nominees Pty Limited 
    Sydney, NSW, Australia 
    Australia 

18 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      MLFS Hold Co A Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLFS Hold Co LLC 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      MLGPE A-Re, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE Associates III L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE Fund International II, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE Fund US II, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MLGPE International Capital Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE Investors, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE Partners II, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLGPE US Strategies LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MLH Merger Corporation 
    New York, NY 
    New York 
      MLHC, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MLHM, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    California 
      MLIM Capital Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      MLIM Finance S.a.r.l. 
    Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      MLIM Investments Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      MLIS Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      MLPF SH Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      MLRE II Incorporated 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      MMoney, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      MMovie Star Movie, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      MNB Smartcard Technologies, Inc. 
    Farmington Hills, MI 
    Michigan 
      Monarch Debt Recovery Participation Fund LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Monarch Debt Recovery Participation Fund LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Mortgage Equity Conversion Asset Corporation 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Mortgage Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 1 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 2 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 3 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 4 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 5 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 6 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages 7 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Mortgages plc 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Muirfield Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Multi-Family Housing Investment Fund I, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Murry Park, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      N.B. (Bahamas) Ltd. 
    Nassau, Bahamas 
    Bahamas 
      N.Y. Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      NationsBanc Leasing   R.E. Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      NationsCredit Financial Services Corporation 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    North Carolina 
      NationsCredit Insurance Agency, Inc. 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Pennsylvania 
      NB Capital Trust III 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      NB Finance Lease, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      NB Funding Company LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      NB Holdings Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      NB International Finance B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      NBCDC Osborne, Inc. 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      NEBACO, INC. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Nevada 
      Neptune 1, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Newfound Bay Limited 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    England   Wales 
      Newport Insurance Company 
    Irvine, CA 
    Arizona 
      Nexstar Financial Corporation 
    Saint Charles, MO 
    Delaware 
      NFA Funding LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Nihonbashi Loan Service Corporation 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Nihonbashi Residential Mortgage Corporation 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Nippon Loans, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      NMS Capital, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      NMS Services (Cayman) Inc. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      NMS Services, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      NMS/Oak VIII, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      NPC Internacional S.A. de C.V. 
    Juarez, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      NYSCRF Pioneer Partnership Fund A, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      Oak V Distressed Participation Fund (Fund) Offshore, L.P. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Oak V Distressed Participation Trust 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Oakridge Pines, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      O'Connor European Property Partners, L.P. 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      One Bryant Park LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Onslow Finance LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 

19 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      OOO Merrill Lynch Securities 
    Moscow, Russia 
    Russia 
      Opala Capital Fund Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Ortensia S.r.l. 
    Rome, Italy 
    Italy 
      Ortus Currency FuturesAccess LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Ortus Currency GWIM-AI Master Fund Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Ortus Currency Participation Fund LTD 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Otter Lake Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      OZDPII Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      OZOFII Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      OZOIF IRA Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Pacesetter SBIC Fund, Inc. 
    Richardson, TX 
    Texas 
      Pacesetter/MVHC, Inc. 
    Richardson, TX 
    Texas 
      Paneldeluxe Company Limited 
    Chester, England 
    England   Wales 
      Paradise Funding, Ltd. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Paradise Urban Investments, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Arizona 
      Paramount Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Park Granada LLC 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Access II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Access LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Paulson Advantage Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Advantage Access II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Advantage Access III LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Advantage Access IV LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Advantage Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Paulson Gold Participation LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Gold Participation Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Paulson Recovery Participation Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Recovery Participation Fund II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Paulson Recovery Participation Fund Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Peninsula Capital Loan Corporation 
    Seoul, Korea 
    Korea 
      Permal Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Permal PIH Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Piccadilly Financing LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Pilot Financial Corp. 
    Blue Bell, PA 
    Pennsylvania 
      Pine Harbour S.a r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Pinehurst Trading, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Pinot IV, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Pinyon Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Pinyon Park LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      PJM Office Building, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      PJM Retail Center, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      Plano Partners 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Pluto 1, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Post Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Post Access LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      PPM Monarch Bay Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      PPM Shadow Creek Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Prime Asset Custody Transfers Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Princeton Retirement Group, Inc., The 
    Atlanta, GA 
    Delaware 
      Private Equity Portfolio Fund, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Private Equity Portfolio Fund II, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Private Equity Portfolio Fund III, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Private Equity Portfolio Technology Fund, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      PRLAP, Inc. (Alaska Corporation) 
    Juneau, AK 
    Alaska 
      PRLAP, Inc. (Missouri Corporation) 
    Clayton, MO 
    Missouri 
      PRLAP, Inc. (North Carolina Corporation) 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      PRLAP, Inc. (Tennessee Corporation) 
    Knoxville, TN 
    Tennessee 
      PRLAP, Inc. (Texas Corporation) 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      PRLAP, Inc. (Virginia Corporation) 
    Richmond, VA 
    Virginia 
      PRLAP, Inc. (Washington Corporation) 
    Seattle, WA 
    Washington 
      Progress Capital Trust II 
    Blue Bell, PA 
    Delaware 
      Progress Capital Trust III 
    Blue Bell, PA 
    Delaware 
      Progress Capital Trust IV 
    Blue Bell, PA 
    Delaware 
      Prontco Pty Limited 
    Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 
    Australia 
      PT Merrill Lynch Indonesia 
    Jakarta, Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      Pydna Corporation 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Quality Properties Asset Management Company 
    Chicago, IL 
    Illinois 
      Raintree Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      ReconTrust Company, National Association 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    United States of America 

20 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Red Fox Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Red River Holdings Limited 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      Red River Park, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Regent Street II, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Relative Value HedgeAccess Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Relative Value Opportunities Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Renaissance Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Renaissance Access LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Resort Funding LLC 
    Syracuse, NY 
    Delaware 
      Richard III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Riley Chase Apartments, LLC 
    Tampa, FL 
    Florida 
      Riverfalls Urban Investments, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Riviera Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Robeco-Sage Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Robeco-Sage Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Robertson Stephens Group, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Robertson Stephens International Holdings, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Robertson Stephens International, Ltd. 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Rockett, LLC, The 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      ROP Investments Limited 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      Rosedale General Partner, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      Rosedale Terrace Limited Partnership 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      S.N.C. Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      SA Mortgage Services, LLC 
    Calabasas Hills, CA 
    Delaware 
      Saturn 1, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Sauternes V, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Sawgrass Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      SB Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      SCIC Properties, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      SCIC San Antonio II, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      Sealion Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    Delaware 
      Second Step Asset Management Company 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      Secured Asset Finance Company B.V. 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Security Pacific Capital Leasing Corporation 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Security Pacific Hong Kong Holdings Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong 
      Security Pacific Housing Services, Inc. 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Delaware 
      Seville Urban Investments, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Siltex Properties Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Silver Peak REIT, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Sirios Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Sirios Access Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Smith Bros Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Smith Bros Nominees Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Smith Bros Participations Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Smother, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      SNC Farringdon International (Holdings) BV 
    Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      SNC International (Holdings) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      SNC Securities Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England and Wales 
      SNCFE Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong 
      Sofia II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Solimar Shipping Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      SOP M Corp. 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Maryland 
      South Charles Investment Corporation 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Georgia 
      Southport Investments, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Southstar Holding Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Southstar I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Southstar II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Southstar III, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Southstar IV, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Special Services Asset Management Company 
    Chicago, IL 
    Illinois 
      Specialized Lending, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Delaware 
      SphinX Access, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      SphinX Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Spring Valley Management LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Spruce Bay Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      SPV Colombia I LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      SPV Colombia II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Stanwich Loan Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Steers Trust Series 2007-A 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Steppington/Dallas, Inc. 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 

21 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Sterling Farms Funding, Inc. 
    Las Vegas, NV 
    Delaware 
      Stourbridge Investments Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Strategies Investment Fund, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Structured Purchaser, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Syndicated Properties Investments, LLC 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Delaware 
      Systematic Momentum II, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Tabono Partnership II, Ltd. 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Tarpon IV, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Taurus Finance Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Teardrop Diamond, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      The First Capital Access Fund, L.P. 
    Chicago, IL 
    Delaware 
      The Tabono Joint Venture 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Tidewater Pointe Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Title Guarantee Building Lessee, LLC 
    Los Angeles, CA 
    California 
      TK Holdings I, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Tonopah, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Topanga XI Inc. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Topanga XV Inc. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Topanga XX Inc. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Tops Capital Private Real Estate Investment Trust No. 2 
    Seoul, Korea 
    Korea 
      Trellus Access LTD. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      Trifesol, S.L. 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      TriSail Capital Corporation 
    Boston, MA 
    Rhode Island 
      TriSail Funding Corporation 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Tryon Assurance Company, Ltd. 
    Charleston, SC 
    South Carolina 
      Tuba IV, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Tudor Tensor FuturesAccess, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Twin Falls SL 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      Two Piccadilly Holdings, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      U.S. Trust Company of Delaware 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Union Pond Investors LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Union Realty and Securities Company 
    St. Louis, MO 
    Missouri 
      UST Private Fund Solutions, LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Delaware 
      Valley Energy Investment Fund International, L.P. 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Valley Energy Investment Fund U.S., L.P. 
    Houston, TX 
    Delaware 
      Valley Energy Investment Holdings (Mauritius) Limited 
    Port Louis, Mauritius 
    Mauritius 
      Varese Holdings S.ar.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Venus 1, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Verdot VI, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Vernon Park LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Verona V, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Victoria V, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Villages Urban Investments, LLC 
    Phoenix, AZ 
    Arizona 
      Washington Mill Lofts LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Washington Mill Manager LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      Washoe Asset Management Company 
    Reno, NV 
    Delaware 
      Waterville Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Wave Lending Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England   Wales 
      Wave Lending Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Waxhaw Park Investments, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      WCH Limited Partnership 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Wendover Lane LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      West Trade, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    North Carolina 
      Westhill Investments Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey, Channel Islands 
    Jersey 
      Westminster Properties, Inc. 
    Providence, RI 
    Delaware 
      White Rock Lane LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      White Springs LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Wickliffe A Corp. 
    Baltimore, MD 
    Virginia 
      William V, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Willowbrook Funding LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Willows SA Holdings, LP 
    Dallas, TX 
    Texas 
      Winder VI, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      WM Developer LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      WM Lofts LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      WM Master Tenant LLC 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      WOW! Mortgages   Loans Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    England 
      Y.K. Tokyo Portfolio Investment 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      YK NB Estate 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Yong Tai Asset Management Company Limited 
    Taipei, Taiwan 
    Taiwan 
      York Access, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 

22 

Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      York Acces II, LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      York Access, Ltd. 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      York Total Access LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      York Total Access II LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      York Total Access III LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      York Total Access LTD 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      York Total Access II LTD 
    New York, NY 
    Cayman Islands 
      YT West Tower Holdings Limited 
    Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands 
    Cayman Islands 
      Zentac Productions, Inc. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Zeus Recovery Fund SA 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Zeus Trading LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 

23 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.A>
 8
 bac-12312012x10kex23a.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 23 (a) 

Exhibit 23 (a) 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in: 

of Bank of America Corporation of our report dated   February 28, 2013   relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. 

Charlotte, North Carolina 
  May 4, 2013    

</EX-23.A>

<EX-23.B>
 9
 bac-12312012x10kex23b.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 23 (b) 

Exhibit 23 (b) 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in: 

of Bank of America Corporation of our report dated   February 28, 2013   relating to management's assertion of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, which appears in this Form 10-K.  

Charlotte, North Carolina 
  February 28, 2013    

</EX-23.B>

<EX-24>
 10
 bac-12312012x10kex24.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 24 

Exhibit 24  
    
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the several undersigned officers and directors whose signatures appear below, hereby makes, constitutes and appoints Ross E. Jeffries, Jr., Lauren A. Mogensen and Gary G. Lynch, and each of them acting individually, its, his or her true and lawful attorneys with power to act without any other and with full power of substitution, to prepare, execute, deliver and file in its, his or her name and on its, his or her behalf, and in each of the undersigned officer's and director's capacity or capacities as shown below, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2012  , and all exhibits thereto and all documents in support thereof or supplemental thereto, and any and all amendments or supplements to the foregoing, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys or attorney might do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  each of the undersigned officers and directors, in the capacity or capacities noted, has hereunto set his or her hand as of the date indicated below. 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 11
 bac-12312012x10kex31a.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 31 (a) 

Exhibit 31 (a) 
  Certification Pursuant to Section 302 
  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  for the Chief Executive Officer 
  I, Brian T. Moynihan, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Bank of America Corporation; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
                      Date: 
    February 28, 2013 
    /s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
  Brian T. Moynihan 
  Chief Executive 
  Officer and President 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 12
 bac-12312012x10kex31b.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 31 (b) 

Exhibit 31 (b) 
  Certification Pursuant to Section 302 
  of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  for the Chief Financial Officer 
  I, Bruce R. Thompson, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Bank of America Corporation; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
                      Date: 
    February 28, 2013 
    /s/ Bruce R. Thompson 
  Bruce R. Thompson 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 13
 bac-12312012x10kex32a.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 32 (a) 

Exhibit 32 (a) 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Brian T. Moynihan, state and attest that: 
           1.   
    I am the Chief Executive Officer of Bank of America Corporation (the  Registrant ). 
                  
    the information contained in the periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented. 
                      Date: 
    February 28, 2013 
    /s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
  Brian T. Moynihan 
  Chief Executive 
  Officer and President 

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 14
 bac-12312012x10kex32b.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 32 (b) 

Exhibit 32 (b) 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Bruce R. Thompson, state and attest that: 
           1. 
    I am the Chief Financial Officer of Bank of America Corporation (the  Registrant ). 
                  
    the information contained in the periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented. 
                      Date: 
    February 28, 2013 
    /s/ Bruce R. Thompson 
  Bruce R. Thompson 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99.A>
 15
 bac-12312012x10kex99a.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 99 (a) 

Exhibit 99 (a) 
  RESOLUTION AGREEMENT 
  This   RESOLUTION AGREEMENT   (this    Agreement   ) is made and effective as of January 6, 2013 (the    Effective Date   ), by and among (i)   FANNIE MAE  , a corporation organized under the laws of the United States (   Fannie Mae   ) and (ii)   BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.  , a national banking association and the successor-by-merger to BAC Home Loans Servicing, L.P f/k/a Countrywide Home Loans Servicing LP, Countrywide Bank, FSB, Nexstar Financial Corporation, and Wilshire Credit Corporation (   BANA    and (iii)   COUNTRYWIDE HOME LOANS, INC.  , a New York corporation (   CHL   ). 
  RECITALS REGARDING MORTGAGES 
  WHEREAS,   BANA is the successor by merger to   COUNTRYWIDE BANK FSB   (   CB   ),   BAC HOME LOANS SERVICING L.P.   f/k/a Countrywide Home Loans Servicing LP (   Servicing LP   ),   NEXSTAR FINANCIAL CORPORATION   (   Nexstar   ),   WILSHIRE CREDIT CORPORATION   (   Wilshire   ), and has succeeded by operation of law to all of the obligations of CB, Servicing LP, Nexstar, and Wilshire to Fannie Mae pursuant to the applicable Contracts (as hereafter defined); 
  WHEREAS  , Countrywide (as hereafter defined) and BANA (and its predecessors-in-interest) sold numerous single-family mortgage loans to Fannie Mae; 
  WHEREAS  , BANA services certain of the Covered Mortgages (as hereafter defined) for Fannie Mae under the terms of its Contracts with Fannie Mae; 
  WHEREAS  , pursuant to the terms of the Contracts, each BANA Party (as hereafter defined) made or assumed various Selling Representations and Warranties (as hereafter defined) to Fannie Mae with respect to each mortgage loan delivered, sold, or serviced by it to or for Fannie Mae and has Repurchase Obligations (as hereinafter defined) when such Selling Representations and Warranties are breached; 
  WHEREAS  , certain BANA Parties have assumed certain Recourse Obligations (as hereafter defined); 
  WHEREAS,   BANA, in its capacity as guarantor, guaranteed all of the obligations of Servicing LP, CB, and Nexstar to Fannie Mae under the Contracts (as hereafter defined). 
  WHEREAS,   in its capacity as seller, successor-by-merger to the original seller, servicer and/or guarantor, BANA is responsible for certain Selling Representations and Warranties, Repurchase Obligations, Recourse Obligations and Other Obligations (as hereafter defined) related to the Covered Mortgages. 
  WHEREAS  , Fannie Mae has alleged, and the BANA Parties have disputed, numerous Repurchase Obligations with respect to the Covered Mortgages; 
  WHEREAS  , each BANA Party contests and continues to dispute the claims alleged by Fannie Mae and has asserted defenses thereto; and 
  WHEREAS,   Fannie Mae and the BANA Parties have agreed to a resolution pursuant to which the BANA Parties will pay to Fannie Mae the Resolution Amount (as hereafter defined) to resolve their dispute regarding the Repurchase Obligations, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein. 
    1 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

NOW, THEREFORE  , in consideration of the mutual covenants and undertakings set forth herein, including Fannie Mae's agreement with respect to the Repurchase Obligations, Fannie Mae's releases with respect to the Covered Mortgages, the payment of the Resolution Amount to Fannie Mae, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
  AGREEMENT 
           1. 
    Definitions: 
              a. 
     [*______*]   Payment Amount    has the meaning given such term in Section 6. 
              b. 
       Adjusted MI Payment Amount    has the meaning given such term in Section 6. 
              c. 
       Agreement    has the meaning given such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. 
              d. 
       BANA Parties    shall mean BANA and CHL, and each is referred to individually as a    BANA Party   . SA Mortgage Services, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (   SA   ) (f/k/a CWB Mortgage Ventures LLC); and KBA Mortgage, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (   KBA   ) (f/k/a KB Home Mortgage LLC and f/k/a Countrywide KB Home Loans, LLC) shall also be deemed BANA Parties under this Agreement, but BANA shall perform all obligations of SA or KBA under this Agreement. 
              e. 
       BANA Released Parties    has the meaning given such term in Section 4. 
              f. 
       CHL    has the meaning given such term in the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. 
               h. 
       Contracts    means, collectively, this Agreement, the BANA Parties' (and their predecessors') Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contracts, the Selling Guide (as hereafter defined), the Servicing Guide (as hereafter defined) and any supplemental servicing instructions or directives provided by Fannie Mae, all applicable master agreements (including applicable MBS pool purchase contracts and variances), recourse agreements, repurchase agreements, indemnification agreements, loss-sharing agreements, strategic alliance agreements, and any other agreements between any BANA Party (or its predecessor in interest) and Fannie Mae applicable to any BANA Party's relationship with Fannie Mae with respect to the Covered Mortgages, including any schedules, exhibits or note grids attached to any of the foregoing, and all as amended, modified, restated or supplemented from time to time. For avoidance of doubt, any contracts with respect to a BANA Party's multifamily relationship with Fannie Mae are specifically excluded from the definition  Contracts.  
              i. 
       Countrywide    means CHL, SA and KBA. 
              j. 
       Covered Loan Defects    means in each case any actual or alleged breach of one or more Selling Representations and Warranties, or any actual or alleged facts, defects, delivery errors, or conduct that would give rise to or constitute such a breach, with respect to a Covered Mortgage, provided that such facts, breach, defect, delivery error or conduct is not determined pursuant to Section 5(b) to be an Excluded Defect. For avoidance of doubt, (i) although Fannie Mae considers MI Rescissions to be a violation of its Charter Act, MI  
       2 

Rescissions do not give rise to or constitute Excluded Defects (nor, for the avoidance of doubt, do MI Other Actions give rise to or constitute Excluded Defects); MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions will be addressed as set forth in Section 6, and (ii) breaches of representations and warranties made with respect to mortgages originated and delivered as part of the Home Affordable Refinance initiative on or after January 1, 2009, including, without limitation, all Refi Plus and DU Refi Plus Mortgages, are not Covered Loan Defects, even if they relate to valuation information related to the original loan being refinanced. 
           k. 
       Covered Mortgages    means the approximately 8.2 million single-family mortgages sold by the BANA Parties, or their predecessors in interest, to Fannie Mae that were originated between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2008 and identified in the data file sent by BANA to Fannie Mae on February 16, 2012, other than: 
                
    any Mortgages sold pursaunt to the following Master Agreements: Master Agreement No. ML02556 (First Franklin Financial Corporation subprime) and Master Agreement No. MC06614 (Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation subprime), and 
      A file listing the Covered Mortgages shall be transmitted among the Parties at the time of execution of this Agreement. 
           l. 
       DPO Status    has the meaning given such term in Section 6(c)(2). 
               n. 
       Excluded Defect    means that a Covered Mortgage: 
              (1) 
    is subject to the requirements of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, Regulation Z Section 226.32 (   HOEPA   ) (a    HOEPA Mortgage   ) or is a  residential mortgage transaction  (purchase money transaction) within the meaning of the federal Truth in Lending Act, Regulation Z, 12 CFR Section 226.32, and has either an  annual percentage rate  or  total points and fees  payable by the borrower that exceeds the applicable thresholds under HOEPA (a    HOEPA Threshold Mortgage    
              (2) 
    is secured by property located in one of the states listed in Selling Guide Section B2-1.4-02 (as it existed at the time of origination of such Covered Mortgage) that at the time of origination met the definition of a  high-cost,   high-risk  or a similar designation under the applicable state law as referenced in such section as ineligible for purchase (a    High Cost Mortgage    
              (3) 
    is subject to a defect in title to the applicable property that is not curable within the time period provided in Subsection 5(c) and/or that renders the property unable to be marketed within the time period provided in Subsection 5(c); 
              (4) 
    is subject to a curable defect in title to the applicable property which renders the property unable to be marketed and that BANA fails to cure within the time period provided in Subsection 5(c) by paying all necessary funds, or by taking, or causing to be taken, any other actions to cure such title defect and/or to allow the property to be marketed within the time period provided in Subsection 5(c); 
       3 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(5) 
    is subject to a defect in title to, or ownership of, the Mortgage, that BANA fails to cure as provided for in Subsection 5(c). For purposes of this subclause (5), if the executed security instrument for such Covered Mortgage cannot be located, the executed security instrument was not recorded as a valid first lien on the underlying property within a reasonable period of time after the Mortgage loan closing date, or Fannie Mae does not have a perfected first lien in the underlying real property, then unless BANA provides a validly issued title insurance policy insuring the first lien position of the Mortgage, the Mortgage will be deemed to have a defective title or ownership; 
              (6) 
    involves any specific misstatement, misrepresentation, or omission, by any party (including, without limitation, borrowers, property sellers, builders, real estate agents, lenders including the selling lender, mortgage brokers, loan officers, originators, appraisers, appraisal companies, closing agents, title companies or other third party vendors performing origination services) in connection with the origination of mortgage loans or the related real estate transactions that: 
              (a) 
    involved five or more Mortgages or related real estate transactions, and 
              (b) 
    was made by two or more of the aforementioned parties (provided, however, that co-borrowers shall constitute one party for purposes of this definition) acting in concert with respect to the acts that constitute the fraudulent activity with respect to all of the identified Mortgages; and 
              (c) 
    where the facts demonstrate fraudulent activity with respect to specific Mortgages; and 
              (d) 
    provided that Fannie Mae shall not be required to prove a specific intent to commit fraud but rather only that the actors intended to commit the acts that constitute fraud. 
     For purposes of this Subsection [*______*] no process or program used by any of the BANA Parties in connection with the origination of mortgage loans shall be deemed in and of itself to constitute an Excluded Defect, it being understood that for there to be an Excluded Defect under this Subsection 6 there must be a showing of the elements above with respect to specific Mortgages. 
  The provisions of this Subsection (6) and the definitions used herein are intended for the purposes of this Agreement only and shall be read in conjunction with Section 4(b). 
           (7) 
    violates any applicable Legal Requirements in effect at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase (provided that the same facts that constitute a Covered Loan Defect shall not be deemed to constitute an Excluded Defect under this clause by virtue of such facts also constituting a violation of a Legal Requirement); 
       4 

(8) 
    violates Fannie Mae's Charter Act because the Mortgage: 
              (a) 
    was secured by a residential property that is not located within the United States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or Guam at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase, as set forth in Selling Guide Section B2-3-02 (as it existed at the time of such purchase); 
              (b) 
    had an original unpaid principal balance which at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase exceeded the maximum original loan amounts set forth in Selling Guide Section B2-1.4 (as it existed at the time of such purchase) or, if such Mortgage is a subordinate lien secured by the same property as another Mortgage that Fannie Mae owns, if the original unpaid principal balance of such Mortgage when added to the unpaid principal balance of the Mortgage that Fannie Mae already owns exceeds the maximum original loan amounts set forth in Selling Guide Section B2-1.4 (as it existed at the time of such purchase); 
              (c) 
    was not secured by residential property, including a Mortgage secured by vacant land or property primarily used for agriculture, farming or commercial enterprise, or as a condominium hotel (condotel) or cooperative hotel at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase; 
              (d) 
    was secured by residential properties consisting of five or more dwelling units at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase; 
              (e) 
    had a loan-to-value ratio (calculated in accordance with the Selling Guide) in excess of 80 percent at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase that 
              1. 
    did not have mortgage insurance on the portion of the Mortgage in excess of 80 percent of the property's value, as determined in accordance with Section B2-1.1-01 of the Selling Guide (as it existed at the time of such purchase),) provided by a mortgage insurer approved under Fannie Mae's qualified mortgage insurer approval requirements or, for DU Refi Plus and Refi Plus mortgage loans, did not otherwise meet Fannie Mae's requirements with respect to mortgage insurance on DU Refi Plus and Refi Plus mortgages; or 
              2. 
    was not sold with a recourse agreement pursuant to which a BANA Party is required to repurchase the Mortgage upon a borrower default; or 
              3. 
    was not sold on a participation basis as described in the Selling Guide, with the seller retaining not less than a 10% interest. 
     Provided, however, that (x) Fannie Mae may not require repurchase of a Mortgage under this Subsection (e) solely on a determination by Fannie Mae that correction of an allegedly incorrect appraisal of the Mortgaged Premises (y) causes the Mortgage to have an LTV Ratio over 80 percent or (z) enlarges any existing excess of the Mortgage's LTV Ratio over 80 percent). Although Fannie Mae considers a mortgage insurance rescission to be a violation of its Charter Act, MI Rescissions will be addressed as set forth in Section 6 and not as Excluded Defects. 
    5 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

If the Mortgage is a subordinate lien, then the above requirements apply if the total outstanding unpaid principal balance of the Mortgage and all other mortgages secured by the same property exceeds 80% (irrespective of whether Fannie Mae also owns the first mortgage or other mortgages). 
           (f) 
    excluding Mortgages secured by cooperative share units, was secured by an interest in property, other than an interest in real property, including, by way of example, houseboats, timeshares or other segmented ownership projects or manufactured homes that are titled as chattel property, unless a variance was granted to the applicable seller for the sale of such a Mortgage with such personal property interest; 
              (g) 
    was secured by a second home or investment property that is not a first priority lien at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase, but only if BANA is unable to cure such title defect according to the process set forth in Subsection 5(c); 
              (h) 
    was secured by a cooperative share unit where at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase the cooperative housing corporation does not comply with Section 216 of the Internal Revenue Code; 
              (i) 
    was an unsecured loan for the purchase and installation of home improvements (other than loans made with respect to energy conserving improvements, solar energy systems or residential conservation measures) that at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase were not insured under title I of the NHA; and 
              (j) 
    was secured by a manufactured home that, at the time of Fannie Mae's purchase, did not meet the requirements set forth in Selling Guide Section B2-3-05 (as it existed at the time of such purchase). 
              o. 
       Existing MI Rescission    means all MI Rescissions with respect to a Covered Mortgage prior to the Closing Date. 
              p. 
       Existing MI Other Actions    means all MI Other Actions with respect to a Covered Mortgage prior to the Closing Date. 
              q. 
     [*______*]   MI Amount    has the meaning given such term in Section 6(b)(1)(ii). 
              r. 
       KBA    has the meaning given such term in the definition of BANA Parties. 
              s. 
       Legal Requirements    means all federal, state, county, municipal and other governmental statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions of governmental authorities (i) regarding mortgage origination or underwriting, consumer credit, equal credit opportunity, usury, and/or truth-in-lending, (ii) regarding zoning requirements and the legality of improvements on the mortgaged property or the environmental condition of the mortgaged property, (iii) regarding manufactured housing, condominium projects and cooperative share units and/or (iv) affecting the Covered Mortgages or property securing the Covered Mortgages, which, in the case of (i)-(iv), if not complied with would have a material adverse effect on the holder of the Covered Mortgage, its designee, or their respective assigns, which may include (A) a material adverse effect on 
       6 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(1) the enforceability or insurability of the Covered Mortgage or the value of the property securing the Covered Mortgage, or (2) a lender's ability to service and/or foreclose on the Covered Mortgage, or (B) the imposition of materially adverse strict liability on the holder of the Covered Mortgage, its designee, or their respective assigns. For purposes of this definition, Fannie Mae's Charter Act, Selling Guides and Servicing Guides shall not be considered to be Legal Requirements. 
           t. 
       Losses    means any and all losses, damages, judgments, claims, counterclaims, causes of action of any kind or nature whatsoever (in contract, tort, or based on any other legal theory), defenses, rights of setoff, legal actions, proceedings, liabilities (including, without limitation, strict liabilities), costs, expenses, obligations, debts, liens, fines, penalties, assessments, demands, charges, fees, judgments, awards, disbursements and amounts paid in settlement, punitive damages, foreseeable and unforeseeable damages, incidental or consequential damages, of whatever kind or nature (including reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs of defense and disbursements). 
              u. 
       MBS    means mortgage-backed securities. 
              v. 
       Management Escalation Committee    means a committee comprised of a representative from each of BANA and Fannie Mae who has a management title of Senior Vice President, or more senior, and whose task is to determine whether a Covered Mortgage is subject to an Excluded Defect as described in Section 5(b). 
              w. 
       MI Company    means a mortgage insurance company. 
              x. 
     MI Coverage    means insurance coverage provided by any mortgage guaranty or similar insurance policy related to a Covered Mortgage. 
              y. 
     MI Coverage Payment    means as applicable, the [*______*] MI Amount, the [*______*] MI Payment Amount, the Adjusted MI Payment Amount and/or the [*______*] Payment Amount to be paid in accordance with Section 6. 
              z. 
       MI Rescission    has the meaning given such term in Section 6(b). 
              aa. 
       MI Other Action    has the meaning given such term in Section 6(c). 
              bb. 
       Neutral    means the neutral third party that the Parties agree will resolve the Parties' disputes, if any, as to Fannie Mae's determination that a Covered Mortgage contains an Excluded Defect as set forth in Subsection 5(b). Within thirty (30) calendar days of the Effective Date, each of BANA and Fannie Mae shall submit a list of no fewer than five (5) individuals proposed to act as the Neutral. Each Party shall have the right to strike any individuals named on the other Party's list. Within sixty (60) calendar days after the Effective Date, the Parties shall agree upon a Neutral from any remaining names on the Parties' lists. In the event the Parties cannot agree upon a Neutral within sixty (60) calendar days of the Effective Date, the Parties shall request that the American Arbitration Association (the    AAA   ) select the Neutral from the Parties' lists. Each Party shall have an unlimited right to reject any individual proposed by the AAA to be the Neutral; in the event a Party exercises this right, the Parties shall request that the AAA propose a different Neutral, and this process shall repeat (including the process of each Party submitting a list of no few than five (5) additional individuals) until the AAA proposes a Neutral that neither Party rejects. In the event that the Neutral, once chosen, resigns or is unable to perform the duties required by  
       7 

this Agreement, the Parties shall select a replacement Neutral as soon as practicable using the same process. 
           cc. 
       non-DPO Status    has the meaning given such term in Section 6(c)(1). 
              dd. 
       Other Obligations    means (1), (2), (3), and (4) as set forth below: 
              (1) 
    Servicing Obligations.   any obligations, duties, and liabilities of the BANA Parties under the Contracts that arise in connection with servicing of Covered Mortgages by the BANA Parties, including: 
              (a) 
    all servicing and/or subservicing activities undertaken with respect to the Covered Mortgages, including reporting, remitting, and loss mitigation activities; 
              (b) 
    the obligation to perform certain administrative and reporting duties with respect to real-estate owned (REO) properties; and 
              (c) 
    any obligation to indemnify Fannie Mae in litigation and for any claims made, and for Losses incurred, with respect to the servicing by the BANA Parties of the Covered Mortgages, including, without limitation (i) servicing-related Losses (for example, Losses attributable to delays in foreclosure) that may be based on acts or omissions arising out of breaches or alleged breaches of any Selling Representations and Warranties, and (ii) Losses incurred due to the BANA Parties' servicing errors or omissions or from delays in the BANA Parties' servicing and loss mitigation activities resulting from practices related to legal pleadings and affidavit preparation, review, and notarization and similar activities and practices. 
              (2) 
    Indemnification and Other Matters.   any obligations, duties and liabilities of the BANA Parties under the Contracts: 
              (a) 
    to indemnify Fannie Mae for any claims made by third parties, including borrowers, and for Losses incurred in connection with such claims, where such claims relate to any BANA Party's origination or selling activities related to the Covered Mortgages, including (without limitation), to the extent incurred in connection with such a claim, (i) Losses that arise in connection with the mortgage loans or the servicing of them prior to the delivery of the mortgage loans to Fannie Mae, and (ii) Losses arising out of acts or omissions that constitute breaches of any Selling Representations and Warranties, 
              (b) 
    to pay guaranty fees, loan-level price adjustments (LLPAs), compensatory fees, indemnification demands, technology and other fees with respect to the Covered Mortgages, 
       8 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(c) 
    to satisfy Fannie Mae capital markets sales desk obligations, and 
              (d) 
    for Recourse Obligations. 
              (3) 
    Excluded Defects:   the obligation, duties and liabilities of the BANA Parties for Excluded Defects in accordance with Subsections 5(b) and 5(c); 
              (4) 
    Mortgage Insurance:   the obligations of the BANA Parties with respect to MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions as set forth in Section 6. 
     For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this definition of  Other Obligations  is intended to create any new obligation or expand the scope (including any period of limitations or repose) of any existing obligation under the Contracts (other than with respect to Subsections 5(b) and 5(c) in regard to Excluded Defects and Section 6 in regard to MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions), and each Party reserves its rights, positions and defenses with respect thereto. These Other Obligations shall continue with respect to the BANA Parties for all Covered Mortgages for which the BANA Parties have such obligations to Fannie Mae under the Contracts and are unaffected by this Agreement. 
           ee. 
       Parties    means the BANA Parties and Fannie Mae (each, a    Party   ). 
              ff. 
       Recourse Obligations    means the applicable BANA Party(ies) (i) has assumed the entire risk of loss from a borrower default with respect to a Mortgage sold to Fannie Mae, (ii) is obligated for all or some portion of the Losses incurred on the Mortgage without requiring a breach of a servicing obligation or Selling Representation and Warranty pursuant to the Contracts, (iii) is responsible for full unconditional, conditional or partial recourse, including less than life of loan recourse, including execution of a repurchase agreement with respect to such Mortgage sold to Fannie Mae, and/or (iv) has executed a stand-alone unconditional, conditional or partial indemnification agreement pursuant to which the applicable BANA Party has agreed to indemnify Fannie Mae for all or some portion of the Losses incurred on the Mortgage. 
              gg. 
     [*______*]   MI Payment Amount    has the meaning given such term in Section 6(c)(2)(i). 
              hh. 
       Repurchase Mortgages    means the approximately 30,024 mortgages described on   Schedule 2   attached hereto. 
              ii. 
       Repurchase Obligations    means the obligation to repurchase Covered Mortgages, or to make Fannie Mae whole on Losses or projected Losses on Covered Mortgages, as a result of a Covered Loan Defect and Excluded Defects in accordance with the Selling Guide and/or other Contracts. 
              jj. 
       Resolution Amount    has the meaning given such term in Section 2. 
              kk. 
       SA    has the meaning given such term in the definition of BANA Parties. 
              ll. 
       Selling Guide    means the applicable Fannie Mae Selling Guide, as amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time (in the event this Agreement specifies the applicability of the Selling Guide as of a date certain, the Fannie Mae Selling Guide as of that date certain shall govern). 
       9 

mm. 
       Selling Representations and Warranties    means all selling representations and warranties made or assumed by the BANA Parties and their predecessors in interest in connection with the sale and/or securitization of the Covered Mortgages, including, without limitation, those set forth in Section IV-A of the Mortgage Selling and Servicing Contract, the Contractual Obligations for Fannie Approved Lenders included in Part A, Section A-2 et seq., of the Selling Guide or equivalent section of the Selling Guide in effect at the time of the sale and/or securitization of such Covered Mortgages, and/or in the other Contracts. 
              nn. 
       Servicing Guide    means the applicable Fannie Mae Servicing Guide, as amended, restated, modified or supplemented from time to time (in the event this Agreement specifies the applicability of the Servicing Guide as of a date certain, the Fannie Mae Servicing Guide as of that date certain shall govern). 
     Initially capitalized terms used in this Agreement without definition have the respective meanings set forth in the Guides in effect on the Closing Date. 
           2. 
    Payment of Resolution Amount. 
              a. 
    Resolution Amount.   The resolution amount to be paid with respect to the Covered Mortgages is   $10,299,637,152   (the    Resolution Amount   ), which is the sum of the amounts payable under Subsections 2(b) and 2(c) below and is to be paid as set forth in those subsections and with respect to Subsection 2(b), is subject to reconcilation and adjustment as set forth in Subsection 2(b). 
              b. 
    Repurchase Mortgages.   Through the customary cash remittance process for repurchases, by 2 p.m. Eastern Time on the Closing Date, the applicable BANA Party shall remit the repurchase price for the Repurchase Mortgages (calculated pursuant to the Selling Guide), which amount is the sum of (x)   $6,745,037,152   (which represents a UPB of approximately   $6,505,413,355   on the 30,024 Repurchase Mortgages and accrued interest on the Repurchase Mortgages through October 31, 2012) and (y) accrued interest on the Repurchase Mortgages for the period commencing November 1, 2012 through the Closing Date. The applicable BANA Party shall report the repurchase on or before the first reporting date after the Closing Date. Such aggregate repurchase price is subject to adjustment as set forth in subclauses 2(b)(1)-(4) below. Such repurchases shall be completed by such BANA Party's reporting of the applicable repurchase codes through Fannie Mae's reporting system on the first reporting date after the Closing Date. Upon receipt of the repurchase proceeds for each Repurchase Mortgage through the standard remittance process, all right, title and interest that Fannie Mae has in such Repurchase Mortgage shall be transferred to the applicable BANA Party as set forth in the Servicing Guide. 
              (1) 
    To the extent that a Repurchase Mortgage is liquidated (i.e. either through a foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure or pre-foreclosure sale) as of the Closing Date, then in lieu of repurchasing such mortgage, by 2 p.m. Eastern Time on the Closing Date, BANA shall pay Fannie Mae its modeled make-whole amount for such Repurchase Mortgage, which to the extent known, will be specified in the Closing Date settlement statement. Fannie Mae shall retain real property acquired with respect to such Mortgage and BANA shall continue to act as servicer with respect to such Mortgage pursuant to the Servicing Guide. 
       10 

(2) 
    To the extent a Repurchase Mortgage has been paid off in full by the borrower prior to the date such Repurchase Mortgage is required to be repurchased, on the Closing Date, BANA shall pay Fannie Mae a modeled make-whole amount for such Repurchase Mortgage, which to the extent known, will be set forth in the Closing Date settlement statement. 
              (3) 
    To the extent a Repurchase Mortgage has been repurchased prior to the Closing Date, such repurchase shall be reflected in the Closing Date settlement statement and credited against the Resolution Amount due on the Closing Date. 
              (4) 
    If necessary, on or before the date that is thirty (30) calendar days after the Closing Date, Fannie Mae and BANA shall update the Closing Date settlement statement to reflect the actual status of any Repurchase Mortgage as of the Closing Date (for example, if a Repurchase Mortgage was liquidated or paid off as of the Closing Date but its status was not correctly reflected on the Closing Date settlement statement as liquidated or paid off). To the extent that any additional amounts are due to Fannie Mae, such amounts shall be paid to Fannie Mae on or before the date that is thirty five (35) calendar days after the Closing Date. 
              c. 
    Closing Date Payment Amount.   By close of business on the Closing Date, BANA shall pay Fannie Mae the aggregate sum of   $3,554,600,000   (the    Closing Date Payment Amount   ) by wire transfer to the account below of immediately available funds. 

d. 
    The Parties also agree that there shall be no offset or reduction in any amounts due under this Agreement by any payments made under the Compensatory Fee Resolution Agreement dated as of January 6, 2013, it being understood that to the extent that there is delinquent interest overlap under the Compensatory Fee Agreement on the loans subject to SA Excluded Obligations as set forth in Section 5(d), the Parties will address any necessary adjustments to amounts paid as compensatory fees on the loans subject to SA Excluded Obligations in light of the delinquent interest overlap. 
              e. 
    Application in Fannie Mae's sole discretion.   Except as expressly provided herein, Fannie Mae shall determine, in its sole discretion, how and when to apply the Resolution Amount (including the Closing Date Payment Amount) toward losses incurred and/or anticipated on the Covered Mortgages, and the BANA Parties shall cooperate as reasonably requested in the application and reporting of funds as directed by Fannie Mae. 
              3. 
    Ownership of Covered Mortgages and related real property.   The BANA Parties acknowledge and agree that the Resolution Amount does not constitute payment of a repurchase price for any loan other than the Repurchase Mortgages and that ownership of the Covered Mortgages other than the Repurchase Mortgages and any related real property belongs to Fannie Mae and/or the related MBS trusts. 
       11 

4. 
    Release with respect to Covered Mortgages. 
              a. 
    Release.   Subject to receipt by Fannie Mae of the Closing Date Payment Amount and the BANA Parties' repurchase of the Repurchase Mortgages, and except as expressly provided in Subsection 5(a) with respect to the Other Obligations, in Subsections 5(b) and (c) with respect to Excluded Defects, and in Section 6 with respect to mortgage insurance, Fannie Mae hereby irrevocably and unconditionally releases and forever discharges the BANA Released Parties from any and all Losses arising out of, or in connection with, any actual or alleged Covered Loan Defects on the Covered Mortgages, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, asserted or unasserted, secured or unsecured, including, without limitation, all Repurchase Obligations related to Covered Loan Defects with respect to the Covered Mortgages. As used in this Agreement,    BANA Released Parties    means the BANA Parties and each of their current, former or future direct or indirect parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors, successors and assigns, including any transferee of servicing rights for the Covered Mortgage after the Effective Date, and each of their respective past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, independent contractors, accountants, attorneys, boards of directors, and administrators; each of the foregoing is referred to individually as a    BANA Released Party   . 
              b. 
    Other Claims.   For avoidance of doubt, nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to release or settle any claims brought by the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York against Bank of America Corporation and certain affiliates under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. Section 3729 et. seq. and the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, 12 U.S.C. Section 1833(a), pursuant to the action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, 12 Civ. 1422 (JSR) (the    Separate Litigation   ). Furthermore, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to constitute Fannie Mae's endorsement, support, acceptance, rejection, reduction, or acquiescence of any claims, arguments or defenses raised or asserted in the Separate Litigation. 
              5. 
    Continuing Obligations. 
              a. 
    No Effect on Other Obligations of BANA Parties.   The BANA Parties shall continue to be responsible for all Other Obligations under the Contracts and this Agreement shall not release any other party from their Other Obligations with respect to the Covered Mortgages. This Agreement is not intended to, and shall not be deemed to, alter or affect the rights or obligations of the BANA Parties, if any, with respect to the Other Obligations (other than with respect to Subsections 5(b) and 5(c) in regard to Excluded Defects and Section 6 in regard to MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions), and each of the BANA Parties and Fannie Mae reserves all of its rights and remedies, if any, under the Contracts with respect to such obligations. 
              b. 
    Process for Excluded Defects (other than title-related defect). 
              (1) 
    Fannie Mae shall provide BANA with written notice of its determination that a Covered Mortgage under this Agreement is subject to an Excluded Defect (an    Excluded Defect Notice   ), which notice shall be accompanied by all evidence or documentation, available to Fannie Mae at the time, supporting Fannie Mae's determination. The determination shall be based on the plain reading of the Agreement and the relevant Guide provisions in effect at the time the loan was purchased by Fannie Mae. In connection with any determination as to whether an Excluded Defect exists, an admission of liability concerning a settlement of a lawsuit will not in and of itself constitute an admission of the existence of facts that would  
       12 

constitute an Excluded Defect. An Excluded Defect Notice shall include all known grounds on which Fannie Mae determined that a loan has an Excluded Defect. 
           (2) 
    BANA shall have a good faith right to challenge that an Excluded Defect Notice is unwarranted. A challenge must be submitted within sixty (60) calendar days after its receipt of the Excluded Defect Notice and shall include a written description, together with all supporting documentation, that BANA wishes to be considered in connection with such challenge. 
              (3) 
    In furtherance of the foregoing, if Fannie Mae has a reasonable basis to determine that a Mortgage is a HOEPA Mortgage, a HOEPA Threshold Mortgage or High Cost Mortgage, but is unable to confirm such determination because necessary information (such as the settlement sheet) is missing from the applicable loan file, then the related Covered Mortgage will be presumed to be a HOEPA Mortgage, HOEPA Threshold Mortgage or High-Cost Mortgage, as applicable, unless (x) BANA presents credible evidence to the contrary and (y) Fannie Mae, in its reasonable discretion, determines that the evidence presented rebuts that presumption. 
              (4) 
    Fannie Mae shall respond to any such challenge within sixty (60) calendar days. 
              (5) 
    If Fannie Mae responds that, after its consideration of BANA's challenge to an Excluded Defect Notice, there is still a dispute between the Parties as to a Covered Mortgage, that dispute shall be resolved in the following manner: 
              (a) 
    First  , the dispute shall be submitted to a Management Escalation Committee. Within thirty (30) calendar days after a dispute is submitted to a Management Escalation Committee, the Management Escalation Committee shall attempt to reach a resolution of the dispute. 
              (b) 
    Second  , if the Management Escalation Committee does not reach a resolution within thirty (30) calendar days, BANA has the right to further challenge Fannie Mae's determination by submitting the dispute within five (5) calendar days to the Neutral, whose sole task shall be to determine, subject to the conditions set forth below, whether to uphold Fannie Mae's determination that the defect described in the Excluded Defect Notice constitutes an Excluded Defect: 
              (i) 
    The Parties shall submit to the Neutral, and the Neutral shall consider, (x) the Excluded Defect Notice together with any documents Fannie Mae provided to support its Excluded Defect Notice; (y) BANA's challenge thereof and the documents submitted to support its challenge; and (z) Fannie Mae's response to BANA's challenge. The Neutral may consider all relevant agreements, conduct and defenses raised by the Parties. 
       13 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(ii) 
    Within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving the materials referred to in Subsection 5(b)(5)(b)(i), the Neutral shall issue a decision as to whether to uphold Fannie Mae's determination that the Covered Mortgage has an Excluded Defect, which decision shall be final and binding on the Parties. 
              (iii) 
    The losing Party shall pay the Parties' fees and expenses, including the prevailing Party's reasonable attorneys' fees and costs (including allocated costs of in-house counsel) incurred in having the Neutral resolve the dispute within fifteen (15) calendar days after written demand. 
              (6) 
    If BANA does not oppose an Excluded Defect Notice or if Fannie Mae's determination in the Excluded Defect Notice is upheld, Fannie Mae may issue a repurchase request with respect to the Covered Mortgage at issue, and, if Fannie Mae does so, BANA shall repurchase or pay the make-whole amount with respect to such Covered Mortgage with an Excluded Defect within fifteen (15) calendar days of receiving such repurchase request. BANA shall have no right to further oppose such repurchase request. BANA shall not receive any credit or adjustment to the repurchase or make-whole amount as a result of its payment of the Resolution Amount. 
              (7) 
    Any Repurchase Obligations required to be performed by BANA pursuant to this Subsection 5(b) shall be completed by BANA's reporting of the applicable repurchase codes through Fannie Mae's reporting system. All make-whole payments made in satisfaction of BANA's Repurchase Obligations shall be wire transferred to Fannie Mae's account set forth in Section 2. 
              c. 
    Process for Excluded Defects relating to title defects. 
              (1) 
    In the case of a title defect described in clauses (3), (4), (5), or (8)(g) of the definition of Excluded Defects (or if not cured, could become an Excluded Defect under clauses (3), (4), (5), or (8)(g) of the definition of Excluded Defects), (i) Fannie Mae shall provide BANA with an Excluded Defect Notice, as described in subsection 5(b)(1) or (ii) BANA may itself identify a title-related defect that if not cured may become an Excluded Defect (each, a    Title Defect Notice   ). 
              (2) 
    Within sixty (60) calendar days after Fannie Mae's submission of an Excluded Defect Notice related to a title defect described in clauses (3), (4), (5), or (8)(g) of the definition of Excluded Defects or BANA's submission of a Title Defect Notice, BANA shall inform Fannie Mae in writing whether (i) the title defect is curable and BANA intends on curing it or (ii) BANA will challenge the Excluded Defect Notice, together with all supporting documentation of why Fannie Mae's determination should not be upheld (which challenge shall be governed by Subsection 5(b)). 
              (3) 
    If BANA elects to cure the title-related defect identified pursuant to Subsection 5(c)(1), it shall cure the defect within [*______*] calendar days after the subsmission of the Excluded Defect Notice or Title Defect Notice, as applicable. If the title-related defect is not cured within those [*______*] calendar days, the Covered Mortgage shall be deemed to have an Excluded Defect, a determination that is final  
       14 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

and binding and not subject to appeal, and BANA shall repurchase it pursuant to the process described in Subsections 5(b)(6) and (7). 
           d. 
    Servicing Advances.   As used in this Section, the term    SA Excluded Obligation    means a Repurchase Obligation which was (i) the subject of a repurchase or make-whole demand issued prior to the Effective Date and (ii) for which the underlying property was disposed by Fannie Mae prior to the Effective Date. Except for servicing advances up to $38,000,000 in the aggregate on loans that are subject to SA Excluded Obligations (to be applied pro rata across all loans and which will be shown as a credit to BANA on the Closing Date settlement statement), Fannie Mae will not reimburse the BANA Parties for servicing advances related to loans that are subject to SA Excluded Obligations. To the extent that any servicing advances on loans subject to SA Excluded Obligations are not reimbursed, Fannie Mae shall review such loans to determine whether there is any delinquent interest overlap under the Compensatory Fee Agreement. From and after the Closing Date, Fannie Mae shall reimburse the BANA Parties for all other servicing advances made by the BANA Parties pursuant to the Servicing Guide; and all such reimbursements shall be made in accordance with Fannie Mae's standard processes and procedures set forth in the Servicing Guide, including, but not limited to, all applicable non-reimbursements and curtailments, subject to any offset rights, as applicable; provided, however, that Fannie Mae shall not withhold any servicing advances based upon obligations released in this Agreement. 
              e. 
    No Compromise against Third Parties.   This Agreement does not compromise or release any claim or defense of any BANA Party with respect to any third party, including but not limited to any insurer, or any correspondent, for any cost or expense hereunder, including attorneys' fees and costs. Except as stated in Subsection 4(a), no Party hereto makes any admission, or waives or releases any claim or defense it may have, with respect to any third party. 
              6. 
    Mortgage Insurance.   The following provisions shall apply to all MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions on Covered Mortgages other than Repurchase Mortgages (it being understood that after a BANA Party repurchases the Repurchase Mortgages, Fannie Mae shall have no further rights to payments on account of MI Coverage on such Repurchase Mortgages), including all Existing MI Rescissions and Existing MI Other Actions. This Section 6 describes all of the BANA Parties' and Fannie Mae's obligations and rights with respect to such MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions. 
              a. 
    INTENTIONALLY DELETED 
              b. 
    Origination Breach; [*______*].   If MI Coverage is rescinded, cancelled or denied because of a breach of selling representation and warranty (including any origination defect or any failure to meet the origination requirements of the MI Company) (each, an    MI Rescission   ), then: 
              (1) 
    DPO Status or non-DPO Status.   Irrespective of whether the MI Company is in DPO status (as hereafter defined): 
              (i) 
    If Fannie Mae believes that the Covered Mortgage that is the subject of the MI Rescission has an Excluded Defect, Fannie Mae shall submit an Excluded Defect Notice, which shall be resolved as specified in Subsection 5(b) (Excluded Defects) and the provisions of that Subsection shall apply. 
       15 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(ii) 
    If there is no Excluded Defect, [*______*], using the claim payment option under the MI Coverage pursuant to which the insurance benefit is calculated as [*______*] up to date of claim filing ( [*______*]   MI Amount   ) in three parts: 
              (1) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount on the date that is thirty (30) calendar days after the later of (x) the time the Covered Mortgage's servicer would, in the ordinary course of its business, present such mortgage insurance claims to the MI Company (i.e., 60 days after completion of the foreclosure proceeding, acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure, approval of a pre-foreclosure sale, or acquisition at foreclosure by a third party), [*______*], provided that to the extent such date occurred prior to the Effective Date, then such payment shall be paid on the Closing Date (the date of such payment is referred to as the    Initial MI Coverage Payment Date   ). In the event that an MI Company does not pay a claim within one hundred and eighty (180) days of completion of the foreclosure proceeding, acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure, approval of a pre-foreclosure sale, or acquisition at foreclosure by a third party, to the extent that the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date has not already occurred, the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date shall be deemed to have occurred on such 180th day. 
              (2) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount nine (9) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action (as hereafter defined) occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
              (3) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount no later than twelve (12) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action (as hereafter defined) occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
     If, within nine (9) months of the Effective Date, [*______*] the nine-month period set forth in clause (2) of this Subsection shall be extended to twelve (12) months, and the twelve-month period set forth in clause (3) of this Subsection shall be extended to fifteen (15) months. 
    16 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(iii) 
    A    Final MI Action    shall occur, if at all, when such MI Rescission is (a) finally rendered by a court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction, including exhaustion of all appeals, (b) accepted as valid by the BANA Parties or (c) covered under an approved risk sharing agreement with an MI Company as described in Subsection 6(g) or another similar Fannie Mae approved bulk resolution agreement. 
              (iv) 
    Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection 6(b)(1)(ii), if a BANA Party enters into a risk sharing agreement with an MI Company that is in DPO Status as of the Effective Date, which agreement includes a Covered Mortgage on which there has been an MI Rescission prior to a BANA Party's entry into such risk sharing agreement, [*______*] 
              c. 
    No Origination Breach.   If the MI Coverage is cancelled or denied for any reason and there has not been an MI Rescission (an    MI Other Action   ), the MI Other Action will be handled in the following manner: 
              (1) 
    Non-DPO Status.   If the MI Company is not reducing the percentage of claims as a result of insolvency or financial hardship (   non-DPO status   ), then: 
              (i) 
    If there is no servicing breach, [*______*] in three parts: 
              (1) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount on the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date. 
              (2) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount nine (9) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
              (3) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount no later than twelve (12) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
     If, within nine (9) months of the Effective Date, [*______*] the nine-month period set forth in clause (2) of this Subsection shall be extended to twelve (12) months, and the twelve-month period set forth in clause (3) of this Subsection shall be extended to fifteen (15) months. 
    17 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(ii) 
    If there is a servicing breach: 
               (i) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount on the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date. 
              (ii) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount nine (9) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
              (iii) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Amount no later than twelve (12) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
     If, within nine (9) months of the Effective Date, [*______*] the nine-month period set forth in clause (ii) of this Subsection shall be extended to twelve (12) months, and the twelve-month period set forth in clause (iii) of this Subsection shall be extended to fifteen (15) months. 
           (2) 
    The applicable BANA Party shall remain responsible for all Losses arising out of the servicing breach in accordance with the Contracts; including, without limitation, all: 
              (i) 
    indemnification obligations in accordance with the Servicing Guide and other Contracts, including indemnification obligations for losses attributable to any curtailments or other reductions by the MI Company on account of the servicing breach; and 
              (ii) 
    compensatory fees or other amounts in accordance with the Servicing Guide and other Contracts. 
     Nothing in this clause (2) shall constitute a waiver of any defenses that a BANA Party may have under the Contracts or otherwise. 
           (2) 
    DPO Status.   If the MI Company is reducing the percentage of claims paid because the MI Company is insolvent or otherwise financially unable to pay and is issuing deferred payment obligations (   DPO Status   ), then: 
       18 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(i) 
    No servicing breach.   If there is no servicing breach, then: 
              (1) 
    [*______*] using the claim payment option under the MI Coverage pursuant to which the insurance benefit is calculated as a percentage of the default UPB plus interest and certain costs up to date of claim filing), taking into account the MI Company's DPO Status ( [*______*]   MI Payment Amount   ) in three parts: 
              (i) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Payment Amount on the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date. 
              (ii) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Payment Amount nine (9) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
              (iii) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Payment Amount no later than twelve (12) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
     If, within nine (9) months of the Effective Date, [*______*] the nine-month period set forth in clause (ii) of this Subsection shall be extended to twelve (12) months, and the twelve-month period set forth in clause (iii) of this Subsection shall be extended to fifteen (15) months. 
           (2) 
    Fannie Mae shall receive any deferred payment obligation (   DPO   ) from the MI Company. To the extent a BANA Party receives any payments from the MI Company on the DPO, the BANA Party agrees to promptly remit such payment to Fannie Mae. [*______*] 
              (ii) 
    Servicing breach.   If there is a servicing breach, then: 
              (1) 
    [*______*] in three parts: 
              (i) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Payment Amount on the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date. 
       19 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(ii) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Payment Amount nine (9) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
              (iii) 
    [*______*] the [*______*] MI Payment Amount no later than twelve (12) months after the Initial MI Coverage Payment Date, unless a Final MI Action occurs earlier, in which case [*______*] shall be due within thirty (30) calendar days of such Final MI Action. 
     If, within nine (9) months of the Effective Date, [*______*] the nine-month period set forth in clause (ii) of this Subsection shall be extended to twelve (12) months, and the twelve-month period set forth in clause (iii) of this Subsection shall be extended to fifteen (15) months. 
           (2) 
    The applicable BANA Party shall remain responsible for all Losses arising out of the servicing breach in accordance with the Contracts; including, without limitation, all: 
              (i) 
    indemnification obligations in accordance with the Servicing Guide and other Contracts, including indemnification obligations for losses attributable to any curtailments or other reductions by the MI Company on account of the servicing breach; 
              (ii) 
    compensatory fees or other amounts in accordance with the Servicing Guide and other Contracts; 
     Nothing in this clause (2) shall constitute a waiver of any defenses that a BANA Party may have under the Contracts or otherwise. 
           (3) 
    In addition, Fannie Mae shall receive any DPO from the MI Company if there was any [*______*] MI Payment Amount. 
     [*______*] 
           (iii) 
    MI Rescission and MI Other Action.   If there is both an MI Rescission and an MI Other Action, the provisions of Subsection 6(b) shall apply with respect to the MI Rescission regardless of whether the MI Company is in DPO-status. 
       20 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

d. 
    Cooperation.  [*______*] Fannie Mae shall retain any outstanding DPO from the MI Company representing all or a portion of the difference between the [*______*] MI Payment Amount and [*______*] MI Amount as well as all rights to enforce the DPO against the MI Company. If any payment is made by an MI Company to a BANA Party on account of a DPO, then the BANA Party shall remit such payments to Fannie Mae. To the extent there is a DPO, each BANA Party shall reasonably cooperate with Fannie Mae in enforcing any DPO from an MI Company. In no event shall Fannie Mae be entitled to receive more than the [*______*] MI Amount or, if [*______*] 
              e. 
    [*______*] Where Certain MI Other Actions Reversed.   In any case where: 
              (1) 
    A [*______*] to [*______*] all or part of a [*______*] MI Amount after the Effective Date on account of an MI Other Action at a time when the relevant MI Company is not in DPO status; 
              (2) 
    There is no risk sharing agreement with the relevant MI Company; 
              (3) 
    Such MI Other Action is reversed for any reason on or before December 31, 2013 and the BANA Party provides Fannie Mae with prompt written notice of the reversal; and 
              (4) 
    At the time of such reversal, the relevant MI Company is in DPO Status or otherwise unable to repay the [*______*] MI Amount [*______*] 
     [*______*] 
           f. 
    Process if no Fannie Mae-approved MI Risk Share Agreement. 
              (1) 
    Within ten (10) calendar days after the cut-off for the regular reporting to Fannie Mae of MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions, BANA shall provide a report to Fannie Mae: 
              (i) 
    identifying all Covered Mortgages for which a BANA Party received and boarded during the preceding monthly reporting cycle notice from the MI Company of an MI Rescission or MI Other Action during such calendar month; 
       21 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(ii) 
    using best efforts to identify the applicable MI Coverage Payment (i.e., the [*______*] MI Amount or the [*______*] MI Payment Amount) for all such mortgages; 
              (iii) 
    providing an accounting of all amounts received by a BANA Party during such calendar month on account of a DPO obligation [*_______*] 
              (2) 
    Within thirty (30) calendar days of receiving a request from Fannie Mae, BANA shall provide an electronic file to Fannie Mae including all documents or notices received from an MI Company relating to an MI Rescission or MI Other Action reported pursuant to Subsection 6(f)(1). 
              (3) 
    The report and electronic file described in Subsections 6(f)(1) and (2) shall be in addition to the regular reporting of MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions required by the Guides. 
               (5) 
    Fannie Mae may review all loans on the report pursuant to Subsection 6(f)(1) to determine if they are subject to an Excluded Defect. Identification, notice and repurchase demands related to Excluded Defects will be handled in accordance with the Excluded Defect process outlined in Subsection 5(b)(2) (Excluded Defects). 
              g. 
    Process if a BANA Party desires to enter into MI Risk Share Agreement.   If a BANA Party desires to enter into a risk sharing agreement with any MI Company that includes any Covered Mortgages, that BANA Party shall present the terms and conditions to Fannie Mae for its review and approval, which approval may be granted, conditioned or denied in Fannie Mae's sole discretion within thirty (30) days after Fannie Mae receives all requested information. To the extent an MI Other Action is not covered by a risk sharing agreement, such MI Other Action shall not be subject to the terms of this Subsection and shall remain subject to the terms of Subsection 6(c). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Fannie Mae shall not unreasonably withhold, deny or condition consent to the terms of a risk sharing agreement where in connection with such agreement: 
              (1) 
    the MI Company is responsible for paying Fannie Mae the [*______*] MI Amount in accordance with the terms of the original mortgage insurance policy [*______*] MI Amount), provided, however, that if the MI Company subsequently enters DPO Status, [*______*] or 
              (2) 
    if the MI Company is in DPO Status, Fannie Mae will be paid and/or receive the following amounts: 
              (i) 
    an amount from the MI Company (the    Adjusted MI Payment Amount   ) calculated as follows: ([*______*] MI Amount x (100%-RR%)) x PR% where 
       22 

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(1) 
       RR%    means the MI Company's negotiated rescission rate (expressed as a percentage) for loans sold to Fannie Mae for the applicable BANA Party(ies) 
              (2) 
       PR%    means the MI Company's cash percentage claims payment rate (i.e., 100% minus the DPO percentage) 
              (ii) 
    an [*______*] (the  [*______*]   Payment Amount   ) [*______*] calculated as follows: [*______*] MI Amount x RR% 
              (iii) 
    plus Fannie Mae is entitled to DPO from the MI Company in an amount equal to not less than the [*______*] MI Amount minus the sum of (i) the Adjusted MI Payment Amount and the (ii) [*______*] MI Payment Amount. 
     Any payments to be made by the MI Company shall be paid in accordance with the mortgage insurance policy. 
  The BANA Party shall not pay any fee to the MI Company in DPO Status as consideration for their agreement to stop issuing MI Rescissions. Rather, in return for the MI Company ceasing to issue MI Rescissions, the MI Company will reduce the amount paid with respect to all future claims, before the application of any DPO, by the RR%. 
  Example 1: Assume loan with a UPB of $100K; MI Coverage Amount of $20K; rescission rate of 15%; MI Company paying claims at a rate of 50%. Fannie Mae would receive: 

Absent the settlement, if there were 100 loans with a UPB of $100K each and MI Coverage Amount of $20K, Fannie Mae would have received: 

Calculation results in Fannie Mae receiving [*______*] on each loan, resulting in [*______*] 
           h. 
    Amounts received by Fannie Mae prior to the Effective Date.   Notwithstanding anything else in this Section, Fannie Mae will not return, under any circumstances, any amounts that it received from BANA or an MI Company prior to the Effective Date on account of MI Coverage. 
       23 

7. 
    Private Agreement.   This Agreement is a private and final Agreement between the Parties hereto. 
              8. 
    Fraudulent Transfer/Preference.   If the Resolution Amount is ever challenged by any person or entity, including any trustee in bankruptcy, as a fraudulent transfer, a preferential payment, or on any other basis seeking to invalidate such amounts or return of the funds paid, the funds accepted by Fannie Mae as the Resolution Amount shall be considered to have been subject to a perfected first lien security interest and held as collateral for the obligations of the BANA Parties under this Agreement and for the Repurchase Obligations and existing Recourse Obligations and shall be returned to such status to the extent any return of funds is required and Fannie Mae reserves and retains all rights to assert and collect all Repurchase Obligations and existing Recourse Obligations with respect to the Covered Mortgages to the extent of funds so returned, as if this Agreement had not been made. 
              9. 
    Publicity.   If any BANA Party or Fannie Mae deems it reasonably necessary to make any public comments or statements, or to issue a press release or talking point/Q A document, relating to this Agreement or the resolution described herein (any of the foregoing, a  Public Statement ) at any time, each BANA Party and Fannie Mae agree that: 
              a. 
    Any Public Statement shall not contain or imply any negative or adverse characterization of the other Party, this Agreement, the resolution contemplated in this Agreement, the other Party's practices or the Covered Mortgages; 
              b. 
    Any Party making or issuing an initial Public Statement after entry into this Agreement will take reasonable good faith efforts to ensure, to the extent reasonably possible, that the general content of the initial Public Statement and the timing of the initial Public Statement is mutually satisfactory to the Parties, including, but not limited to, by providing the non-disclosing Parties with advance notice of the initial Public Statement (of at least twenty-four hours when feasible) and an opportunity to review and comment on the same; and 
              c. 
    If, after the public dissemination of an initial Public Statement, either Party anticipates including in a subsequent Public Statement information that is substantively new and materially different from what was included in the prior Public Statement, such Party will use reasonable and good faith efforts to provide the other Party in advance of making such subsequent Public Statement, to the extent reasonably possible, with any information that is substantively new and materially different from the information disclosed in the prior Public Statement. 
              d. 
    Notwithstanding anything else contained in this Section, (i) any Party may, in its sole discretion, make any disclosure that it deems necessary or advisable in filings required by applicable law or regulation, including the Federal securities laws, and including filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission of Forms 8-K, 10-Q or 10-K; and (ii) a disclosure by a Party to a regulator with oversight authority over such Party shall not be deemed a Public Statement for purposes of this Section. 
       24 

a. 
    This Agreement (including all terms and conditions hereof and all Schedules described in the Appendix attached hereto), as well as all documents, communications, drafts and/or all other materials of any kind relating to the negotiation of this Agreement, the circumstances leading thereto, or the implementation of this Agreement by the Parties (collectively, the    Confidential Information   ), shall be deemed and shall remain confidential; provided, however, that the Parties agree that any Party may discuss and disclose the terms and conditions of this Agreement pursuant to the terms of Section 9 regarding publicity above. 
              b. 
    The Parties covenant and agree to each other that they will not discuss or divulge any Confidential Information, with or to any person, firm, corporation or other entity, except: 
              (1) 
    to such party's subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers, external or internal agents, representatives, professional advisers, attorneys, accountants, auditors, insurers, and employees, who have a need to know, are under a duty of non-disclosure with respect to such information, and are under a duty to implement appropriate measures to maintain the confidentiality, security and integrity of such information; 
              (2) 
    to enforce, in an action by a BANA Party or Fannie Mae, the terms of this Agreement, to the extent reasonably necessary for purposes of enforcement; 
              (3) 
    in response to a court order, subpoena, or other demand or request made by a governmental or quasi-governmental body having jurisdiction over such Party or the matters described in this Agreement (including the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the SEC, and the Internal Revenue Service), and subject to the receipt of notice, as provided in Subsection (c) below, and the request by the Party that received the court order, subpoena, or other demand or request that such information be treated in confidence; 
              (4) 
    as required by applicable law or regulation, including the Federal securities laws, or as that Party may determine in its sole discretion is necessary or advisable as part of its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission of Forms 8 K, 10 Q or 10 K and related disclosures to investors; and 
              (5) 
    as expressly provided in Section 9 regarding publicity. 
              c. 
    Each Party shall use its reasonable efforts under the circumstances to provide the other Party with reasonable notice that it has been requested to disclose Confidential Information as described in Subsection 10(b)(3) no later than five (5) business days after the receipt of the court order, subpoena, or other demand or request seeking the disclosure of Confidential Information (and to the extent reasonably practicable, at least three (3) business days prior to disclosure of Confidential Information). 
              d. 
    Upon Fannie Mae's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, a BANA Party may discuss or divulge Confidential Information to the extent expressly permitted by Fannie Mae to a qualified bidder or investor in connection with the sale of such BANA Party or any of its assets who have a need to know the Confidential Information, so long as such qualified bidder or investor executes a non-disclosure and confidentiality agreement reasonably satisfactory to Fannie Mae. Each BANA Party acknowledges that such qualified bidder or investor may directly or indirectly have existing or future business relationships with Fannie Mae and that as a result, Fannie Mae may withhold or condition its consent to the disclosure of any Confidential Information in its reasonable discretion. 
       25 

e. 
    Material protected by this Section 10 shall be deemed to fall within the protection afforded to compromises and offers to compromise by Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence and similar provisions of state law or state rules of court. 
              11. 
    Representations and Warranties. 
              a. 
    BANA Party Representations and Warranties.   Each BANA Party represents and warrants that: 
              (1) 
    Corporate Existence and Authority.   Such BANA Party (i) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its chartering authority and has full power and authority to own and operate its properties and to conduct its business as now conducted by it, and (ii) has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. Such BANA Party has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the performance of the transactions contemplated hereby. 
              (2) 
    Third Party Consents.   No governmental authority or other third party consents (including but not limited to approvals, licenses, registrations or declarations) are required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by such BANA Party of this Agreement, other than such consents as have been duly obtained and are in full force and effect. 
              (3) 
    Execution and Enforceability.   This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by such BANA Party and when this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Fannie Mae, this Agreement will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligation of such BANA Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights in general and by general equity principles (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). 
              (4) 
    Conflict with Law.   Neither the execution and delivery nor the performance by such BANA Party of this Agreement will result in any violation by such BANA Party of, or be in conflict with, any provision of any applicable law or regulation, or any order, writ or decree of any court or governmental authority. 
              (5) 
    Official Record.   For each BANA Party that is a federally-insured institution that is subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, such BANA Party's execution and delivery of this Agreement has been approved by an officer of such BANA Party who was duly authorized by the board of directors of such BANA Party to enter into such types of transaction. In addition, such BANA Party represents and warrants that it (or any successor thereto) shall, and hereby covenants to, continuously maintain all components of such agreement or undertaking as an official record of Lender. 
       26 

b. 
    Fannie Mae Representations and Warranties.   Fannie Mae hereby represents and warrants that: 
              (1) 
    Authority.   Fannie Mae has full power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. Fannie Mae has taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the performance of the transactions contemplated hereby. 
              (2) 
    Third Party Consents.   No governmental authority or other third party consents (including but not limited to approvals, licenses, registrations or declarations) are required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by Fannie Mae of this Agreement, other than such consents as have been duly obtained and are in full force and effect, including the consent of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Fannie Mae has not assigned any of its interest in the claims and rights it is waiving by executing this Agreement to any other person or entity. 
              (3) 
    Enforceability.   This Agreement, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery hereof by the BANA Parties, constitutes the valid, binding and legal obligation of Fannie Mae, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights in general and by general equity principles (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). 
              c. 
    All Parties.   Each of the Parties to this Agreement hereby represents and warrants, as of the Closing Date: 
              (1) 
    it is not entering into the transactions contemplated hereby with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding any of its respective current or future creditor or creditors; 
              (2) 
    it has entered into this Agreement voluntarily and not as a result of coercion or duress; 
              (3) 
    it fully understands its risks and liabilities in entering into this Agreement, and represents that the other Party has not made any statement or representation to it regarding any facts relied upon in entering into this Agreement, and each of them specifically does not rely upon any statement, representation, or promise of the other Party hereto or any other person in entering into this Agreement, or in making the resolution provided for herein, except as expressly stated in this Agreement; and 
              (4) 
    it has relied upon its own investigation and analysis of the facts and not on any statement or representation (other than the representations and warranties expressly set forth in this Section 11) made by any other party in choosing to enter into this Agreement. 
       27 

12. 
    Cooperation.   Upon a BANA Party's request, Fannie Mae will reasonably cooperate with and provide reasonable assistance to that BANA Party in exercising any of its rights or remedies available to it against any applicable third party or correspondent from which it may have purchased any of the Covered Mortgages, including providing a confirmation letter stating that there has been a now-resolved claim with respect to a Covered Mortgage, to affirm that a claim for repurchase with respect to a Covered Mortgage has been addressed by this Agreement and/or confirming the liquidation status for any Covered Mortgage, and if liquidated, providing the applicable loss supporting documentation (i.e. loss statement, HUD-1 settlement statement, etc.). 
              13. 
    No Admission.   The resolution of this matter is voluntary. The Parties hereto acknowledge that they expressly understand that this Agreement and the resolution it represents are entered into solely for the purpose of avoiding any future dispute with respect to the Covered Mortgages as they relate to the matters that are released pursuant to this Agreement. This Agreement and any negotiations leading thereto do not constitute an admission of any fact or claim by any BANA Party with respect to the Covered Mortgages. This Agreement shall not be used as an admission against any Party in this or any other past, present or future claim or matter. Neither this Agreement nor any provision herein shall be considered or treated as a precedent, either for purposes of the Parties' or their affiliates' future dealings or otherwise. 
              14. 
    Notices.   All notices or demands relating to this Agreement shall be in writing and either personally served or sent by a nationally recognized overnight delivery service and shall be deemed to be given for purposes of this Agreement on the earlier of the date of actual receipt or three days after the deposit thereof in the mail. Unless otherwise specified in a notice sent or delivered in accordance with the provisions of this section, such writing shall be sent, as follows: 

28 

15. 
    Governing Law and Waiver of Jury Trial.   This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, including Section 5-1401 and 5-1402 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York, without giving effect to New York's principles of conflicts of law. Each of the Parties hereto specifically and irrevocably consents to binding arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association pursuant to the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association with respect to any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof other than disputes with respect to Excluded Defects, which shall be resolved in accordance with the process set forth in Section 5(b). Any arbitration under this Agreement shall be conducted in Washington, D.C. or New York, unless the Parties otherwise agree. Any judgment upon the reward by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. EACH PARTY HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY, WAIVES (TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW) ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY DISPUTE ARISING UNDER OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AND AGREES THAT ANY SUCH DISPUTE SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A JUDGE SITTING WITHOUT A JURY. 
              16. 
    Successors.   All terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding on the successors and assigns of each BANA Party and Fannie Mae. 
              17. 
    No Third Party Beneficiary.   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement, nothing expressed or referred to in this Agreement is intended, or shall be construed, to give any person other than Fannie Mae and each BANA Party any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or with respect to this Agreement or any provisions contained herein, it being the intention of the Parties hereto that this Agreement, the obligations and statements of responsibilities hereunder, and all other conditions and provisions hereof are for the sole and exclusive benefit of Fannie Mae and each BANA Party, and for the benefit of no other person. 
              18. 
    Waiver.   Each BANA Party and Fannie Mae may waive its respective rights, powers or privileges under this Agreement; provided, that such waiver shall be in writing; and further provided, that no failure or delay on the part of Fannie Mae or any BANA Party to exercise any right, power or privilege under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor will any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege under this Agreement preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege by the Party under this Agreement, nor will any such waiver operate or be construed as a future waiver of such right, power or privilege under this Agreement. 
              19. 
    Severability.   Excepting the provisions regarding the Resolution Amount, the release set forth in Section 4, and the rights and obligations set forth in Sections 5 and 6, if any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid or unenforceable, then, to the extent possible, all of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be binding upon the Parties hereto. 
              20. 
    Reservation of Rights. 
              a. 
    Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, each BANA Party and Fannie Mae acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not change the respective contractual rights, obligations, or remedies of such BANA Party or Fannie Mae. 
              b. 
    Except to the extent otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, Fannie Mae reserves all of its rights and remedies with respect to the Other Obligations (other than with respect to Subsections 5(b) and 5(c) in regard to Excluded Defects and Section 6 in regard to MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions) and with respect to all mortgages other than the Covered Mortgages. 
       29 

c. 
    Except to the extent otherwise expressly set forth in this Agreement, each BANA Party reserves all of its rights and defenses with respect to the Other Obligations (other than with respect to Subsections 5(b) and 5(c) in regard to Excluded Defects and Section 6 in regard to MI Rescissions and MI Other Actions) and with respect to all mortgages other than the Covered Mortgages. 
               a. 
    Headings.   The headings and subheadings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement or any provision hereof. 
              b. 
    Counterparts.   This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which is fully effective as an original and all of which together constitute one and the same instrument. Executed documents may be delivered and exchanged by facsimile or other electronic means. 
              c. 
    Interpretation.   This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted fairly as to all Parties and not in favor or against any Party, regardless of which Party prepared this Agreement. The use of any gender in this Agreement shall be deemed to be or include the other genders, including neuter, and the use of the singular shall be deemed to be or include the plural (and vice versa) wherever applicable. The use of the word  include  or  including , when following any general statement, term or matter, shall not be construed to limit such statement, term or matter to the specific items or matters set forth immediately following such word or to similar items or matters, whether or not any no limitation language (such as  without limitation  or  but not limited to  or words of similar import) is used with reference thereto, but rather shall be deemed to refer to all other items or matters that fall within the broadest possible scope of such general statement, term or matter. 
              d. 
    Time.   Time is of the essence in the performance of the obligations stated in this Agreement. 
              e. 
    Survival of Covenants.   The covenants, representations, and warranties in this Agreement shall survive the execution of the Agreement. 
              f. 
    Entire Agreement.   This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof superseding all other discussions, promises, representations, warranties, agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, relating to the Agreement. 
              g. 
    Amendment and Waiver.   No change or amendment shall be valid unless it is made in writing and executed by the Parties to this Agreement. No specific waiver of any of the terms of this Agreement shall be considered as a general waiver. 
     [Signature pages to follow] 
    
    30 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written. 
                 FANNIE MAE, 
  a corporation organized under the laws of the United States 
        
      By: 
    /s/ Zach Oppenheimer 
      Type Name: Zach Oppenheimer 
      Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Acquisition Officer 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., 
  a national banking association 
        
      By: 
      
      Type Name: Ron Sturzenegger 
      Title: Legacy Asset Servicing Executive 

COUNTRYWIDE HOME LOANS, INC. 
  a New York corporation 
        
      By: 
      
      Type Name: Michael Schloessmann 
      Title: President and CEO 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written. 
                 FANNIE MAE, 
  a corporation organized under the laws of the United States 
        
      By: 
      
      Type Name: Zach Oppenheimer 
      Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Acquisition Officer 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., 
  a national banking association 
        
      By: 
    /s/ Ron Sturzenegger 
      Type Name: Ron Sturzenegger 
      Title: Legacy Asset Servicing Executive 

COUNTRYWIDE HOME LOANS, INC. 
  a New York corporation 
        
      By: 
      
      Type Name: Michael Schloessmann 
      Title: President and CEO 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,   the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written. 
                 FANNIE MAE, 
  a corporation organized under the laws of the United States 
        
      By: 
      
      Type Name: Zach Oppenheimer 
      Title: Senior Vice President and Chief Acquisition Officer 

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., 
  a national banking association 
        
      By: 
      
      Type Name: Ron Sturzenegger 
      Title: Legacy Asset Servicing Executive 

COUNTRYWIDE HOME LOANS, INC. 
  a New York corporation 
        
      By: 
    /s/ Michael Schloessmann 
      Type Name: Michael Schloessmann 
      Title: President and CEO 

</EX-99.A>

<EX-99.B>
 16
 bac-12312012x10kex99b.htm
 EXHIBIT

BAC-12.31.2012-10K EX. 99 (b) 

Exhibit 99(b) 
  SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT 
  This Settlement Agreement (the  Agreement ) is dated as of December 31, 2010 (the  Closing Date ), by and between (i) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ), (ii) Bank of America, National Association ( BANA ), (iii) BAC Home Loans Servicing, L.P. ( Servicing LP ), and (iv) Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., ( Countrywide ) (the foregoing are hereinafter referred to individually as a  Party , and collectively as the  Parties ). 
  RECITALS 
  WHEREAS, Countrywide and its affiliate Countrywide Bank, FSB ( CWB ) were approved Freddie Mac Single-Family Seller/Servicers that sold Mortgages (as defined herein) to Freddie Mac pursuant to certain Master Agreements and Master Commitments entered into with Freddie Mac; 
  WHEREAS Countrywide Home Loan Servicing LP ( CHLS, LP ), formerly an Affiliate of CWB, was the servicer or servicing agent for some or all of the Mortgages; 
  WHEREAS, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 11, 2008, between Countrywide Financial Corporation (the ultimate parent of Countrywide and CWB), Bank of America Corporation ( BAC ) (the ultimate parent of BANA), and Red Oak Merger Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of BAC), Countrywide Financial Corporation was merged into Red Oak Merger Corporation. Subsequent changes were made in organizational structure, such that CWB was merged into BANA, and CHLS, LP became an indirect subsidiary of BANA and was renamed BAC Home Loan Servicing, L.P.; 
  WHEREAS, BANA, Servicing LP and Countrywide (individually, a  BofA Seller/Servicer and collectively the  BofA Seller/Servicers ) are each servicing certain of the Mortgages for Freddie Mac as identified in the electronic file that was attached to the emails attached as Exhibits A-1 and A-2 hereto (the  Electronic File  
    1    

WHEREAS, the BofA Seller/Servicers are subject to Freddie Mac's Single-Family Seller/Servicer Guide (the  Guide ), and certain other agreements setting forth mortgage purchase and servicing obligations between Freddie Mac and one of more of the BofA Seller/Servicers (as applicable), including, but not limited to, Master Agreements and any Master Commitments thereunder, and other Purchase Documents (as defined in the Guide), which modify the Guide in certain stated respects; 
  WHEREAS, differences have arisen between the BofA Seller/Servicers and Freddie Mac with respect to the obligations of the BofA Seller/Servicers and Freddie Mac has raised certain claims concerning the origination, sale, delivery or eligibility of Mortgages (as defined below) to Freddie Mac; 
  WHEREAS, the BofA Seller/Servicers seek to settle and finally resolve the subject differences with Freddie Mac and have therefore offered to pay or cause to be paid to Freddie Mac the Settlement Amount as described in Section 2 below, in consideration for the agreement by Freddie Mac to release the Released Parties (as defined below) from the Released Obligations and Claims (as defined below) and the additional stated obligations of Freddie Mac pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, notwithstanding that the BofA Seller/Servicers regard the Settlement Amount as reflecting a premium over and above any existing and future obligations they each may have to Freddie Mac (but recognizing that the BofA Seller/Servicers are each receiving fair and adequate consideration hereunder when other factors are taken into account, including, but not limited to (i) potential litigation risks and costs, and (ii) the administrative costs and resources that would be involved in addressing certain repurchase issues with Freddie Mac on a loan-by-loan basis); and 
  WHEREAS, Freddie Mac is willing to accept the Settlement Amount in satisfaction of such Released Obligations and Claims, pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and undertakings set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and subject to the conditions set forth herein, the Parties hereto agree as follows: 
    2    

1  .        Incorporation of Recitals; Definitions  . All of the foregoing Recitals are hereby incorporated herein. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
     Affiliate    means, with respect to any of the BofA Seller/Servicers, another person or entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with such BofA Seller/Servicer, including without limitation BAC, Servicing LP, BANA and Countrywide. 
     BofA Seller/Servicers    has the meaning set forth in the fourth WHEREAS clause above, except that: (1) to the extent that any BofA Seller/Servicer's obligations or covenants under this Agreement arise out of or relate to its role as a servicer of Mortgages subject to this Agreement, it is signing this Agreement solely in its capacity as servicer for those Mortgages designated to that entity in the Electronic File; and (2) nothing in the Agreement shall be construed as creating any guaranty or other obligation between or among the BofA Seller/Servicers. 
     Control    means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a person or other entity, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.    Controlling    and    Controlled    have meanings correlative thereto. 
     Covered Mortgage    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(e) below. 
     Guide    has the meaning set forth in the fifth  Whereas  clause in the Recitals. 
     Mortgage    means each single-family mortgage loan identified in the Electronic File that was e-mailed from Das Debabrata at Freddie Mac to Pavel Maryska at CHL on December 29, 2010 (a copy of that e-mail is attached as Exhibit A-1); a copy of the responding e-mail from Pavel Maryska at CHL to Das Debabrata at Freddie Mac on December 29, 2010 confirming the Mortgages listed in the Electronic File represent the entire population of Mortgages is attached as Exhibit A-2. The specific Mortgages that each BofA Seller/Servicer  
    3    

is responsible for servicing are separately identified in the Electronic File. The Electronic File contains four columns, which are (i) the Freddie Mac Midas loan number, (ii) the applicable BAC Seller/Servicer loan number, (iii) the Servicer number and (iv) the Servicer number of the Party that is responsible for the representations and warranties with respect to the Mortgage. The Freddie Mac Midas loan number listed in the Electronic File will be the determinative identifier in the event there is any conflict between the four columns for a particular Mortgage. The responsible servicers are identified by the following numbers: 125949   154972 for BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP, 150847 for Bank of America, NA, 204305 for Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., 337105 for JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA, and 589505 for Bank United, FSB. 
     Purchase Documents    has the meaning set forth in the Guide, provided that this Agreement shall not constitute a Purchase Document. 
     Released Obligations and Claims    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) below. 
     Releasing Party    and    Releasing Parties    have the meanings set forth in Section 3(b) below. 
     Servicing Obligations    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b) below. 
     Settlement Amount    has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) below. 
  All other capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined elsewhere in the Agreement shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Guide. 
    4    

2.        Settlement Amount 
  (a)  Simultaneously with the execution of this Agreement by all Parties, and in no event later than 3:00 p.m. (Eastern standard time) on December 31, 2010, Servicing LP shall complete a wire transfer to Freddie Mac of the Settlement Amount, pursuant to the wire transfer instructions attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated by reference herein. 
  (b)  The    Settlement Amount    means One Billion, Two Hundred Eighty Million Dollars ($1,280,000,000). 
  (c)  Freddie Mac's obligations and duties under this Agreement and the release of obligations in Section 3 are expressly contingent upon the timely receipt of the Settlement Amount pursuant to Section 2(a) above. 
  3  .        Release and Related Covenants 
           (a) 
    Released Obligations and Claims  . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the applicable Purchase Documents or any other agreement, and notwithstanding any breach of any section of this Agreement (subject to Section 2(c) hereof) or any other agreement, the Releasing Parties hereby irrevocably and unconditionally expressly release, waive and forever discharge any and all claims, counterclaims, defenses, rights of setoff, debt, liens, Losses, demands, damages, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs actually incurred) and causes of action of any kind or nature whatsoever, as to or against the Released Parties and each of them, arising out of, or in connection with, the origination, sale, delivery or eligibility of Covered Mortgages for sale to Freddie Mac for sale, securitization or guaranty to, by or through Freddie Mac, and/or the delivery of Covered Mortgages or related data to Freddie Mac or the related Document Custodian in connection with any sale of the Covered Mortgage, whether asserted, unasserted, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, in contract or tort, unsecured, secured, priority, administrative or otherwise, that the Releasing Parties or their successors or assigns may now or may hereafter have against any Released Party, under any provision of the Guide (as it existed at the applicable point in time, and as it exists at the Closing Date) or any Purchase Documents  
       5    

or the laws, regulations or administrative or executive directives of the United States or any other jurisdiction, including but not limited to, any repurchase or indemnification obligation or other remedy contained in any of the Purchase Documents with respect to a breach of the terms thereof or any representation, warranty, covenant, condition or requirement made or contained therein (irrespective of how characterized), or     from any mortgage insurance policy being rescinded, denied or otherwise not available on, prior to or anytime after the Closing Date (the foregoing collectively referred to as the    Released Obligations and Claims   ). 
           (b) 
       Releasing Parties    means Freddie Mac, and any and each of its divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors, successors and assigns and each of their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, attorneys and administrators, and each is individually referred to as a    Releasing Party  .  
              (c) 
       Released Parties    means, Servicing LP, BANA, Countrywide, and any and all of their current, former or future direct or indirect parents, subsidiaries, Affiliates, partners, predecessors, successors and assigns, including any transferee of servicing rights for the Mortgages, and each of their respective past, present and future officers, directors, employees, agents, independent contractors, representatives, accountants, attorneys, boards, and their predecessors, successors and assigns, or any of them, and each is individually referred to as a    Released Party;    provided, however, that Released Parties do not include any Document Custodian (including but not limited to Recon Trust), that currently holds, or previously held, any of the Mortgage notes pursuant to a Custodial Agreement (Freddie Mac Form 1035), and any amendments thereto executed by and among Freddie Mac, the Document Custodian and one or more of the BofA Seller/Servicers. 
              (d) 
       Losses    shall mean any and all claims, suits, liabilities (including, but not limited to, strict liabilities), actions, proceedings, obligations, debts, damages, losses, costs, expenses, fines, penalties, assessments, demands, charges, fees, judgments, awards, disbursements and amounts paid in settlement, punitive damages, foreseeable and unforeseeable damages, incidental or consequential damages, of whatever kind or nature (including reasonable  
       6    

attorneys' fees and other costs of defense and disbursements). Notwithstanding the inclusion of  punitive damages  in the immediately preceding sentence, punitive damages will not be considered part of  Losses  under the following circumstances: (i) if any officer or employee of one or more of the BofA Seller/Servicers (or of any Affiliate thereof) commits fraud (irrespective of whether such fraud meets the definition under this Agreement of a  Collusive Scheme ), and (ii) such fraud gives rise to or results in a judgment or award (issued by a court of competent jurisdiction beyond all possibility of appeal) in an action brought by a third party against Freddie Mac, which judgment or award identifies such fraud and assesses punitive damages against Freddie Mac in connection therewith. 
           (e) 
    A    Covered Mortgage    means any Mortgage, except to the extent that such Mortgage is reasonably determined by Freddie Mac in accordance with Section 3(f) below to be any of the following: 
              (i) 
    a Mortgage secured by a residential property that is not located within any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase, as set forth in Guide Section 22.18 and the definition of a State in the Glossary to the Guide; 
              (ii) 
    a Mortgage, the original unpaid principal balance of which at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase exceeded the maximum original loan amounts set forth in Guide Section 23.3; 
              (iii) 
    a Mortgage secured by vacant land or property primarily used for agriculture, farming or commercial enterprise at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase; 
              (iv) 
    a Mortgage secured by residential properties consisting of five or more dwelling units at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase; 
       7    

(v) 
    a Mortgage with an LTV Ratio in excess of 80 percent at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase that (i) did not have mortgage insurance on the portion of the Mortgage in excess of 80 percent of the property's value (determined in accordance with the Guide)  ,   as set forth in Guide Section 27.1, (ii) was not sold with recourse, within the meaning of Section 11.10(a) of the Guide, and (iii) was not sold on a participation basis as described in Guide Section 11.4.1 (provided, however, that Freddie Mac may not require repurchase of a Mortgage under this sub-Section 3(e)(v) based solely on a determination by Freddie Mac that correction of an allegedly incorrect appraisal of the Mortgaged Premises (y) causes the Mortgage to have an LTV Ratio over 80 percent or (z) enlarges any existing excess of the Mortgage's LTV Ratio over 80 percent); 
              (vi) 
    a Mortgage that was not a valid First Lien on the Mortgaged Premises at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase; 
              (vii) 
    a Mortgage secured by a manufactured home that did not meet the property eligibility requirements set forth in Guide Section H33.2(a) at the time of Freddie Mac's purchase; 
              (viii) 
    a Mortgage secured by Mortgaged Premises in one of the states listed in Guide Section 22.18 that at the time of origination was designated as a "high-cost," "high-risk" or a similar designation under the applicable state law as referenced in Guide Section 22.18 as ineligible for purchase; 
              (ix) 
    any purchase transaction Mortgage secured by a Primary Residence and any Refinance Mortgage that, as described in Guide Section 22.33, had an annual percentage rate or total points and fees that exceed the thresholds under the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994 (HOEPA) and its implementing regulations (the "HOEPA Thresholds") and as a  
       8    

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

result would have rendered the Mortgage ineligible for purchase by Freddie Mac; in the event that Freddie Mac, in the exercise of its discretion, has a reasonable basis to determine that a Mortgage has an annual percentage rate or total points and fees that exceed the HOEPA Thresholds, but is unable to confirm such noncompliance because necessary information (such as the settlement sheet) is missing from the applicable loan file, then the related Mortgage will be presumed to have an annual percentage rate or total points and fees that exceed the HOEPA Thresholds unless the applicable BofA Seller/Servicer presents credible evidence to the contrary, as determined by Freddie Mac in its reasonable discretion. 
           (x) 
    Loan Affected By a Collusive Scheme  : A Mortgage as to which fraud was committed by a borrower or other party to the mortgage transaction in conjunction with such transaction, and as to which all of the following criteria are satisfied: (a) the Mortgage was originated as part of a scheme that involved collaboration of at least two perpetrators who need not be employed by the same entity and who participated in the origination process of each of the Mortgages that are part of the scheme or, in the case of a purchase money Mortgage, participated in either the origination process or in the purchase and sale of the Mortgaged Premises, (b) such scheme involved [*__*] or more Mortgages, and (c) the materially false representation or warranty made by the borrower or other party had an adverse and material impact on (A) the value of the Mortgage, (B) its saleabilty in the secondary mortgage market, (C) the borrower's ability to perform under the Mortgage, or (D) the collectibility of regular payments under the Mortgage. 
     For purposes of this sub-Section 3(e)(x), participation in the origination process or in the purchase and sale of the Mortgaged Premises includes, but  
    9    

is not limited to, participation as borrower, mortgage broker, real estate broker, appraiser, settlement agent, escrow holder or title insurer. 
           (xi) 
    Recourse Loan  . A Mortgage listed on Exhibit C. 
     (f)    Freddie Mac shall provide the relevant BofA Seller/Servicer with thirty (30) days notice of its determination that any Mortgage falls within any of the Covered Mortgage exceptions above and shall accompany such notice with sufficient documentation to enable that BofA Seller/Servicer to determine the validity of Freddie Mac's assertion. The BofA Seller/Servicers retain the right to appeal in good faith and in a timely manner Freddie Mac's determination that any Mortgage falls within these exceptions; any such appeal shall include a written explanation of why such determination is incorrect, plus reasonable evidence in writing supporting such explanation. Each BofA Seller/Servicer must comply with Guide Section 72.6 when making any such appeals. 
  (g)    Notwithstanding sub-Sections 3(a) - (f) above, the Released Obligations and Claims do not include any obligations of any BofA Seller/Servicer under the Guide provisions set forth in Exhibit D, to the extent set forth in Exhibit D. However, it shall not be a breach of Guide Section 27.2 (Item 7 in Exhibit D) for a BofA Seller/Servicer to receive consideration for or otherwise benefit from the placement or renewal of any mortgage insurance with a mortgage insurance company or mortgage reinsurance company that is an Affiliate of the BofA Seller/Servicer under an arrangement previously approved by Freddie Mac. In the event of a breach of any of the Guide provisions set forth in Exhibit D by a BofA Seller/Servicer, Freddie Mac shall retain all of the remedies to which it is entitled under the Guide and the other Purchase Documents (including but not limited to the right to terminate the eligibility of the BofA Seller/Servicer to sell and/or service mortgages to or for Freddie Mac) except that such a breach shall not entitle Freddie Mac to require repurchase of or indemnification with respect to any Mortgage or entitle Freddie Mac to exercise any other remedy with respect to specific Mortgages. 
    10    

(h)    Freddie Mac represents and warrants that it will act in good faith in executing any rights and obligations Freddie Mac has pursuant to this Agreement, including in its determinations regarding whether any Mortgage is subject to the above exceptions. 
  (i)    Freddie Mac acknowledges that the representations and warranties relating to the eligibility of Mortgages for sale to Freddie Mac, including but not limited to representations and warranties in volume 1 of the Guide relating to the underwriting, origination, sale, and delivery of Mortgages to Freddie Mac and/or in any other applicable Purchase Documents, are those in effect on the date each Mortgage was purchased by Freddie Mac. Any changes made by Freddie Mac to these representations and warranties (in the Guide or otherwise) subsequent to the date of sale of a particular Mortgage to Freddie Mac do not apply to such Mortgage. 
  4.        Contesting Rescissions of Mortgage Insurance  . 
  (a)        Each of the BofA Seller/Servicers, but solely to the extent that the BofA Seller/Servicer has an obligation to service a Covered Mortgage, covenants that: 
  (i)        it will service each Covered Mortgage in accordance with the terms of the Guide; 
  (ii)        it will in good faith contest on Freddie Mac's behalf any action by a private mortgage insurer which action would result in the rescission, denial or unavailability of mortgage insurance with respect to a Covered Mortgage (irrespective of whether there has been a breach by a BofA Seller/Servicer or any of its predecessors or Affiliates of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement related to such Mortgage); 
  (iii)        the level of effort undertaken by the responsible BofA Seller/Servicer in connection with the above will be no less than the efforts generally taken in the ordinary course by the BofA Seller/Servicer in contesting the rescission, denial or unavailability of mortgage insurance in connection with mortgage loans held or serviced for its own account or for any of its Affiliates;  
    11    

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(iv)        upon the request of either Freddie Mac or a private mortgage insurer, it will provide copies of the specified Mortgage files or documents to the applicable private mortgage insurer in connection with the rescission or denial of a mortgage insurance policy; and 
  (v)    it will notify Freddie Mac periodically in writing when it is unable to successfully contest the rescission, denial or unavailability of mortgage insurance in connection with one or more Covered Mortgages, and unless as may subsequently be agreed to by Freddie Mac and the responsible BofA Seller/Servicer, will not accept rescission or otherwise settle the dispute without Freddie Mac's prior written consent, which Freddie Mac will not unreasonably delay or withhold. 
  (b)        In no event shall any of the covenants set forth in this Section 4 be deemed a [*_____________________________*] of any BofA Seller/Servicer or any of its Affiliates, nor shall the [*___________________________________________________________________*] under any Purchase Document. [*_______________________________________________*.] 
  (c)        Upon the rescission of any mortgage insurance policy covering any Covered Mortgage, if any mortgage insurance premiums are refunded by the private mortgage insurer directly to a BofA Seller/Servicer upon the rescission of such policy, that BofA Seller/Servicer will promptly direct or remit such funds to Freddie Mac. Freddie Mac shall assume any and all risk that its rights, or the right of any BofA Seller/Servicer, have been prejudiced or compromised in any way by virtue of Freddie Mac's acceptance of such funds or its treatment of the remittance. 
  5  .        Servicing of Mortgages  . 
  (a)        Each BofA Seller/Servicer shall continue to service the Mortgages for which it is the Servicer in accordance with the applicable Purchase Documents following the Closing Date. In the event of an alleged breach by a BofA Seller/Servicer of its respective Servicing Obligations (as defined  
    12    

herein) with respect to any Mortgage, Freddie Mac retains such rights as it may have to pursue that BofA Seller/Servicer for such breach under the Purchase Documents. 
  (b)        This Agreement does not release any BofA Seller/Servicer or any of its Affiliates from any representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements relating to the performance of Servicing Obligations.  Servicing Obligations  means obligations and duties that arise under Volume 2 of the Guide and related provisions of the Purchase Documents, including but not limited to requirements relating to day-to-day loan administration activities, reporting and remitting, and foreclosure and loss mitigation activities. Servicing Obligations as defined herein relate to activities required to be performed in connection with the servicing of the Mortgage after the date of Freddie Mac's purchase. It is possible for a Servicing Obligation to relate to the same general subject matter as a Released Obligation and Claim, if a failure to comply with a selling obligation occurred on or before the purchase date, followed later by a failure after the purchase date to perform a required Servicing Obligation relating to the same general subject matter. A BofA Seller/Servicer may be deemed to have violated a Servicing Obligation only if the action or lack of action that Freddie Mac asserts constitutes the violation occurred after the purchase date. 
  Any rescission of a mortgage insurance policy shall be deemed to be an event taking place on the date that the applicable BofA Servicer receives notice of such rescission, and shall not be treated as an absence of mortgage insurance as of the date of Freddie Mac's purchase of the affected Mortgage. 
  Example One  : If a Mortgage failed to satisfy Guide requirements for hazard insurance as of the date of purchase of such Mortgage by Freddie Mac, the action would be treated as a failure to comply with a selling obligation and the applicable BofA Seller/Servicer would be released under this Agreement from liability for representations and warranties regarding such failure. If, however, such Mortgage was subsequently serviced by a BofA Seller/Servicer, and the BofA Seller/Servicer failed to cause insurance to be obtained in accordance with Guide servicing requirements, the failure of such Mortgage to have hazard insurance in compliance with Guide requirements would be a breach of a Servicing Obligation, from which the BofA Seller/Servicer would not be released under this Agreement.  
    13    

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

Example Two  : If a Mortgage with an LTV ratio exceeding 80 percent lacked the required credit enhancement (mortgage insurance, recourse or as a participation) on the date the Mortgage was sold to Freddie Mac, the Mortgage would not be a Covered Mortgage. 
  Example Three  : A Mortgage with an LTV ratio exceeding 80 percent was sold to Freddie Mac with the mortgage insurance required by the Guide. The private mortgage insurer rescinds the mortgage insurance policy three years after date of sale to Freddie Mac, because it determines the Mortgage is secured by a commercial property. This Mortgage would not be a Covered Mortgage. 
  Example Four  : A Mortgage with an LTV ratio exceeding 80 percent was sold to Freddie Mac with the mortgage insurance required by the Guide. The private mortgage insurer rescinds the mortgage insurance policy because the credit characteristics of the Mortgage do not comply with the standards set by the mortgage insurer. [*_______________________________________*.] 
  (c)     Although this Agreement provides for the Released Parties to be released from liability for the Released Obligations and Claims, each relevant BofA Seller/Servicer must continue to service the Mortgages for which it is the Servicer in accordance with the Purchase Documents and make all efforts as required under the Purchase Documents to mitigate losses relating to such Mortgages. If any BofA Seller/Servicer does not service the Mortgages for which it is the Servicer in accordance with the Purchase Documents, Freddie Mac may, in its sole discretion, exercise any and all of its available remedies under the Purchase Documents relative to the entity that is the servicer for such Mortgages. 
           (d)  
    (i)    Notwithstanding the provisions of the Guide regarding the unitary and indivisible nature of the servicing contract, Freddie Mac may exercise its right under Guide Chapter 73 to terminate or transfer servicing of any portion of the Mortgages as to each of which a BofA Seller/Servicer has materially failed to comply with any of the servicing requirements contained in the Purchase Documents, provided that such Mortgages are 30 days or more delinquent at the time of the written notice  
       14    

contemplated under (B) below and are at least 60 days delinquent at the date of termination or transfer, if: 
  (A)    Such failure would entitle Freddie Mac to terminate the entire servicing contract as to the BofA Seller/Servicer; 
  (B)    Freddie Mac gives the BofA Seller/Servicer written notice identifying the Affected Mortgages (as defined below) and the failure to comply with servicing requirements; 
  (C)    the BofA Seller/Servicer fails to cure such non-compliance within 60 days after the notice in (B) above; and 
  (D)    On the effective date of the transfer or termination, Freddie Mac executes and delivers to the affected BofA Seller/Servicer a release of all claims, counterclaims, defenses, rights of setoff, debt, liens, Losses, demands, damages, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs actually incurred) and causes of action of any kind or nature whatsoever, as to or against the affected BofA Seller/Servicer, arising out of, or in connection with, the servicing of the Mortgages as to which servicing has been transferred or terminated (the "Affected Mortgages"), whether asserted, unasserted, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, fixed or contingent, in contract or tort, unsecured, secured, priority, administrative or otherwise, that Freddie Mac may then or may thereafter have against the affected BofA Seller/Servicer, under any provision of the Guide or any Purchase Documents or the laws, regulations or administrative or executive directives of the United States or any other jurisdiction, including but not limited to, any repurchase or indemnification obligation or other remedy contained in any of the Purchase Documents with respect to a breach of the terms thereof or any representation, warranty, covenant, condition or requirement made or contained therein (irrespective of how characterized)  
    15    

except that the foregoing release shall not release, apply to or affect any of the following: 
  (I)    the continuing obligation of the affected BofA Seller/Servicer as set forth in the Purchase Documents to remit to Freddie Mac (or to a successor servicer, if Freddie Mac so directs) all funds received under or with respect to the Affected Mortgages (before or after the effective date of the transfer or termination), including but not limited to payments of principal and/or interest, deposits to escrows for taxes, insurance premiums, mortgage insurance premiums or other expenses, refunds of taxes or insurance premiums, foreclosure sale proceeds, and any other funds related to the Affected Mortgage that are held or received by the affected BofA Seller/Servicer in its capacity as servicer or former servicer of the Affected Mortgages; 
  (II)        the obligation of the affected BofA Seller/Servicer to pay such amounts in penalties or other liquidated damages under the Guide that are agreed upon between Freddie Mac and the affected BofA Seller/Servicer prior to any transfer or termination pursuant to Section 5(d)(i)(B);and 
  (III)        the obligation of the affected BofA Seller/Servicer to provide documents and records concerning the Affected Mortgages under Guide section 73.3. 
  (ii)    After the effective date of any transfer or termination, the affected BofA Seller/Servicer shall notify Freddie Mac of the amount of all advances made by the affected BofA Seller/Servicer in connection with the Affected Mortgages, and Freddie Mac shall reimburse such Servicer for all advances made by such Servicer in accordance with the Guide. 
    16    

(iii)    Freddie Mac may terminate or transfer servicing with respect to any such portion of the Mortgages without also terminating or transferring the servicing of: 
  (A)    other Mortgages, or 
  (B)    other mortgage loans not listed in Exhibit A that are serviced by any of the BofA Seller/Servicers or any of their Affiliates. 
  (iv)        Sub-Sections 5(d)(i)-(iv) shall not apply to a Freddie Mac termination or transfer of servicing of all (rather than a portion) of the Mortgages serviced by any BofA Seller/Servicer. 
  (v)         This Section 5 shall not affect Freddie Mac's rights and remedies with respect to any BofA Seller/Servicer's servicing of mortgage loans not listed in Exhibit A, and servicing contracts with respect to such other mortgage loans shall continue to be unitary and indivisible as provided in the Guide. 
  (e)    Each BofA Seller/Servicer shall be responsive to Freddie's identification of servicing performance concerns, including but not limited to development of specific remediation plans, approval of any necessary remediation plans by executive management responsible for servicing matters ("Servicing Management"), and regular written reporting to Servicing Management about progress in implementation of the remediation plans. This Section 5(e) shall not affect Freddie Mac's remedies for any failure by a BofA Seller/Servicer to comply with servicing requirements contained in the Purchase Documents, but the sole and exclusive remedy for any alleged breach of the obligation in this Section 5(e) shall be a claim under this Agreement. 
    17    

*Material omitted has been filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment* 

(f)    Each BofA Seller/Servicer is responsible under this Agreement only with respect to the specific Mortgages for which it is the Servicer. 
  6.         Assistance with Fraud Inquiries,   [  *______*  ]. 
  (a)     If fraud is alleged to have been committed in connection with the origination of a Covered Mortgage, the applicable BofA Seller/Servicer(s) will reasonably cooperate with and provide reasonable and prompt assistance to Freddie Mac in exercising any rights or remedies available to Freddie Mac against any applicable third party that may have aided, abetted or participated in the fraudulent activity (including, for example but not by way of limitation, any applicable broker, appraiser, title company, realtor, or other applicable person or entity) in accordance with the requirements of the Purchase Documents. 
  (b)     Upon the written request of any BofA Seller/Servicer, Freddie Mac will cooperate with and provide reasonable and prompt assistance to the BofA Seller/Servicers or any of their Affiliates in [*________________________________________________________________*] including, if requested by a BofA Seller/Servicer, issuing a [*______________________________________*]. 
  7.        Advice of Counsel  . Each Party to this Agreement has reviewed the Agreement independently and with counsel, is fully informed of the terms and effect of this Agreement, and has not relied in any way on any inducement, representation, or advice of any other Party hereto in deciding to enter into the Agreement, except as herein contained. 
  8  .      Representations and Warranties of Parties. 
  (a)    The BofA Seller/Servicers hereby represent and warrant that they have obtained approvals and authorizations required by law or by bylaw or resolution for the execution and enforceability of this Agreement. 
    18    

(b)    Freddie Mac hereby represents and warrants that: 
  (i)    It has obtained all approvals and authorization required by law or by bylaw or resolution for the execution and enforceability of this Agreement, including without limitation the final approval and authority of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA); and     
  (ii)    It has not assigned any of its interest in the Released Obligations and Claims it is relinquishing by executing this Agreement to any other person or entity. The BofA Seller/Servicers acknowledge that, except as provided above in Section 8(b)(i), Freddie Mac has provided no representations or warranty about the effect, if any, that the authority of FHFA might have on this Agreement. 
  (c)    Each of the Parties hereby represents and warrants, as of the Closing Date: 
  (i)    it is not entering into the transactions contemplated hereby with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding any of its respective current or future creditor or creditors; 
  (ii)     it has entered into this Agreement voluntarily and not as a result of coercion or duress; 
  (iii)    it has examined the Mortgages and fully understands its risks and liabilities in entering into this Agreement, and represents that no other Party has made any statement or representation to it regarding any facts relied upon in entering into this Agreement, and each of them specifically does not rely upon any statement, representation, or promise of the other Party hereto or any other person in entering into this Agreement, or in making the settlement provided for herein, except as expressly stated in this Agreement. Each Party represents that it has relied upon its own investigation and analysis of the facts and not on any statement or representation made by any other Party in choosing to enter into this Agreement; and 
    19    

(iv)    this Agreement, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery hereof by the other Parties hereto, constitutes the valid, binding and legal obligation of such Party, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights in general and by general equity principles (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). 
  9.        Unknown Claims  . Each Party acknowledges that it has been advised by its attorneys concerning, and is familiar with, California Civil Code Section 1542 and expressly waives any rights thereunder with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. California Code Section 1542 provides:  A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.  Each Party expressly waives any and all rights under any other federal or state statute or law of similar effect with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. 
  10.        Governing Law  . This Agreement is executed and delivered in the State of New York, and it is the desire and intention of the Parties that it be in all respects interpreted according to the laws of the State of New York as applied to contracts entered into and completely performed in New York. Federal statutes may specifically apply, including but not limited to, 12 USC sections 1301-1393 and 1451-1459. Each of the Parties hereto specifically and irrevocably consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, with respect to all matters concerning this Agreement and its enforcement. Each of the Parties agrees that the execution and performance of the Agreement shall have a New York situs, and accordingly consents to personal jurisdiction within the State of New York for purposes arising out of this Agreement.   EACH PARTY HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY, WAIVES (TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW) ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY DISPUTE ARISING UNDER OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AND AGREES THAT ANY SUCH DISPUTE  
    20    

SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A JUDGE SITTING WITHOUT A JURY. 
  11.        Construction of Agreement.   In the event of a dispute regarding the meaning of any language contained in this Agreement, the Parties agree that the same should be accorded a reasonable construction and should not be construed more strongly against one Party than against any other Party by any reason, including but not limited to by reason of such Party's or its counsel's role in the drafting of this Agreement. In the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the Purchase Documents or Guide, this Agreement controls. 
  12.        Modification.   The Parties shall, from time to time, execute, acknowledge and deliver such supplements to this Agreement and such further instruments as may reasonably be required for carrying out the intention of or facilitating the performance of this Agreement, including but not limited to any amendments to agreements between any BofA Seller/Servicer and Freddie Mac, which amendments any Party may deem necessary to conform those agreements to the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement may not be amended, supplemented or modified except by a written instrument duly executed by the Parties. 
  13.        No Admissions, No Precedent  . The resolution of this matter is voluntary. The parties hereto acknowledge that they expressly understand that this Agreement and the settlement it represents are entered into solely for the purpose of avoiding any possible future expenses, burdens or distractions of dispute and in no way constitute an admission by any party hereto of any fact or claim. The BofA Seller/Servicers and all of their Affiliates specifically deny liability in connection with any claims that have been made or could have been made, or which arise from, or are connected directly or indirectly with the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement and any negotiations leading thereto do not constitute an admission of any fact or claim, including but not limited to any claim of negligence, breach of contract, or any other basis for liability by any of the Parties, nor the existence of any facts upon which alleged liability could be based. This Agreement shall not be used as an admission against any Party in this or any other past, present or future claim or matter. Neither this Agreement nor any provision herein shall be considered or treated as a precedent, either for purposes of the Parties' future dealings or otherwise. 
    21    

14.        Publicity  : The Parties agree that any press release, public announcement, disclosure or other comment regarding this settlement and the claims being settled that is initiated, encouraged or facilitated by a Party shall not contain any negative or adverse characterization of the other Party, its practices or of the Mortgages, or this Agreement of the resolution. The Parties will take reasonable and good faith efforts to ensure, to the extent reasonably possible under the time frame, that the timing and general content of the initial written press release, public announcement, or talking point/Q A document (excluding securities and regulatory filings) is mutually satisfactory, including providing the non-disclosing party advance notice (including notice of at least one twenty-four hour period where feasible) and an opportunity to review the same. For purposes of this Section 14, Parties shall be deemed to include the BofA Seller/Servicers Affiliates. 
  15.        Confidentiality  . 
  (a)    The Parties shall have discretion to disclose terms contained in this Agreement, subject to Section 14 above addressing certain written materials. The Agreement itself, all Exhibits, as well as all documents, communications, drafts and other materials of any kind relating to the negotiation of this Agreement, the circumstances leading thereto, or the implementation of this Agreement by the parties, shall be and remain confidential, subject to the additional terms below. 
  (b)    Disclosure of any material that is confidential under this Agreement shall be permitted only in the following limited circumstances: 
  (i)    in an action by any Party to enforce the terms of the Agreement, to the extent reasonably required for purposes of enforcement; 
  (ii)    in response to a court order, subpoena, or other demand or request made in accordance with applicable law by a governmental or quasi- governmental body having jurisdiction over such Party (including, but not limited to, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Internal Revenue Service, and a formal or informal Congressional demand or request); 
  (iii)    as required by applicable law or regulation, including, but not limited to, Federal securities law, or as that Party may elect in its sole discretion as part of its filings with the  
    22    

Securities and Exchange Commission of Forms 8-K, 10-Q or 10-K and related disclosures to investors; 
  (iv)    to such Party's subsidiaries, affiliates, directors, officers, external or internal agents, representatives, professional advisers, attorneys, accountants, auditors, insurers, successors, assigns and employees, who have a need to know, are under a duty of non-disclosure with respect to such information, and are under a duty to implement appropriate measures to maintain the confidentiality, security and integrity of such information, and to qualified bidders or investors in connection with the sale of such Party or its assets, who have a need to know and agree to be bound by the terms of this provision; or 
  (v)    in an action by a BofA Seller/Servicer or any of its Affiliates pursuant to its covenants under Section 4 regarding the contest of rescissions of mortgage insurance, to the extent reasonably necessary to fulfill such covenants. 
  (c)    In the event that any claimant or litigant, by way of a document request, interrogatory, subpoena, or questioning at deposition or trial, requests and attempts to compel disclosure of anything protected from disclosure by this Section 15 by seeking an order from any court or governmental body to compel such disclosure, or in the event that a court, governmental official or government body requests or requires disclosure of anything protected by this Agreement, the Party from whom disclosure is sought shall give written notice to the other Parties in accordance with Section 18 as soon as reasonably practical and in no event more than five (5) days from the receipt of the papers seeking the order, and shall immediately provide copies of all notice papers, orders, requests or other documents in order to allow each party to take such protective steps as may be appropriate. 
  (d)    Material protected by this Section 15 shall be deemed to fall within the protection afforded to compromises and offers to compromise by Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence and similar provisions of state law or state rules of court. 
    23    

(e)     For purposes of this Section 15, Parties shall be deemed to include the BofA Seller/Servicer's Affiliates. 
  16.        No Waiver  . The failure of a Party to enforce, in any one or more instances, any term or condition of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of the future performance of any such or other term or condition. 
  17.        Entire Agreement  . This Agreement and the other documents referenced herein constitute the entire agreement between the Parties hereto (including the BofA Seller/Servicer's Affiliates) with respect to the subject matter contained herein. This Agreement may not be amended or modified orally. 
  18.        Notices.   All notices that are required or are permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be: (a) hand- delivered, (b) mailed by certified or registered U.S. Mail, return receipt requested, first class postage prepaid, or (c) telecopied to the Parties as follows: 
   McLean, VA 22102 
  Attention: Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer Telecopier: 571-382-3723 
           with a copy to: 
    Legal Division 
     Freddie Mac 
  8200 Jones Branch Drive 
  McLean, VA 22102 
  Attention: Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Mortgage Law 
  Telecopier: 703-903-2559 
           with a copy to: 
    Freddie Mac 
     8200 Jones Branch Drive 
  McLean, VA 22102 
  Attention: Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
  Telecopier: 703-903-2623 
    24    

if the BofA Seller/: 
    c/o Bank of America Corporation 
      Charlotte, NC 28255-0001 
  Attention: General Counsel 
  Telecopier: 704-409-0968 
           with a copy to: 
    Bank of America Corporation 
     Home Loans   Insurance Division 
  4500 Park Granada 
  Calabasas, CA 91302 
  Attention: General Counsel 
  Telecopier: 213-345-9301 
  or to such other address or telecopier number as any Party shall designate by written notice to the other Parties in the manner provided herein. 
  19.        Counterparts; Effective Date.   This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall be deemed signed and effective on the date that all of the Parties exchange facsimile copies of the executed signature pages, which shall be supplemented by original signatures within seven (7) calendar days after such date. 
  20.        Other Lawsuits and Claims.   By execution hereof, this Agreement does not compromise or release any claim of the BofA Seller/Servicers or any of the Released Parties against any third party, including but not limited to any insurer, or any Correspondent, for any cost or expense hereunder, including attorneys' fees and costs. 
  21.        Successors; No Third Party Beneficiaries. 
  (a)  All terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Parties. 
    25    

(b)  With respect to Freddie Mac,  successors and assigns  shall include any governmental, quasi-governmental or private entity that may be created and that assumes any or all of the rights and obligations under this Agreement or under the Purchase Documents with respect to the Mortgages. 
  (c)  Except as specifically provided within the Agreement, nothing expressed or referred to in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person or entity other than the Parties and the Released Parties, their respective successors and assigns, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or with respect to this Agreement, or any provisions contained herein, it being the intention of the Parties hereto that this Agreement, the obligations and statements of responsibilities hereunder, and all other conditions and provisions hereof are for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Parties and the Released Parties, their respective successors and assigns, and for the benefit of no other person or entity including without limitation mortgage insurers, title insurers or Correspondents. 
  22.        Captions.   The captions assigned to provisions of this Agreement are for convenience only and shall be disregarded in construing this Agreement. 
  23.        Severability  . Excepting the provisions regarding Settlement Amount and the Released Obligations and Claims at Sections 2 and 3(a) of this Agreement, if any other provision of this Agreement, or any portion of any provision of this Agreement, shall be declared illegal, invalid, null and void or unenforceable by any court or tribunal having jurisdiction thereof, such portion or provision hereof shall be deemed separate and apart from the remainder of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. 
    26    

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written. 
    
  FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION 

By:   /s/Raymond G. Romano 

Name: Raymond G. Romano 
  Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer 

BANK OF AMERICA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION 

By:   /s/Neil A. Cotty 

Name: Neil A. Cotty 
  Title: Chief Accounting Officer 

BAC HOME LOANS SERVICING, LP, a Texas limited partnership 
    
  By: BAC GP, LLC, its general partner 
    
  By: Bank of America, National Association, 
  its manager 

By:   /s/Neil A. Cotty 

Name: Neil A. Cotty 
  Title: Chief Accounting Officer 
    
  COUNTRYWIDE HOME LOANS, INC. 

By:   /s/Michael W. Schloessmann 

Name: Michael W. Schloessmann 
  Title: President 

Signature page to Settlement Agreement 

EXHIBIT A-1 
    28    

EXHIBIT A-2 
    29    

EXHIBIT B 
  Freddie Mac's wire transfer instructions are as follows: 
    
  ABA # 021033205 
  Beneficiary Name: FHLMC Wash 
    
    30    

EXHIBIT C 
    
  RECOURSE LOANS 
    31    

EXHIBIT D 
    
  Non Loan Level Selling Warranties 
           1. 
    Consent to Electronic Transactions  . Section 1.3 
     The Seller/Servicer represents and warrants that the Seller/Servicer has confirmed that the Seller/Servicer's computer hardware, software and ISP (or other method of connectivity to the Internet), if applicable, is compatible with Freddie Mac's computer hardware, software and ISP (or other method of connectivity to the Internet) and that the Seller/Servicer is able to readily print, store and retrieve any Record or Electronic Record transmitted by Freddie Mac to the Seller/Servicer and the Seller/Servicer is capable of transmitting or submitting any Record or Electronic Records to Freddie Mac in connection with any electronic transaction between the Seller/Servicer and Freddie Mac. 
  2.        Eligibility Criteria  . Section 4.2 
  An institution must be approved by Freddie Mac as a Seller/Servicer before it can sell Mortgages to or service Mortgages for Freddie Mac. 
  The Seller/Servicer warrants that at all times it shall: 
     Be a viable organization and, as applicable, able effectively to: 
           Originate or otherwise acquire Mortgages acceptable for sale to Freddie Mac and/or 
           Service Mortgages in a manner acceptable to Freddie Mac 
           3. 
    Fidelity Insurance Coverage  . Section 4.7 (a) 
     Fidelity insurance coverage may be documented on a bond form acceptable to Freddie Mac or on the standard bond form currently mandated by or acceptable to the government agency that has regulatory or supervisory authority over the Seller/Servicer. If the Seller/ 
    32    

Servicer is not regulated or supervised, Freddie Mac will accept coverage documented on the bond form commonly issued to institutions similar to the Seller/Servicer. The coverage may be provided in policy forms with names that include, but are not limited to, Fidelity Bond, Mortgage Bankers Bond, Financial Institution Bond, Financial Institution Crime Policy or Bankers Blanket Bond. Whichever policy form is relied upon to document the coverage required by Freddie Mac, the Seller/Servicer warrants that the terms of such coverage meet all of the requirements in Section 4.7(b). 
           4. 
    Mortgagee's E O Insurance Coverage  . Section 4.8 
     Mortgagee's E O insurance coverage must be documented on policy forms commonly issued to institutions similar to the Seller/Servicer. The coverage may be provided in policy forms with names that include, but are not limited to, Mortgage Bankers Bond, Mortgage Errors   Omissions, Mortgage Impairment, Mortgage Holders Liability, Professional Liability or Mortgage Protection. Whichever policy form is relied upon to document the coverage required by Freddie Mac, the Seller/Servicer warrants that the terms of such coverage meet all of the requirements in Section 4.8(b). 
           5. 
    Certificate of Incumbency requirements  . Section 16.10.1 (second paragraph) 
     By executing Form 988SF or Form 989SF, the Seller/Servicer represents and warrants that Freddie Mac may rely conclusively on the accuracy, genuineness and good faith of any (i) Record submitted to Freddie Mac bearing an original signature of any one of the "Authorized Persons" on Form 988SF or Form 989SF, as applicable, or (ii) when permitted, facsimile transmission of a Record submitted to Freddie Mac bearing a copy of an original signature of any one of the "Authorized Persons" on Form 988SF or Form 989SF, as applicable, that contains or communicates instructions (or modifies previous instructions) to transfer funds or securities by wire transfer, ACH or other payment system approved by Freddie Mac. The Seller/Servicer is responsible for any and all penalties, losses, liabilities and claims that result from Freddie Mac's reliance on any instruction provided to Freddie Mac by the Seller/Servicer's authorized  
    33    

representatives or any other person who has (or obtains) access to information or documents that compromise the security of Freddie Mac's wire transfer operations. 
           6. 
    Seller authorized to sell Mortgage; Purchase Documents authorized  . Section 22.27 
     Each Seller that is an "insured depository institution," as that term is defined in Section 1813(c)(2) of Title 12 of the United States Code, as amended, acknowledges, agrees, covenants, represents and warrants to Freddie Mac that the Seller's Master Agreements and other applicable Purchase Documents entered into by and between the Seller and Freddie Mac: 
             
    Are in writing or are "records" or "electronic records" as those terms are defined in Section 1.3(a) of the Guide), 
                
    Were executed or authenticated by the Seller and Freddie Mac contemporaneously with the agreement reached by the Seller and Freddie Mac for sale of Mortgages by the Seller to Freddie Mac in return for cash and/or PCs received by the Seller, 
                
    Were approved by the Seller's board of directors or the Seller's officers or employees who were duly authorized by the board of directors to enter into such agreements and board approvals, resolutions and/or delegations of authority are reflected in the minutes of the board, and 
                
    Have been, continuously, from the time of their execution or authentication, official records of the Seller. 
              7. 
    Commissions, fees or other compensation on insurance  . Section 27.2 
     The Seller warrants that in connection with the placement or renewal of any mortgage insurance, including insurance on any other Mortgages it owns, to the Seller's knowledge, the insurer (including its parent company or any affiliate thereof) has not caused or permitted any consideration or thing of value (other than the protection provided by its mortgage insurance) to be paid to or received by any of the following: 
    34    

The Mortgage lender 
             
    Any officer, director or employee of the lender or any member of their immediate families 
                
    Any insurance agency, corporation (other than the insurer), partnership, trust or other business entity (including any service corporation, whether organized for profit or otherwise) in which the lender or any of its officers, directors, employees or their immediate family members have financial interest, or 
                
    Any designee, trustee, nominee or other agent or representative of any of the foregoing 
     This requirement applies to any commission, fee or other compensation on all mortgage insurance presently in force or to be placed in the future. 
   User represents and warrants that  .. (d) User has the legal right to obtain credit reports with respect to Borrowers whose mortgage loans or Loan Applications are assessed by the System. 
   The Seller/Servicer warrants that any FZD made on or after June 1, 1995 by a party other than the Seller/Servicer is guaranteed by the FZD maker to be accurate, in accordance with federal law. The Seller/Servicer, however, remains responsible to Freddie Mac for the accuracy of any FZD made by the Seller/Servicer or any party other than the Seller/Servicer. 
    
    35    

</EX-99.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 bac-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 bac-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 bac-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 bac-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 bac-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 22
 bac-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

