<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_1390777_0001193125-09-041050_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5257101</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>828587</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>126824</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3554842</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>191</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>28</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-041050.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227163504
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-041050
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		44
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Bank of New York Mellon CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001390777
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-52710
		FILM NUMBER:		09643534

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-495-1784

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 T7MFiJqaINaze+RBR8W9o7tTlemh6xen0kfw7nBke3n3OIMJz47KT4kOpBassmpt
 9AwbciCJJ5onhZJq3P6feA==

 0001193125-09-041050.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

       UNITED STATES      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549               FORM 10-K       [     ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the      Securities Exchange Act of 1934       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008       or      [      ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the      Securities Exchange Act of 1934      Commission
File No. 000-52710       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)       

Delaware  

13-2614959   
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   
    One Wall Street      New York, New York 10286      (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)      Registrant s telephone number, including area code - (212) 495-1784      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class   

Name of each exchange on which registered    
 
  Common Stock, $0.01 par value  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6.875% Preferred Trust Securities, Series E  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
  5.95% Preferred Trust Securities, Series F  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
        Preferred Capital Securities of Mellon Capital IV,         fully and unconditionally guaranteed by   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      None      (Title of Class)      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities      Act.  [     ] Yes    [    ] No      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the      Act.  [    ] Yes  [     ] No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.        [     ]  Yes [    ] No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:

Large accelerated filer  [     ]  
     
  Accelerated filer  [    ]  
     
  Non-accelerated filer  [    ]  
     
  Smaller reporting company  [    ]   

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  [    ] Yes [     ] No      As of June 30, 2008, 1,138,943,237 shares, of the
total outstanding shares of 1,146,070,295, of the registrant s outstanding voting common stock, $0.01 par value per share, having a market value of $43,086,222,656, were held by nonaffiliates.      As of January 31, 2009, 1,148,987,937 shares of the registrant s voting common stock, $0.01 par value per share, were outstanding.      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE      Portions of the
following documents are incorporated by reference in the following parts of this Annual Report:      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
2009 Proxy Statement-Part III      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders-Parts I, II, III and IV

Table of Contents  

Available Information       This Form 10-K filed by The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) contains the Exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 38, including those portions of the Company s
2008 Annual Report to Shareholders (the  Annual Report ), which are incorporated by reference herein. For a free copy of the Company s Annual Report or the Proxy Statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting (the  Proxy ), as filed
with the SEC, send a written request by email to  corpsecretary@bnymellon.com  or by mail to the Secretary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286. The Company s Annual Report is, and the Proxy upon
filing with the SEC will be, available on our Internet site at www.bnymellon.com. We also make available, free of charge, on our Internet site the Company s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The following materials are also available, free of charge, on our Internet site at
www.bnymellon.com under  Investor Relations, Corporate Governance  and are also available free of charge in print by written request from the Secretary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation at One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286, or
 corpsecretary@bnymellon.com :       

the Company s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees, including the Company s senior financial officers;          

the Company s Corporate Governance Guidelines; and          

the Charters of Audit and Examining, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Human Resources and Compensation, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors.
        The contents of the Company s Internet site are not part of this Form 10-K.       Forward-looking Statements       This Form 10-K contains statements
relating to future results of the Company that are considered  forward-looking statements.  These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use   
   
 of future or present tense language, and relate to, among other things: all statements about the future results of the Company, projected business growth,
statements with respect to the merger of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation with and into the Company, the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory and investigatory proceedings, and the Company s plans,
objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to: the U.S. Treasury s Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Mutual Funds, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and the Federal Reserve s Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility Program; the Community Reinvestment Act; the effect of current financial markets on
competition; the implementation and impact of Basel II; impact of judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal actions or regulatory matters; the impact of non-prosecution and settlement agreements with governmental
authorities, the adequacy of tax reserves; and defenses to the allegations raised in the claim raised by The Federal Customs Service of the Russian Federation and defenses to attempted enforcement of a related judgment. These forward-looking
statements, and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of the Company (including those incorporated in this Form 10-K) are based on assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based
on various important factors (some of which are beyond the Company s control), including those factors described in Item 1A. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties,
including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process.      All forward-looking statements speak only as of
the date on which such statements are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
     In this Form 10-K, references to  our,   we,   us,  the  Company,  and similar terms for periods on or after
July 1, 2007, refer to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and prior to July 1, 2007, refer to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.   

Table of Contents  

      THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        FORM 10-K INDEX            

PART I        

Item 1.  
        
   Business   
      
  3  

Item 1A.  
        
   Risk factors   
      
  15  

Item 1B.  
        
   Unresolved staff comments   
      
  26  

Item 2.  
        
   Properties   
      
  26  

Item 3.  
        
   Legal proceedings   
      
  27  

Item 4.  
        
   Submission of matters to a vote of security holders   
      
  29  

PART II        

Item 5.  
        
     Market for the registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities

30  

Item 6.  
        
   Selected financial data   
      
  30  

Item 7.  
        
     Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations    
      
  30  

Item 7A.  
        
   Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk   
      
  30  

Item 8.  
        
   Financial statements and supplementary data   
      
  30  

Item 9.  
        
     Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure    
      
  30  

Item 9A.  
        
   Controls and procedures   
      
  30  

Item 9B.  
        
  Other information  
      
  Not applicable  

PART III        

Item 10.  
        
   Directors, executive officers and corporate governance   
      
  32  

Item 11.  
        
   Executive compensation   
      
  34  

Item 12.  
        
     Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters    
      
  35  

Item 13.  
        
   Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence   
      
  35  

Item 14.  
        
   Principal accounting fees and services   
      
  35  

PART IV        

Item 15.  
        
   Exhibits and financial statement schedules    
      
  36  

Signatures   
      
  37  

Index to exhibits   
      
  38  

2 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART I                       ITEM 1. BUSINESS
        Description of Business        On July 1, 2007, The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ), with The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation being the surviving entity.
The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial by The Bank of New York Company, Inc. for accounting and financial reporting purposes. For additional information on the merger, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in the Company s 2008 Annual Report ( Annual Report ), which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK) is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with approximately $928 billion in assets under management and $20.2 trillion in assets under custody and administration. For a further
discussion of the Company s products and services, see the  Overview  and  Business segments review  sections in the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of the Company s Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  ( MD A ) section in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference. See  Available Information  on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access
financial and other information regarding the Company, which is incorporated herein by reference.      We were originally formed as a holding company for The
Bank of New York Mellon, which has its executive offices in New York. With its predecessors, the Company has been in business since 1784.      On July 1,
2008, we completed the process of consolidating and renaming our principal U.S. bank and trust company subsidiaries into two principal banks. This consolidation effort was an essential part of our overall merger and integration process.   
  The two principal banks resulting from the consolidation of the entities, which mainly were U.S. banks and trust companies, are:         

The Bank of New York Mellon (the  Bank ), a New York state chartered bank, formerly named  The Bank of New York , which houses our institutional
businesses including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.          

BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named  Mellon Bank, N.A. , which houses our Wealth
Management business. Currently, this bank contains only the legacy Mellon Financial wealth management business. The wealth management business of the legacy The Bank of New York Company is expected to be added to BNY Mellon, N.A. in 2009.
        As part of the consolidation, the number of our U.S. trust companies was reduced to two   The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. These companies house trust products and services across the U.S. Also concentrating on trust products and services is BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank. Most asset
management businesses, along with Pershing, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of the Company.      Our bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody
activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) to the extent provided by
law.      We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing Services; Treasury
Services and Other. For a further discussion of the Company s products and services, see  Business segments review  in the MD A section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Information on international
operations is presented in the Annual Report in  Net interest revenue -- Average balances and interest rates ,  International operations ,  International operations -- International financial data ,  International
operations -- Cross-border risk  and  Consolidated Balance Sheet Review -- Loans by product,  which are incorporated herein by reference.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  3   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
  Principal Entities       Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K
presents a list of the Company s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2008.       Discontinued Operations       As discussed in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, the Company reports results using the discontinued operations method of
accounting. Note 4 is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.        Supervision and Regulation        Our Company and our bank subsidiaries are subject to an extensive system of banking laws
and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of the customers and depositors of the Company s bank subsidiaries rather than holders of the Company s securities. These laws and regulations govern such areas as levels of
capital, permissible activities, reserves, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Similarly, our subsidiaries engaged in investment advisory and other securities related activities are subject to various U.S.
federal and state laws and regulations that are intended to benefit clients of investment advisors and shareholders in mutual funds rather than holders of the Company s securities. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to
general U.S. federal laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of the states or countries in which the Company and its subsidiaries are organized or conduct businesses. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and
regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or
regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.       Regulated Entities of The Company       The Company is regulated as a bank holding company and a financial holding
company ( FHC ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by   
   
 the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the  BHC Act ). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ). In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies that are financial holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks,
performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as
determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the
financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial
companies.      Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to
qualify as  well capitalized  as described under  - Prompt Corrective Action  below.      A FHC that does not continue to meet all the
requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without FHC status or to continue
such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements. The Bank of New York Mellon, which is the Company s principal bank subsidiary, is a New York-chartered banking corporation, is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to
regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the  NYSBD ). The Company s national bank subsidiaries, including BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company National Association., are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ).      We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC registered broker-   
       
   4  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), a securities industry self-regulatory organization.      Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the  40 Act ) and, as such, are
supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative
powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the 40 Act, including
the Dreyfus/Founders family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the 40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our subsidiaries are qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the
District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification.
     Certain of the Company s United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( FSMA 2000 ). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ). In
addition to broad supervisory powers, the FSA may discipline the businesses it regulates. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of FSMA 2000
and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company
with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of the Company, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.      Certain of the Company s public finance activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are registered with the Commodity   
   
 Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.
     The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various
restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.       Dividend Restrictions       The Company is a legal entity separate and
distinct from its bank and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our
guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust-preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to
us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory approval. For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the first six paragraphs of Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which paragraphs are
incorporated herein by reference. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial
condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment
of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would deplete a depository institution s capital base to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the  FDI Act ),
an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is under-capitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have
issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  5   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 The ability of the Company s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking
organizations, as described below. In addition, the Company s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.       Transactions with Affiliates       There are certain restrictions on the
ability of the Company and certain of its non-bank affiliates to borrow from, and engage in other transactions with, its bank subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of
specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of the Company or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank s capital stock and surplus, and, as to the Company and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such
lending bank s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. In addition,
certain bank transactions with affiliates must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other
non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.       Unsafe and Unsound Practices       The federal banking agencies have
authority to prohibit the national banks they supervise from engaging in any activity which, in the appropriate agency s opinion, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting the bank s business. The Federal Reserve Board has
similar authority with respect to the Company and our non-bank subsidiaries. In addition, the NYSBD also has similar authority with respect to The Bank of New York Mellon.       Deposit Insurance       The deposits of our bank subsidiaries have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable
limits. The FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund (the  DIF ) is funded by assessments on insured depository   
   
 institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds. The FDIC may increase or decrease the
assessment rate. During 2008, the assessment rates ranged from $0.05 per $100 of domestic deposits in the lower risk category to $0.43 per $100 of domestic deposits for banks in the highest risk category. Our banks were assessed approximately $0.05
per $100 of domestic deposits for 2008. The FDIC increased the DIF assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009, with the new rates ranging from $0.12 per $100 of domestic deposits in the lower risk category to $0.50 per $100 of domestic deposits
for banks in the highest risk category. An FDIC credit available to our bank subsidiaries for prior contributions offset the entire assessment for the first quarter of 2008 and 90% of the assessment for the remaining quarters of 2008, and will
offset some of the assessment for 2009. Significant increases in the insurance assessments of our bank subsidiaries will increase our costs once the credit is fully utilized or otherwise disposed of.      See page 11 for a discussion of deposit insurance related to the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.      In addition, the Deposit Insurance Fund Act of 1996 authorizes the Financing Corporation ( FICO ) to impose assessments on DIF assessable deposits in order to
service the interest on FICO s bond obligations. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance under the FDIC s risk-related assessment rate schedule. FICO
assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annual assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $0.0110 per $100 of domestic deposits and will be $0.0114 for the first quarter of 2009.
     Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is
in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank s federal regulatory agency.       Source of Strength       Under the BHC Act and Federal Reserve Board policy, the Company is expected to act as a source
of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit capital   
       
   6  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 and financial resources to those subsidiaries. The required support may be needed at times when, absent that Federal Reserve Board policy, we may not find
ourselves able to provide it. In addition, any loans by the Company to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. The Company s U.S. non-bank subsidiaries engaged
in securities-related activities are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).       Liability of Commonly Controlled
Institutions and Related Matters       The FDI Act contains a  cross-guarantee  provision that could result in any insured depository institution
owned by the Company being assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other insured depository institution owned by the Company.      Any loans by a bank holding company to a bank subsidiary that qualify as regulatory capital of the bank subsidiary, are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and
to certain other indebtedness of the bank subsidiary. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be
assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.      In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank
is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank s shareholders,  pro rata , and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after
three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.       Regulatory Capital       The federal bank regulatory authorities have substantially similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are
intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.   
    The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to bank
holding companies are based on the 1988 Capital Accord ( Basel I ) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). As discussed further below, the federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new
risk-based capital guidelines for  core banks , including the Company, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards ( Basel II ) issued by the Basel Committee in
June 2004 and updated in November 2005.      Under the existing Basel I-based guidelines, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the components
of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted
categories. The required minimum ratio of  Total capital  (the sum of Tier I, Tier II and Tier III capital) to risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is currently
8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company s Total capital and Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 17.1% and 13.3%, respectively. Under both the
existing Basel I-based guidelines and the Basel II-based guidelines that are coming into effect, a banking organization s total capital is divided into tiers.  Tier I capital  consists of (1) common equity, (2) qualifying
noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, (3) for bank holding companies but not banks, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock, (4) minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries and
(5) for banking holding companies but not banks, a limited amount of trust- preferred securities, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Not more than 25% of qualifying Tier I capital may consist of cumulative perpetual
preferred stock, trust-preferred securities and other so-called  restricted core capital elements.  Effective March 31, 2009, not more than 15% of our qualifying Tier I capital may consist of trust-preferred securities. We expect all
of our trust-preferred securities to qualify as Tier I capital at March 31, 2009. The Series B preferred stock that we issued to the U.S. Treasury counts as Tier I capital and is not a restricted core capital element, notwithstanding that it
has a step up in dividends and bears dividends cumulatively. See  U.S. Treasury program   investment in U.S. financial institutions , below.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  7   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
    Tier II capital  consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, a limited amount of
subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier I capital, a limited amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses and a limited amount of unrealized gains on equity securities.    Tier III capital 
consists of qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. The sum of Tier II and Tier III capital may not exceed the amount of Tier I capital.      The
risk-based capital requirements identify concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from non-traditional activities, and the management of those risks, as important factors to consider in assessing an institution s overall capital
adequacy. In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking
organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the banking organizations  own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators.      The federal bank regulatory agencies adopted the Basel II capital guidelines effective April 1, 2008. The new guidelines are mandatory for  core  banks.
The Company and its depository institution subsidiaries are  core  banks. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk and the Advanced
Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for operational risk. The new guidelines provide for transitional periods during which banks subject to the new guidelines calculate their capital requirements under both the old guidelines and the new
guidelines, with the minimum capital requirements being the greater of required capital as calculated under the new guidelines and designated percentages of required capital as calculated under the old guidelines. Under the guidelines as finally
adopted, 2008 was the first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel run and 2009 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods.      In the U.S., we are currently working towards implementing the Basel II-based, A-IRB and AMA approaches required by the new guidelines within the required deadlines. Beginning Jan. 1, 2008, we implemented the Basel II
Standardized Approach in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We   
   
 maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process.      We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices and that using the advanced approaches in the U.S., given our portfolio, could result in a
reduction of risk-weighted assets notwithstanding the leverage ratio requirement.      The Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to comply with
minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a bank holding company s Tier I capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill
and certain other intangible assets. The guidelines require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board s risk-adjusted measure for
market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2008, our leverage ratio was
6.9%.      The Federal Reserve Board s capital guidelines provide that banking organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are
expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Also, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a  tangible
Tier I leverage ratio  in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier I leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization s Tier I capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding
intangibles).       Prompt Corrective Action       The FDI Act,
as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ), requires the federal banking agencies to take  prompt correction action  in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified
capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks; well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically under-capitalized. A depository institution is
deemed to be  well capitalized  if the banking institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a   
       
   8  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written
agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions,
depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.      At Dec. 31, 2008, all of our bank subsidiaries were well capitalized based on the
ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank s overall financial condition
or prospects.      The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well capitalized insured depository institution as
adequately capitalized. The FDI Act provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems
the institution to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice.      The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or
undercapitalized institution to comply with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category (but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information
other than the capital levels of the institution.       Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act       A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act
of 2001 (the  USA Patriot Act ) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the
extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as the
Company s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private   
   
 investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate
policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions
that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could
have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.       Depositor Preference       Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority
over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution by any receiver.       Asset-backed commercial paper liquidity facility program       In
September 2008, the Federal Reserve announced an Asset Backed Commercial Paper ( ABCP ) Money Market Mutual Fund ( MMMF ) Liquidity Facility program (the  ABCP Program ).      Eligible borrowers under the ABCP Program include all U.S. depository institutions, U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks and
broker-dealers. Eligible borrowers may borrow funds under the ABCP Program in order to fund the purchase of eligible ABCP from an MMMF. The MMMF must be a fund that qualifies as a money market mutual fund under Rule 2a-7 of The Investment Company
Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment Company Act ). ABCP used for collateral in the ABCP Program must be rated no lower than A1, F1 or P1, U.S. dollar denominated and from a U.S. issuer. The ABCP Program, which began on Sept. 19, 2008
was initially scheduled to run through Jan. 30, 2009. The Federal Reserve has extended this program through Oct. 30, 2009.      Borrowings under the ABCP
Program are non-recourse. Further, the ABCP pledged under the ABCP Program receives a 0% risk weight for risk-based capital purposes and is excluded from average total consolidated assets for leverage capital purposes.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  9   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 Subsidiaries of the Company purchased ABCP under the ABCP Program from MMMFs managed by the Company s subsidiaries, as well as funds managed by third
parties. At Dec. 31, 2008, we held $5.6 billion of assets and liabilities under the ABCP Program. The ABCP Program increased average assets by $2.3 billion in 2008. These assets are recorded on the balance sheet as other short-term investments
  U.S. government-backed commercial paper. The liabilities are recorded as Borrowings from Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper. In January 2009, $4.5 billion of these assets and borrowings were repaid without credit losses.
      Temporary guarantee program for money market mutual funds       In September 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department opened its Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Mutual Funds (the  Temporary Guarantee Program ). The U.S. Treasury will guarantee the share price of any publicly offered
eligible money market fund that applies for and pays a fee to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. All money market funds that are structured within the confines of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, maintain a stable share price of
$1.00, are publicly offered and are registered with the SEC are eligible to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program.      The Temporary Guarantee
Program provides coverage to shareholders for amounts that they held in participating money market funds at the close of business on Sept. 19, 2008. The guarantee will be triggered if the market value of assets held in a participating fund falls
below $0.995, the fund s sponsor chooses not to maintain the $1.00 share price, and the fund s board determines to liquidate the fund. The Temporary Guarantee Program is designed to address temporary dislocations in credit markets and
initially was scheduled to run through Dec. 18, 2008. In November 2008, the Department of the Treasury announced an extension of the Temporary Guarantee Program until April 30, 2009 to support ongoing stability in this market. Continued
protection is contingent upon funds renewing their coverage and paying any additional required fee. The Secretary of the Treasury may further extend the program until Sept. 18, 2009; however, no decision has been made to extend the program beyond
April 30, 2009.      Each Dreyfus and BNY Mellon Funds Trust money market fund has entered into a Guarantee Agreement   
   
 with the Department of the Treasury which permits these funds to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. On Dec. 12, 2008, the funds renewed their
coverage, via the extension discussed above, to ensure continued protection.       U.S. Treasury program   investment in U.S. financial institutions
      In October 2008, the U.S. government announced the Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) Capital Purchase Program ( CPP )
authorized under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ). The intention of this program is to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital, to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to
support the U.S. economy. On Oct. 14, 2008, the Company announced that it would be part of the initial group of nine institutions in which the U.S. Treasury would purchase an equity stake. Since Oct. 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury has purchased an
equity position in many institutions.      The Company agreed to issue and sell to the U.S. Treasury preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of common
stock in accordance with the terms of the CPP for an aggregate purchase price of $3 billion. As a result, on Oct. 28, 2008, we issued $3 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B ($2.779 billion), and a warrant for common
stock ($221 million), as described below, to the U.S. Treasury. The Series B preferred stock will pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of
9% per annum. Dividends will be payable quarterly in arrears on March 20, June 20, Sept. 20 and Dec. 20 of each year. The Series B preferred stock can only be redeemed within the first three years with the proceeds of at least
$750 million from one or more qualified equity offerings. After Dec. 20, 2011, the Series B preferred stock may be redeemed in whole or in part, at any time, at our option, at a price equal to 100% of the issue price plus any accrued and unpaid
dividends. Redemption of the Series B preferred stock at any time will be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ) enacted Feb. 17, 2009, the U.S. Treasury,
subject to consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency, is required to permit a TARP recipient to repay any assistance previously provided under TARP to such financial institution, without regard to whether the financial institution has
replaced such funds from any other source or to any waiting period. When such   
       
   10  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 assistance is repaid, the U.S. Treasury is required to liquidate warrants associated with such assistance at the current market price. The Series B preferred
stock qualifies as Tier I capital.      The proceeds from the Series B preferred stock have been utilized to improve the flow of funds in the financial
markets. Specifically we have:       

Purchased mortgage-backed securities and debentures issued by U.S. government-sponsored agencies to support efforts to increase the amount of money available to
lend to qualified borrowers in the residential housing market.      

Purchased debt securities of other financial institutions, which helps increase the amount of funds available to lend to consumers and businesses.

Continued to make loans to other financial institutions through the interbank lending market.         All of these efforts address the need to improve liquidity in the financial system and are consistent with our business model which is focused on institutional clients.
      FDIC temporary liquidity guarantee program       In
October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. This program:       

Guarantees certain types of senior unsecured debt issued by most U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. savings and loan holding companies and FDIC-insured depositary
institutions between Oct. 14, 2008 and the earlier of (i) June 30, 2009 and (if applicable) (ii) the date the FDIC-insured bank elects not to participate in the program   a decision that must have been made no later than Dec. 5,
2008, including promissory notes, commercial paper and any unsecured portion of secured debt. The Company did not elect to opt out of this program. Prepayment of debt not guaranteed by the FDIC and replacement with FDIC-guaranteed debt is not
permitted. The amount of debt covered by the guarantee may not exceed 125 percent of the par value of the issuing entity s senior unsecured debt, excluding debt extended to affiliates or institution-affiliated parties, outstanding as of Sept.
30, 2008, that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009 (this date may be extended). For FDIC guaranteed debt issued on or before June 30, 2009, an annualized assessment rate will be paid to the FDIC equal to 50 or 75 points multiplied
by the amount of debt with a maturity of less than one year. For      
   
 debt with a maturity of greater than one year, the annualized assessment rate is 100 basis points. For FDIC-guaranteed debt issued on or before June 30,
2009, the guarantee will terminate on the earlier of the maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012.   

Provides full FDIC deposit insurance coverage for funds held by FDIC-insured banks in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts at FDIC-insured depositary
institutions until Dec. 31, 2009. For such accounts, a 10 basis point surcharge on the depositary institution s current assessment rate will be applied to deposits not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. At
Dec. 31, 2008, $49.9 billion of deposits with us were covered by the temporary liquidity guarantee program.         The FDIC adopted the Final
Rule implementing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program on Nov. 21, 2008. Participation in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program resulted in $7 million, pre-tax, of additional expense, recorded in other expenses, in 2008 and is
expected to result in $50 million, pre-tax, of additional expense, or $0.03 per common share, in 2009, based on deposit levels at Dec. 31, 2008.      At Dec.
31, 2008, the Company was eligible to issue approximately $600 million of FDIC-guaranteed debt under this program.       Money market investor funding
facility       In October, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced the creation of the Money Market Investor Funding Facility ( MMIFF ), which will
support a private-sector initiative designed to provide liquidity to U.S. money market investors.      Under the MMIFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
will provide senior secured financing to a series of special purpose vehicles ( SPVs ) that will purchase high-quality money market instruments maturing in 90 days or less from U.S. money market funds. Eligible assets will include U.S.
dollar-denominated certificates of deposit and commercial paper issued by highly rated financial institutions and having remaining maturities of 90 days or less. Eligible investors will include U.S. money market mutual funds and over time may
include other U.S. money market investors. In January 2009, the Federal Reserve expanded the set of institutions eligible to participate in the MMIFF from U.S. money market mutual funds to also include U.S.-based securities lending cash collateral
reinvestment funds, portfolios and accounts (securities lenders) and U.S.-   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  11   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 based investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds, such as certain local government investment pools, common trust funds
and collective investment funds.      The MMIFF became operational on Nov. 24, 2008. SPVs were eligible to begin purchasing assets on Nov. 24, 2008 and will
cease purchasing assets on Oct. 30, 2009, unless the Federal Reserve Board extends the MMIFF. As of Feb. 25, 2009, none of the Company s money market funds or investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds had
offered assets for sale to these SPVs.       Privacy       The
privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including the Company, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily
marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to  opt out  of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.       Community Reinvestment Act       The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977
requires banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies. Should the Company or its bank subsidiaries fail to adequately serve these communities, potential penalties
could be imposed, including regulatory denials to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, expand into new financial activities and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.       Legislative Initiatives       Various legislative initiatives are from
time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations.       Acquisitions       Federal and state laws impose approval requirements
for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of   
   
 more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding
company. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the
combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the applicant s record under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other
acquisitions by the Company may be subject to informal approval by the Federal Reserve Board or other regulatory authorities.        Competition     
  The Company is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management business segments experience
competition from asset management firms; hedge funds; investment banking companies; bank and financial holding companies; banks, including trust banks; brokerage firms; and insurance companies. These firms/companies can be domiciled domestically or
internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Clearing and Treasury Services business segments compete with domestic and foreign banks offering institutional trust and custody products and cash management products and a wide range of technologically capable
service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer and capture services for institutional and retail customers.      Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies and banks, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the  Supervision and Regulation 
section and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.      As a result of current conditions in the
global financial markets and the economy in general, competition could intensify and consolidation of financial service companies could increase.      As part
of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive   
       
   12  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a
competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to this. See Item 1A,  Risk Factors   Competition  below, which is incorporated into this Item by reference.        Employees        At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries had
approximately 42,900 employees.        Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies        The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Industry Guide 3 (together  Guide 3 ) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual
reports on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.       

I.  
  Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders  Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the
Annual Report in  Net Interest Revenue ,  Average Balances and Interest Rates  and the  Supplemental information   rate/volume analysis  sections and in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which
portions are incorporated herein by reference.        II.    Securities Portfolio      A.    Carrying Values of Securities and      B.    Maturity Distribution of Securities      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual
Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review - Investment securities  section and in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference.      III.    Loan Portfolio      A.    Types
of Loans and      B.    Maturities and Sensitivities to Changes in Interest Rates      Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated   
    balance sheet review -- Loans  section and Note 1 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      C.    Risk Elements and      D.    Other Interest-bearing Assets      Information
required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review -- Loans, Non-performing assets and Cross-border risk  sections and Note 1 and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      IV.    Summary of Loan Loss Experience      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses  section, which is
incorporated herein by reference, and below.      When losses on specific loans are identified, management charges off the portion deemed uncollectible. The
allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses  section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.      Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the
analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report  Credit Risk  section, the  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses  section, in  Critical Accounting Estimates  in Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements under  Allowance for Loan Losses and Allowance for Lending Related Commitments  and in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
  V.    Deposits      Information required by this section
of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Average Balances and Interest Rates  and  Deposits  sections and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference.

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  13   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 VI.    Return on Equity and Assets      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Financial Summary  section, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      VII.    Short-Term Borrowings      Information required by
this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Other Borrowings  section, which is incorporated herein by reference.      VIII.    Replacement Capital Covenant      On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant
(the  RCC ) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of  200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial s 6.369% junior subordinated debentures (the  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities ) to
Mellon Capital III (the  Trust ) and the issuance by the Trust of  200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Trust s 6.369% preferred securities (the  Preferred Securities ). We refer to the Junior
Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the  Securities.  Pursuant to the merger, the Company assumed Mellon Financial s obligations under the RCC.      The Company agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered
Debt  in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:       

the Company and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless      

the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital guidelines
applicable to bank holding companies, and      

the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds
that the Company and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that,

generally described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity
credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and       

the Company will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or
certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and the Company will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has
elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.         The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is the Company s 5.50%
subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including the Company s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be
Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if the Company or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving
effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the
RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which the Company issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes
provisions under which a new series of the Company s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.      The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its
full text.   
       
   14  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)                 
    On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the  2007 RCC ) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of $500,100,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial s 6.044%
Junior Subordinated Notes (the  Junior Notes ) to Mellon Capital IV (the  2007 Trust ) and the issuance by the 2007 Trust of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or  Normal
PCS  (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the  PCS ), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate. Pursuant to the merger, the Company
assumed Mellon Financial s obligation under the 2007 RCC.      The Company agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a
specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered Debt  in the 2007 RCC, that on or before the  Stock Purchase Date , as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with
respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before a date ten years after the Stock Purchase Date, with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the PCS (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred
to as the  2007 Securities ):       

the Company and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless      

the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital guidelines
applicable to bank holding companies and      

the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that the Company and its
subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are
expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.            
    The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is the Company s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP
No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the
date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if the Company or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or
repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but
is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which the Company issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions
under which a new series of the Company s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.      The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to
its full text.         ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS       Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk
factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect
our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our
results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. See  Forward-Looking Statements.    
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  15   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
   Current difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of
operations.        Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the
U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the second half of 2008 and beginning of 2009. The volatility and disruption
in the global financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity
market values, rising unemployment, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation, have precipitated what may be a severe recession. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the
financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A
worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:

The amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so.

During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client
assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Asset and Wealth Management segments.      

Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers
allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management segment.      

Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by
investors in those commingled      
   
 funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed
mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and
exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds.   

We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA and ARRA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit
our ability to pursue business opportunities.      

The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it
requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations.      

Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the public credit and capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected
by further disruptions in the markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.      

Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market
conditions.      

We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums due to our participation in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and other EESA
programs and because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.           We may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions   .        Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent
valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of   
       
   16  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their
current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take further write-downs in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.        Competition We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our
profitability.        Many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and
financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also
face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national
and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment
counseling services.        Dependence on fee-based business We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our
fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.        Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional
interest-generating products and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment
trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.      Fees for
many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market   
   
 value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border
investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.      Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management,
global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees
we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we
do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.      Pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer
comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase
our profitability.      Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit
plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined
contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.        Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate
environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.        The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign
exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and
our foreign exchange   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  17   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.      Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist
attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could
lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.      The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of
exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue.        Our ability
to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform.        We provide
custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock
transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these
services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any
such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.      Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new
clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounts
  
    payable activities, would also adversely
affect our results of operations.        Strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks.        From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each of these poses
integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits
expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.        There can be no assurance that recently
enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system.        In October 2008, the U.S. government announced the passage of the EESA and in
February 2009 enacted the ARRA in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions.      Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, invest in financial institutions, purchase mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and
certain other financial instruments from financial institutions in an amount up to $700 billion for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under ARRA, further stabilization measures were made. There can be
no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and ARRA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and ARRA to
help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our
common stock.        The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.        Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial
services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different   
       
   18  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial
banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to
market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. In addition, our credit risk may be
exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and
adversely affect our results of operations, or that the EESA or ARRA will stabilize current market conditions.        Current levels of market volatility
are unprecedented.        The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent months, the
volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers  underlying financial strength.
Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are
particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market
moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and
global economy.      If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse
effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.         
      Any material reduction in our credit rating could increase
the cost of our funding from the capital markets.        Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating
agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services
industry generally.      In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from
time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency s judgment of its rating and the rating it
assigns us. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their
credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.      The outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and
affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating
agencies, which may adversely affect us.        Interest Rate Environment Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.
       Our net interest income and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes, changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets and changes in
customer credit quality, over which we have no control. Our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio,
and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  19   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 The current global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates, which could cause a decline in our net interest revenue. Further declines
could cause net income losses. Additional volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following effects:       

changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under  Asset/liability management  in the
Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference;      

reduced credit demand due to sustained higher interest rates;      

an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates,
including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;      

increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions;      

sustained lower interest rates, which may reduce the spread we earn on deposits;      

a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and      

decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.         A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the  Risk Management  section of the Annual Report.        Capital Adequacy We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.
       Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our Company and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet
guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement
changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If our Company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be
materially and   
   
 adversely affected. In light of recent market events, the regulatory accords on international banking institutions formulated by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision and implemented by the Federal Reserve may require us and our subsidiary banks to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, the regulatory
accords or implementing regulations. Failure by our principal subsidiary banks and broker-dealer subsidiaries to maintain their status as  well capitalized  and  well managed,  if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us
to lose our status as a financial holding company and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a wide range of financial activities,
insurance, merchant banking and real estate investment that are not permissible for other bank holding companies and are also eligible for a streamlined review process for proposed acquisitions. See  Supervision and Regulation  above and
 Capital -- Capital Framework  and  -- Capital Adequacy  in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.        Access to Capital Markets If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.        Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. While the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program has temporarily improved its
participants  access to sources of liquidity, this program expires on June 30, 2009, but may be extended. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent
liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds
markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a
negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we

20  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee
misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet
maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.        We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions.        We operate in a highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. In light of the
current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions
by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such
violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities
may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See
 Supervision and Regulation  above. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize
legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses
who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These   
   
 factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.      Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in
state legislatures and around the world. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the
regulatory system in the U.S. and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions, are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will
take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see  Supervision and Regulation  above.        Monetary and Other Governmental Policies Our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies.        The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial
market performance. Due to the current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and
international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate
consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. Various legislative
initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations. See
 Supervision and Regulation  above.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  21   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
   Operational Risk We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of
operations.        We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global
payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or
persons outside the corporation or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical
diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or
software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a
result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. See  Risk Management  in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by
reference.        Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.        Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is
based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to
controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.        Our information systems
may experience an interruption or breach in security.        We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any
failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems   
   
 could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies,
procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not
occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to
additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See  Risk Management  in the Annual
Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.        Technology We depend on our technology and intellectual
property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.        We are dependent on technology
because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology
to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new
products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.      Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened
settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and
market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.      Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. We

22  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product
development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.      We use
trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. Despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our
proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we
cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. If any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our
competitive position could be adversely affected. We may incur substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. If a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our
proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop
alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.        Acts of Terrorism Acts of terrorism
may have a negative impact on our business.        Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in
place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global
conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad,
or in financial market settlement functions. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further

adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict.        Reputational and Legal Risk Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other
well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.        Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the recent events
in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies, increasing
regulatory scrutiny of  know your customer,  anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and litigation that
arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets,
result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general, and any
related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. Such investigations also may be initiated by, and other compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the United States, utilizing legal
principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. See Item 3 of this Form 10-K.      On April 21, 2006, The
Bank of New York (now known as The Bank of New York Mellon) entered into a formal written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department, which imposed a number of reporting requirements and controls in
connection with The Bank of New York Mellon s anti-money laundering program. The agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance The Bank of New York Mellon s compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and
remains in effect until terminated by the banking regulators. Failure to comply with the agreement could result in sanctions, money penalties and reputational damage, which   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  23   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.      On Aug. 17, 2006, Mellon Bank, N.A. (now known as BNY Mellon, N.A.), entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney for the Western District of
Pennsylvania relating to an April 2001 incident in BNY Mellon, N.A. s Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Under the terms of the settlement, BNY Mellon, N.A. agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the
agreement for a three-year period. No monetary penalties or fines were imposed by the agreement although BNY Mellon, N.A. reimbursed the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. If BNY Mellon, N.A. complies with
the terms of the agreement, the U.S. Attorney will not prosecute BNY Mellon, N.A. The agreement should not impair BNY Mellon, N.A. s ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor.        Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.        From time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims
and legal action related to the subsidiary s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial
liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products. In addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income
distributions to foreign and domestic persons. In the event such withholding was to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability.        New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.        From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly
in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial   
   
 timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability
targets may not prove feasible.        We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.        Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense
and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them.        Tax Laws and Regulations Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with
respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.        The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) have taken increasingly aggressive positions against certain corporate investment programs that either reduce or defer taxes such as certain types of structured
transactions including leasing investments referred to as LILOs, in which we engaged prior to mid-1999, and SILOs, in which we engaged prior to 2004. As a result of such challenges by the IRS, in the third quarter of 2008, we accepted a settlement
offer from the IRS on these LILO/SILO transactions. There can be no assurances that the IRS will not challenge other corporate investment programs in the future. See Note 26 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report,
which note is incorporated herein by reference.      We believe we have adequate tax reserves to cover any potential tax exposures the IRS may assess.
Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or
litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business.      Going forward, we anticipate we will have fewer opportunities to participate in
lease investing, tax credit programs and similar transactions that have benefited us in the past. This may adversely impact our net interest revenue and effective tax rate. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the   
       
   24  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.        Accounting Principles Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.        From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are very difficult to
predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business. In some cases, we
could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.        Credit
Reserves We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.        We have credit
exposure to residential mortgages, Florida real estate, the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, to monoline financial guaranty insurers and to many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs
related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan
obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. In addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may
impact our charge-offs. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves,
are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger loan reserve against current earnings.        Holding Company We are a holding company,
and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our
shareholders.           
    We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries - The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon,
N.A. - and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our
obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other
subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our
subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See  Supervision
and Regulation  above and  Liquidity and Dividends  and  Capital -- Capital Framework  in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the
subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the
subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our
subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.        Limits on common
stock dividends        Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally
available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market
price of our   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  25   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 common stock. As part of the capital issuance to the Treasury referred to below, we agreed that for three years (or such prior time as the U.S. Treasury
ceases to hold the Series B securities issued by the Company) we will not pay any dividends on our common stock other than regular quarterly dividends of not more than $0.24 per share. On Oct. 28, 2008, the Company issued to the U.S. Treasury, $3
billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, which pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. The Series
B preferred shares rank senior to the Company s common stock, and may impact the Company s ability to pay dividends on the common stock.        
 ITEM 
1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS       None.         ITEM 2.
 PROPERTIES       We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs. At a number of the locations described
below, we are not currently occupying all of the space under our control. Where commercially reasonable and to the extent it is not needed for future expansion, we have leased or subleased, or seek to lease or sublease, this excess space. The
following is a description of our principal properties, as of Dec. 31, 2008:       New York City properties       We own a 49-story office building located at One Wall Street that serves as our executive headquarters. We also own our 23-story operations center building located at 101
Barclay Street, and lease the land on which that building sits under a ground lease expiring in 2080. In addition, we lease approximately 372,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 200 Park Avenue and approximately 318,000
square feet of space in an office building located at 2 Hanson Place in Brooklyn.      The New York City properties are utilized by all of our business
segments.       Pittsburgh properties       We lease under a long-term,
triple net lease the entire 54-story office building known as BNY Mellon Center located at 500 Grant Street. In addition, we own a 42-story office building located at 525 William   
   
 Penn Place and a 14-story office building located at 500 Ross Street.      The Pittsburgh properties are utilized by all of our business segments, other than the Clearing Services segment.       Boston properties       We lease approximately 382,000 square feet of space in a Boston office building located at One Boston Place, 201 Washington Street. We also lease under a triple net lease
the entire 3-story office building located at 135 Santilli Highway in Everett, Massachusetts.      The Boston properties are utilized by all of our business
segments other than Issuer Services and Clearing Services.       New Jersey properties       We lease approximately 485,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 95 Christopher Columbus Drive, Jersey City, New Jersey and approximately 260,000 square feet of space in an office building located
at Newport Office Center VII, 480 Washington Boulevard, Jersey City, New Jersey.      The New Jersey properties are primarily utilized by our Issuer Services
and Clearing Services business segments.       United Kingdom properties       We have a number of leased office locations in London (including approximately 234,000 square feet of space at The Bank of New York Mellon Centre at 160-162 Queen Victoria Street and approximately 152,000 square feet of space at The Tower
at One Canada Square at Canary Wharf), as well as other leased office locations throughout the United Kingdom, including locations in Manchester, Poole, Leeds, Brentwood, Liverpool, Swindon and Edinburgh.      The UK properties are utilized by all of our business segments.       Other properties
      We also lease (and in a few instances own) office space and other facilities at numerous other locations both within and outside of the U.S., including
properties located in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Florida, Delaware, Texas, California, Illinois, Georgia, Washington, Colorado, the mid-south region of the U.S.; Brussels,   
       
   26  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 Belgium; Dublin and Cork in Ireland; Senningerberg-Niederanven and Luxembourg City in Luxembourg; Frankfurt, Germany; Chennai and Pune in India; Singapore;
Hong Kong and Shanghai in China, and Tokyo, Japan.         ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS       In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and potential legal actions, including
actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are asserted in certain of these actions and proceedings. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement and the
imposition of penalties and/or other remedial sanctions are possible. Due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Company cannot ascertain what the eventual outcome of these matters will be; however, on the basis of
current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, we do not believe that enforceable judgments or settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal actions or regulatory matters, either individually or in the aggregate, after
giving effect to applicable reserves and insurance coverage, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Company, although they could have a material effect on net income for a given period. The
Company intends to defend itself vigorously against all of the claims asserted in these legal actions.      As previously disclosed in the Company s Form
8-K dated May 17, 2007, the Federal Customs Service of the Russian Federation is pursuing a claim against The Bank of New York, now The Bank of New York Mellon (the  Bank ), a subsidiary of the Company. The claim is based on
allegations relating to the previously disclosed Russian funds transfer matter, and alleges that the Bank violated U.S. law by failing to supervise and monitor funds transfer activities at the Bank. This  lack of action  is alleged to have
resulted in underpayment to the Russian Federation of the value added taxes that were due to be paid by the customers of the bank s clients on certain goods imported into the country. The claim seeks $22.5 billion in  direct and
indirect  losses.      The Bank has been defending itself vigorously in this matter and intends to continue to do so. The Bank believes it has meritorious
procedural and substantive defenses to the allegations in the Russian courts and   
   
 also believes it has meritorious defenses to an attempted enforcement of a judgment outside the Russian Federation in countries in which the Bank has
material assets if a judgment were to be entered in this matter by the Russian courts.      As previously disclosed in the Company s 2007 Annual Report on
Form 10-K, during 2001 and 2002, we entered into various structured transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of U.K. corporate income taxes that were credited against our U.S. corporate income tax liability.      On Sept. 30, 2008, as part of our closing agreement for the 1998-2002 federal audit cycle, the IRS designated one such transaction for litigation and we agreed to
litigate in the U.S. Tax Court.      The transaction involved payments of U.K. corporate income taxes that generated foreign tax credits over the 2001-2006
period. The IRS has indicated it intends to seek to disallow the foreign tax credits primarily on the basis the transaction lacked economic substance. We are prepared to vigorously defend our position and believe the tax benefits associated with the
transaction were consistent with IRS published guidance existing at the time the transaction was entered into and with various federal appellate court decisions. In the event the Company is unsuccessful in defending its position, the IRS has agreed
not to assess underpayment penalties on this transaction.      As previously disclosed, the Bank filed a proof of claim on Jan. 18, 2008, in the Chapter 11
bankruptcy of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ), seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at the Bank. Pursuant to a Plan of
Reorganization confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on Dec. 8, 2008, $370 million of cash has been set aside as a reserve, to be used by the Bank if its proof of claim is allowed in the bankruptcy. On March 3, 2008, the bankruptcy trustee filed an
adversary complaint against the Company seeking to disallow the Bank s claim and seeking damages against the Bank for allegedly aiding and abetting Sentinel insiders in misappropriating customer assets and improperly using them as collateral
for the loan. The Company has also learned that the Commodities Futures Trading Commission has opened an investigation that includes a review of Sentinel s relationship with the Bank.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  27   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
   
 As previously disclosed in the Company s 2007 Annual report on Form 10-K, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) is investigating
the trading activities of Pershing Trading Company LP ( Pershing ), a floor specialist, on two regional exchanges from 1999 to 2004. Because the conduct at issue is alleged to have occurred largely during the period when Pershing was owned
by Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc. ( CSFB ), the Company has made claims for indemnification against CSFB relating to this matter under the agreement relating to the acquisition of Pershing. CSFB is disputing these claims for
indemnification.      As previously disclosed in the Company s 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, in connection with the acquired JPMorgan Chase corporate
trust business, the Bank was required to file various IRS information and withholding tax returns for 2006. In preparing to do so, the Bank identified certain inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation and records transferred to the Bank
that were needed to file accurate returns. The Company and JPMorgan Chase jointly disclosed this matter to the IRS on a voluntary basis in a meeting on Sept. 7, 2007 and the Company believes it will receive additional time to remediate the issues.
The Company and JPMorgan Chase are attempting to resolve the information reporting and withholding issues presented. While there can be no assurance, the Company believes that after remediation the potential financial exposure will be immaterial,
and, in any event, the Company is indemnified by JPMorgan Chase for the 2006 tax withholding and reporting obligations associated with the acquisition.      As
previously disclosed, the Company self-disclosed to the SEC that Mellon Financial Markets LLC ( MFM ) placed orders on behalf of issuers to purchase their own Auction Rate Securities. The SEC and certain state authorities, including the
Texas Securities Board, are investigating these transactions. MFM is cooperating with the investigations.      As previously disclosed, in the course of a
routine review of customer accounts at Mellon Securities LLC ( Mellon Securities ), the Company became aware of circumstances suggesting that employees of Mellon Securities, which executes orders to purchase and sell securities on behalf
of Mellon Investor Services LLC, failed to comply with certain best execution and regulatory requirements in connection with agency cross trades. The Company is reviewing the trades and is in the process of determining the   
   
 extent of any remediation. The Company self-disclosed this matter to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and the SEC on a
voluntary basis.      As previously disclosed, in December 2004, the National Association of Securities Dealers ( NASD ) commenced an inquiry into
BNY Capital Markets, Inc. (now BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC,  BNY MCM ) concerning the participation in certain partial tender offers for publicly traded securities by a small group of former traders, which was prompted by BNY MCM s
disclosure to the NASD that it had identified certain instances in which BNY MCM tendered in excess of the firm s net long position in the underlying securities. In December 2008, BNY MCM entered into letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent
( AWC ) with FINRA, the successor to the NASD. In the AWC, BNY MCM consented, without admitting or denying, to FINRA s finding that it violated SEC Rule 14e-4 and NASD Rule 2110 (through its participation in the partial tender offers)
and NASD Conduct Rule 3010 and 2110 regarding supervisory systems. BNY MCM also consented to a censure and a $90,000 fine.      In August 2008, FINRA commenced
an inquiry into BNY MCM concerning the sale of Auction Rate Securities ( ARS ). On Sept. 16, 2008, BNY MCM signed a  Settlement Term Sheet,  with FINRA to resolve the investigation of the firm without admitting or denying
FINRA s findings that BNY MCM sold ARS using advertising or marketing materials that were not fair and balanced. BNY MCM agreed to: (1) buy back certain ARS from a class of individuals and certain entities who purchased ARS from BNY MCM
from May 31, 2006 through Feb. 28, 2008 (such ARS having a total par value of approximately $20 million); (2) make best efforts to provide liquidity to all other investors not in the relevant class but who purchased ARS from BNY MCM during
the same period; and (3) a censure and fine in the amount of $250,000.      On Dec. 19, 2008, CompSource Oklahoma filed a lawsuit in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. The action names as defendants BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. The plaintiff alleges that participants in the defendants  securities lending program, through
collective investment vehicles managed by the defendants, incurred losses relating to investments in medium term notes of Sigma Finance Inc. The plaintiff purports to bring the   
       
   28  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART   I  (continued)           
   
 lawsuit on its own behalf and as a representative of a class of participants. The plaintiff asserts claims for negligence, breach of fiduciary duty and
breach of contract. The complaint seeks unspecified damages.      On Dec. 11, 2008, Bernard L. Madoff was arrested by the FBI and sued by the SEC for engaging
in a massive  Ponzi-scheme  investment fraud through his broker dealer and investment advisory company, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC ( Madoff ). The Company has no direct exposure to the Madoff fraud. Ivy Asset
Management LLC ( Ivy ), a subsidiary that primarily manages funds-of-hedge-funds has not had any funds-of-funds investments with Madoff since 2000. Several investment managers contracted with Ivy as a sub-advisor and one pension fund
contracted with Ivy as investment manager; a portion of these funds were invested with Madoff and likely suffered losses as a result of the Madoff fraud. Ivy continues to review these matters.      Ivy acted as a consultant to the investment manager for the Beacon Associates LLC I ( Beacon Associates ) fund-of-hedge-funds, which invested with Madoff. Ivy
did not have discretion over investment decisions for Beacon Associates. On Jan. 27, 2009, the Trustees of a pension plan that invested in the Beacon Associates fund sued the fund s investment manager, its directors and officers, Ivy, the
Company, and Beacon Associates  auditors. The suit seeks unspecified damages allegedly resulting from violations of federal securities laws and common law, including fraud and breach of fiduciary duties. The Company believes that the
allegations lack merit and intends to vigorously defend against the suit.         
       ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
SECURITY HOLDERS       No matters were submitted to security holders for vote during the fourth quarter of 2008.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  29   

Table of Contents  

PART II             
      
 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       The information
required by this Item is set forth in the following portions of the Annual Report:  Capital ,  Liquidity and dividends ,  Selected quarterly data  and Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which
portions are incorporated herein by reference. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BK. BNY Capital IV 6.875% Preferred Trust Securities Series E (symbol BKPrE)
and BNY Capital V 5.95% Preferred Trust Securities Series F (symbol BKPrF) are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.         ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA       The information required by this Item is set forth in the
following portions of the Annual Report:  Financial Summary ,  Summary of financial results  and Note 1, Note 2 and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.
        ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       The information required by this Item is set forth in the following portions of the Annual Report:  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  and Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.        
 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK       The information required by this Item is set forth in the following
portions of the Annual Report:  Trading activities and risk management ,  Asset/liability management ,  Off-balance sheet arrangements , Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Derivative
financial instruments  and Note 27 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.         
       ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA       Reference is made to Item 15 on page 36 hereof for a detailed listing of the items under Financial Statements, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Exhibits, which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       None.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          Disclosure controls and procedures
      Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of the Disclosure Committee, has
responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our SEC
reports is timely recorded, processed, summarized and reported and that information required to be disclosed by the Company is accumulated and communicated to the Company s management to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure.
In addition, our ethics hotline can also be used by employees and others for the anonymous communication of concerns about financial controls or reporting matters. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure
controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
their control objectives.      As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.   
       
   30  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART II   (continued)            
     Changes in internal control over financial reporting       In the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our
internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. There have not been any changes in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter of 2008 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       Management report on internal
control over financial reporting and report of independent registered public accounting firm       See  Report of Management on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on pages 91 and 92 of the Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.         

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  31   

Table of Contents  

PART III                  
      
 ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE       The information required by this Item is included in The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation s proxy statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the  2009 Proxy Statement ) in the following sections: Election of Directors--Nominees for Election as Directors, Board Meetings and Board Committee
Information--Audit and Examining Committee and -- Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Director Nominations, and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, each of which section is incorporated herein by reference,
and in the  Executive Officers of the Registrant  section below.       CODE OF ETHICS       We have adopted a code of ethics which we refer to as our Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, including
our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) and Controller (principal accounting officer), as well as to the directors of the Company. The Code of Conduct is posted on our website
at  http://www.bnymellon.com/ethics/codeofconduct.pdf  and is also available in print, without charge, to any shareholder who requests it. Requests should be sent to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Office of the Secretary, One Wall
Street, NY, NY 10286. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to or waiver of the Code of Conduct relating to executive officers (including the officers specified above) or our directors.   
 
                EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT        The name and age of, and positions and offices held by, each executive officer of the Company as of February 27, 2009, together with the offices held by each such
person during the last five years, are listed below and on the following two pages. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. No executive officer has a family relationship to any other executive officer.   

32  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART III   (continued)                    

(1)  
  Mr. Kelly also serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Kelly served as Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since February 2006. From prior to 2003 to January 2006, Mr. Kelly was Chief Financial Officer of Wachovia Corporation and its predecessor, First Union
Corporation.         

(2)  
  Mr. Hassell also serves as the President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hassell served as President of The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since at least 2003.         

(3)  
  Mr. Elliott also serves as Senior Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Elliott served as Senior Vice Chairman of Mellon Financial Corporation and
Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2003.         

(4)  
  Mr. Monks also serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and as Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger,
Mr. Monks served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Company from at least 2003 to 2005.         

(5)  
  Mr. O Hanley also serves as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon. Prior to the merger, Mr. O Hanley served as Vice
Chairman of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2003.         

(6)  
  Mr. Lamere also serves as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon. Prior to the merger, Mr. Lamere served as Vice Chairman of
Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2003.         

(7)  
  Mr. Palermo also serves as Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon. Prior to the merger, Mr. Palermo served as Vice Chairman of
Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2003.         

(8)  
  Mr. Keaney also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Keaney served as
Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from October 2003 to May 2006.         

(9)  
  Mr. Gibbons also serves as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of BNY
Mellon, N.A. Mr. Gibbons also served as Chief Risk Officer of the Company from July 1, 2007 to July 1, 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Gibbons served as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of
New York Company, Inc. from September 2006 until June 2007. Prior to the merger, he also served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since April 2005 and as Chief Financial Officer from September 2006 until June 2007. He served
as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2003 to 2005. Mr. Gibbons also served as Chief Risk Officer of The Bank of New York Company from at least 2003 to 2006.         

(10)  
  Mr. Brueckner also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Brueckner
served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006 and as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC since at least 2003.           
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  33   

Table of Contents  

PART   I  II   (continued)                  

(11)  
  Mr. Rogan also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Rogan served as
Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since November 2005. He served as Executive Vice President from at least 2003 to 2005.         

(12)  
  Ms. Peetz also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peetz served as
Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. She served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from June 2003 to May 2006.         

(13)  
  Mr. Woetzel also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Woetzel served as
Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2003 to May 2006.         

(14)  
  Mr. Krasik also serves as General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Krasik served as General
Counsel and Secretary of Mellon Financial Corporation and General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Mellon Bank, N.A. since July 2006. He served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of Mellon Financial Corporation and Associate General
Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Mellon Bank, N.A. from at least 2003 to July 2006.         

(15)  
  Ms. Peters also serves as Executive Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peters served as an
Executive Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2003.         

(16)  
  Mr. Little also serves as Senior Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon. Prior to the merger, Mr. Little served as Senior
Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A., and as President of Mellon International Investment Corporation since at least 2003.         

(17)  
  Mr. Berntsen also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Berntsen served
as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from April 2004 to May 2006 and as President of BNY Capital Markets, Inc. from January 2003 to April 2004.

(18)  
  Mr. Certosimo will be a Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A., effective March 1, 2009. Prior to the
merger, Mr. Certosimo served as head of Broker Dealer Services and Alternative Investment Services since at least 2003. He served as Executive Vice President since at least 2003.         

(19)  
  Mr. Park also serves as Managing Director and Controller of The Bank of New York Mellon and Controller of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Park served as Managing
Director of The Bank of New York since at least 2003.                ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION       The information required by this Item is included in the
following sections of the 2009 Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, Executive Compensation, Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Board Meetings and Board Committee Information -- Compensation Committee   
   
 Interlocks and Insider Participation, and the Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, which are incorporated herein by reference. The
information incorporated herein by reference to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee Report is deemed furnished hereunder.   
       
   34  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

PART   I  II   (continued)            
   
    ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       The information required by this Item is included in the following sections of the 2009 Proxy Statement: Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Holders of 5% or More of
Outstanding Stock, Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Directors and Executive Officers, and Executive Compensation--Equity Compensation Plans Table, which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE       The information required by this Item is included in the following sections of the 2009 Proxy Statement: Corporate Governance Matters--Director Independence

and--Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy, which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES       The information required by this Item is included in the following section of the 2009 Proxy Statement: Audit Fees, Audit Related Fees, Tax Fees and All Other Fees which is incorporated herein by reference.   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  35   

Table of Contents  

PART IV           
       ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES        

(a)  
  The financial statements, schedules and exhibits required for this Form 10-K are included, attached or incorporated by reference as indicated in the following index. Page
numbers refer to pages of the Annual Report.         

(1)     Financial Statements   
      
   Page No.   

Consolidated Income Statement  
      
  93 and 94  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  
      
  95  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
      
  96  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity  
      
  97  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
      
  98 through 146  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
      
  147  

(2)      Financial Statement
Schedules    

The following is attached as a Financial Statement Schedule.          Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm          The Board of Directors and Shareholders     of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.         We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows of the Bank of New York Company, Inc. and its Subsidiaries for the period ended
December 31, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.         We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.         In our opinion,
the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated results of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and its Subsidiaries operations for the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.         /s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP         New York, New York     February 21, 2007         (3)    
 Exhibits          See (b) below.         (b)    The exhibits listed on the Index
to Exhibits on pages 38 through 60 hereof are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this Item.   

(c)     Other Financial Data   
      
   Page No.   

Selected Quarterly Data  
      
  84  

36  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

       SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation        
 
  By:        
     
            /s/ Robert P. Kelly    

Robert P. Kelly   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
        DATED: February 27, 2009    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

Signature              

Capacities                 

By:  
     
            /s/ Robert P.
Kelly                             

Director and Principal  

Robert P. Kelly  

Executive Officer  

Chairman and Chief Executive             Officer       

By:  
     
            /s/ Thomas P.
Gibbons                      

Principal Financial Officer  

Thomas P. Gibbons  

Chief Financial Officer  

By:  
     
            /s/ John A.
Park                      

Principal Accounting Officer  

John A. Park  

Controller       

Ruth E. Bruch; Nicholas M. Donofrio;     Gerald
L. Hassell; Edmund F. Kelly;     Richard J. Kogan; Michael J. Kowalski;     John A. Luke, Jr.; Robert Mehrabian;     Mark A. Nordenberg; Catherine A. Rein;     William C. Richardson; Samuel C. Scott III;     John P. Surma; and Wesley W. von Schack               

Directors  

By:  
     
            /s/ Carl
Krasik                                   

DATED: February 27, 2009  

Carl Krasik  

Attorney-in-fact  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  
 37

Table of Contents  

      INDEX TO EXHIBITS               Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and
warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or
such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in the Company s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such
agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the Company s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and
should not be relied upon.           

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of
Filing            

2.1  
      
  Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated as of February 23, 2007, and as further amended and restated as of March 30, 2007,
between The Bank of New York Company, Inc., Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ).  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710 and File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on July
2, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.    

3.1  
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to     the Company s Current Report on     Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710 and File No. 001-06152) as filed with
the Commission on July 2, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.    

3.2  
      
  Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as amended and restated on July 10, 2007.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-52710) for the period ended June 30, 2007, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

3.3  
      
  Certificate of Designations with respect to the Preferred Shares of the Company.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) filed on October 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.    

3.4  
      
  Warrant to Purchase up to 14,516,129 shares of Common Stock of the Company.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) filed on October 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by
reference.    

4.1  
      
  None of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company represent long-term debt in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Company. The Company hereby agrees to
furnish to the Commission, upon request, a copy of any such instrument.  
      
    N/A    
        *  Management contract or
compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to
employees of the Company. No executive officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.      
 38
  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              
    
    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  39   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   40  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   41   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   42  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  43   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   44  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  45   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   46  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  47   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   48  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  49   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of
Filing            

10.85*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Asset Management Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.86*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Asset Management Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.3 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.87*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Mellon Institutional Asset Management Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.4 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.88*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Deferred Share Award Agreement (Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock)   Corporate Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.7 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.89*  
     
  Form of Type I Stock Option Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.8 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.90*  
     
  Form of Option Agreement for Directors of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10.35 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31, 2004,
and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.91*  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.92*  
     
  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.93*  
     
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Item 1.01(1) to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated February 15, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    
    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan         
   50  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  51   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   52  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  53   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   54  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  55   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan         
   56  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  57   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   58  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of
Filing            

10.160*  
     
  Amendment to Change in Control Agreement, dated December 15, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Steven G. Elliott.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.161*  
     
  Amendment to Change in Control Agreement, dated December 15, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Ronald P. O Hanley  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.162*  
     
  Amendment to Continuing Terms of Employment Agreement, dated December 15, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Steven G. Elliott.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.163*  
     
  Amendment to Employment Letter Agreement, dated December 12, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Ronald P. O Hanley.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.164*  
     
  Amendment to Letter Agreement relating to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, dated December 15, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Robert P. Kelly.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.165*  
     
  Amendment to Letter Agreement, dated December 15, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Robert P. Kelly.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.166*  
     
  Form of Indemnification Agreement with Executive Officers of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.167*  
     
  Form of Indemnification Agreement with Directors of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.168*  
     
  Amendment to Change in Control Letter Agreement, dated December 11, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Gerald L. Hassell.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.169*  
     
  Amendment to Transition Agreement, dated December 15, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Gerald L. Hassell.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.170*  
     
  Amendment to Change in Control Letter Agreement, dated December 11, 2008, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Thomas P. Gibbons.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.171*  
     
  Amendment to the Mellon Bank IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan and Mellon Bank Benefit Restoration Plan, dated December 22, 2008.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.172*  
     
  Amendment to the Mellon Financial Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan for Senior Officers, dated December 22, 2008.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

10.173*  
     
  Amendment to the Mellon Financial Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, dated December 22, 2008.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

12.1  
     
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

13.1  
     
  All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference. The remaining portions are furnished for the information of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not  filed  as part of this filing.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

21.1  
     
  Primary subsidiaries of the Company.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

23.1  
     
  Consent of KPMG LLP.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

23.2  
     
  Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

24.1  
     
  Power of Attorney.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

31.1  
     
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

31.2  
     
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Filed herewith.    
    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION  59   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of
Filing            

32.1  
     
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Furnished herewith.    

32.2  
     
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Furnished herewith.    
    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Company s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Company. No executive
officers or directors of the Company are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   60  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

<EX-10.156>
 2
 dex10156.htm
 AMENDMENT TO SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

Amendment to Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 

Exhibit 10.156        AMENDMENT        TO SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN       Amendment (the  Amendment) to the Bank of New York Company, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ).       WHEREAS , The Bank of New York Company, Inc. has adopted the Plan;       WHEREAS,  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) is the successor in interest by merger to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.;       WHEREAS , the Plan authorizes the Board of Directors of the Company to amend or revise the terms of the Plan from time to time, prospectively or
retroactively;       WHEREAS , The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the
 HRCC ) is the successor to the Committee (with the HRCC hereinafter being referred to as the  Committee ), and has been delegated full authority by the Board of Directors to so amend or revise the terms of the plan on behalf of
the Board;       WHEREAS , in order to avoid certain adverse federal income tax consequences to holders of certain options under the Plan
as a result of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code relating to deferred compensation, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) desires to implement certain amendments to the Plan;       WHEREAS,  the Committee has further heretofore delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Executive
Officer and has authorized the Chief Executive Officer to further delegate such authority to the Company s Chief Human Resources Officer; and       WHEREAS,  the Company s Chief Executive Officer has delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Human Resources Officer.       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,  that the Plan is hereby amended as follows, effective as of January 1, 2009:      1.  Amendment to Section 2(e) . The first sentence of Section 2(e) is amended to add the following to the end thereof:        provided, further, that effective on and after January 1, 2005, in each case, prior to giving effect to any deferral of compensation under a
 deferred compensation plan  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.    

2.  Amendment to Section 4 . The first paragraph of Section 4 of the Plan are to be
replaced to read as follows:      A Participant shall be entitled to the Benefit provided under the Plan if his employment
terminates on or after the date he has attained age 60, other than by reason of death. A Participant whose employment terminates prior to attaining age 60, other than by reason of death, shall not be entitled to a Benefit under the Plan.   
  3.  Amendment to Section 5(c) . The first two paragraphs of Section 5(c) of the Plan are to be replaced to read as follows:   
  Payment of the Benefit to a Participant shall be made in the form of a lump sum, unless prior to January 1, 2006, the Participant
elected in writing with rules established by the Committee to receive payment in eleven annual installments. Payment shall be made or commenced within 30 days after the Participant s termination of employment with the Company, if his employment
terminates on or after the date he attains age 60, other than by reason of death.      In the event of the Participant s
death after installment payments have commenced, the remaining value of the Participant s Benefit shall be paid in a lump sum, within 90 days after the Participant s death, to his Beneficiary (with the actual payment date during such
90-day period determined by the Company in its discretion).      In the event of the Participant s death while an active
employee of the Company, payment of a Benefit to the Participant s Beneficiary shall be made in a lump sum within 90 days after the Participant s death (with the actual payment date during such 90-day period determined by the Company in
its discretion).      4.  Amendment to Section 5(c) . Paragraph four of Section 5(c) is amended to add the following to the
end thereto:         provided ,  however , that the foregoing shall only apply to the extent a  Change in Control 
constitutes  change in control event  within the meaning of Treas. Reg. 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i)       5.  Amendment to
Section 9 . The last sentence of Section 9 is amended to add the following to the end thereof:       and any amendment or
termination of the Plan shall not cause any Participant to become subject to additional tax under Section 409A of the Code.    

6.  Amendment to include Section 12 . Section 12 of the Plan is hereby added to read as
follows:      12.  Compliance of Plan with Section 409A.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or
elsewhere, if a Participant is a  specified employee  as determined pursuant to Section 409A of the Code as of the date the Participant s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation
1.409A-1(h)), then to the extent the Participant s Benefit is payable during the first six months following such  separation from service , such Benefit shall be paid in a cash lump-sum on the first business day of the seventh
calendar month following the month in which such  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, upon the Participant s death. In addition, any Benefit due upon a termination of employment shall only be paid upon a
 separation from service . For the purposes of this Agreement, each Benefit payment made pursuant hereto shall be deemed to be a separate payment.     7.  Effectiveness of Amendment . This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof.      8.
 Definitions . Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Plan.      9.
 Other Provisions Unaffected . Except as modified by this Amendment, the existing provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Amendment as of the 18th day of December, 2008.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/ S /      L ISA  B. P ETERS     
 
  By:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

</EX-10.156>

<EX-10.157>
 3
 dex10157.htm
 AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED 2003 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

Amendment to Amended and Restated 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.157        AMENDMENT        TO AMENDED AND RESTATED 2003 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN       Amendment to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan).       WHEREAS , The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (the  Company ) has adopted the Plan;       WHEREAS,  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) is the successor in interest by merger to The Bank of New York Company,
Inc.;       WHEREAS , Section 16 of the Plan authorizes the Board of Directors of the Company to amend the terms of the Plan, except
in certain respects not material hereto;       WHEREAS , The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Company (the  HRCC ) and has been delegated full authority by the Board of Directors to so amend or revise the terms of the plan on behalf of the Board;       WHEREAS , in order to avoid certain adverse federal income tax consequences to holders of certain options under the Plan as a result of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code relating to deferred
compensation, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) desires to implement certain amendments to the Plan;       WHEREAS,  the Committee
has heretofore delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Executive Officer and has authorized the Chief Executive Officer to further delegate such authority to the Company s Chief Human Resources
Officer; and       WHEREAS,  the Company s Chief Executive Officer has delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to
the Company s Chief Human Resources Officer.       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,  that the Plan is hereby amended as follows,
effective as of January 1, 2009:      1. The first paragraph of Section 8 is amended to add the following sentence to the end thereof:
      Settlement of performance shares granted in the form of share units shall be paid as soon as practicable, but in no event more than
30 days, after the date the  

Committee determines whether, and to what extent, any applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.       2. Section 9 is amended to add the following sentence to the end thereof:       Settlement of restricted stock granted in the form of share units shall be paid as soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30 days, after the
date the restrictions on such award lapse.       3. Section 11 is amended to add the following sentence to the end thereof:
      Notwithstanding anything under this Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent an Award granted hereunder constitutes
 deferred compensation  (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Section 409A )), such Award shall not be paid or settled upon a Change in Control, unless such Change in Control also qualifies as a
change in the ownership or effective control of the Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company, within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A(2)(A)(v).       4. Section 15 is amended to add the following proviso to the end thereof:         provided ,  howeve r, that no such substitution or adjustment shall be required if the Committee determines that such action would
cause an Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or otherwise would subject a Participant to an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of an outstanding
Award.       5. A new Section 18 is added to read as follows:       18. Compliance of Plan with Section 409A.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or an Award Agreement, if a
Participant is a  specified employee  as determined pursuant to Section 409A as of the date of such Participant s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)) and if any payment or
settlement of an Award granted to such Participant under this Plan both (x) constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A and (y) cannot be paid or settled in the manner otherwise provided
without subjecting the Participant to  additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A, then any such payment or settlement that is payable during the first six months following the Participant s  separation from
service  shall be paid or provided to the Participant in a cash lump-sum on the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which the Participant s  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at
the Participant s death. In addition, any payment or settlement of an Award due upon a termination of a Participant s employment that represents a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A shall only
be paid or provided  
       
   2   

to the Participant upon a  separation from service . For the purposes of this Plan, each payment or settlement under an Award shall be deemed
to be a separate payment.     6.  Effectiveness of Amendment . This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof.   
  7.  Definitions . Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Plan.      8.  Other Provisions Unaffected . Except as modified by this Amendment, the existing provisions of the Plan and Award Agreement shall remain in full
force and effect.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Executive have executed this Amendment as of the 18th day of December, 2008.

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/ S /      L ISA  B. P ETERS     
 
  By:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

3   

</EX-10.157>

<EX-10.158>
 4
 dex10158.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK COMPANY, INC. EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN

Amendment to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Benefit Plan 

Exhibit 10.158        AMENDMENT TO        THE BANK OF NEW YORK COMPANY, INC.        EXCESS BENEFIT PLAN       Amendment to The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Benefit Plan (the  Plan ).       WHEREAS , The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (the
 Company ) has adopted the Plan;       WHEREAS,  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) is the
successor in interest by merger to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.;       WHEREAS , Section 17 of the Plan provides that the
Committee (as defined in the Plan) may amend the Plan at any time, prospectively or retroactively, except in certain respects not material hereto;       WHEREAS , The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the  HRCC ) is the successor to the Committee (with the HRCC hereinafter being referred to as the  Committee ), and
has been delegated full authority by the Board of Directors to so amend or revise the terms of the plan on behalf of the Compensation Committee of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.;       WHEREAS , in order to avoid certain adverse federal income tax consequences to holders of certain options under the Plan as a result of
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code relating to deferred compensation, the Committee (as defined in the Plan) desires to implement certain amendments to the Plan;       WHEREAS,  the Committee has heretofore delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Executive Officer and
has authorized the Chief Executive Officer to further delegate such authority to the Company s Chief Human Resources Officer; and       WHEREAS,  the Company s Chief Executive Officer has delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Human Resources Officer.       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,  that the Plan is hereby amended as follows, effective as of January 1, 2009:      1. The first paragraph of Section 3 is amended to add the following clause to the end thereof to read as follows:   

, in each case, to the extent such benefit is accrued as of the date of payment of the Benefit
hereunder       2. The first paragraph of Section 11 is amended to add the following clause to the end thereof to read as follows:
      , in each case, to the extent such benefit is accrued as of the date of payment of the Part II Benefit hereunder       3. A new Section 20 is added to read as follows:      20.  Compliance of Plan with Section 409A . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan or elsewhere, if a Participant is a  specified employee  as determined pursuant to
Section 409A of the Code ( Section 409A ) as of the date of such Participant s  separation from service  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)) and if any payment of a Benefit or a Part II Benefit to
such Participant under this Plan both (x) constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A and (y) cannot be paid in the manner otherwise provided without subjecting the Participant to
 additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A, then any such payment that is payable during the first six months following the Participant s  separation from service  shall be paid or provided to the
Participant in a cash lump-sum on the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which the Participant s  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at the Participant s death. In addition,
any payment of a Benefit or Part II Benefit due upon a termination of a Participant s employment that represents a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A shall only be paid or provided to the Participant
upon a  separation from service . For the purposes of this Plan, each payment of a Benefit or a Part II Benefit hereunder shall be deemed to be a separate payment.     4.  Effectiveness of Amendment . This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof.      5.  Definitions . Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Plan.      6.  Other Provisions Unaffected . Except as modified by this Amendment, the existing provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Amendment as of the 18th day of December, 2008.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/ S /      L ISA  B.
P ETERS     
 
  By:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

</EX-10.158>

<EX-10.159>
 5
 dex10159.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE BANK OF NEW YORK COMPANY, INC. EXCESS CONTRIBUTION PLAN

Amendment to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Contribution Plan 

Exhibit 10.159        AMENDMENT TO        THE BANK OF NEW YORK COMPANY, INC.        EXCESS CONTRIBUTION PLAN       Amendment
(the  Amendment) to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Contribution Plan (the  Plan ).       WHEREAS , The Bank of
New York Company, Inc. has adopted the Plan;       WHEREAS,  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) is the
successor in interest by merger to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.;       WHEREAS , Section 19 of the Plan provides that the
Committee (as defined in the Plan) may amend the Plan at any time, prospectively or retroactively, except in certain respects not material hereto;       WHEREAS , The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the  HRCC ) is the successor to the Committee (with the HRCC hereinafter being referred to as the  Committee ), and
has been delegated full authority by the Board of Directors of the Company to so amend or revise the terms of the plan on behalf of the Board;       WHEREAS , in order to avoid certain adverse federal income tax consequences to holders of certain options under the Plan as a result of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code relating to deferred compensation, the Committee
(as defined in the Plan) desires to implement certain amendments to the Plan;       WHEREAS,  the Committee has heretofore delegated
authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Executive Officer and has authorized the Chief Executive Officer to further delegate such authority to the Company s Chief Human Resources Officer; and       WHEREAS,  the Company s Chief Executive Officer has delegated authority to amend the Plan for these purposes to the Company s Chief Human
Resources Officer.       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED,  that the Plan is hereby amended as follows, effective as of January 1,
2009:      1. The second sentence of Section 4 is amended in its entirety to read as follows:       Within 30 days after the later of (a) the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or (b) the Participant s
attainment of age 55, the Participant  

shall receive a lump sum payment, in cash, of the excess, if any, of (i) the equivalent actuarial value of the Stock Units credited to the
Participant s Account, expressed as a life annuity, over (ii) the benefit to which the Participant is entitled to receive under Part I of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Benefit Plan, to the extent such benefit is accrued as of
the date of payment of the benefit hereunder.       2. The first paragraph of Section 13 is amended to add the following clause to
the end thereof to read as follows:       Within 30 days after the later of (a) the Participant s termination of employment with
the Company or (b) the Participant s attainment of age 55, the Participant shall receive a lump sum payment of the excess, if any, of (i) the equivalent actuarial value of the Stock Units credited to the Participant s Part II
Account, expressed as a life annuity, over (ii) the sum of (A) benefit to which the Participant is entitled to receive under Part II of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Benefit Plan, to the extent such benefit is accrued as of the
date of payment of the benefit hereunder, and (B) the equivalent actuarial value of the Stock Units credited to the Participant s Part II Account.       3. Section 19 is amended to add the following to the end of the last sentence thereof:       , and no
such amendment or termination shall cause a Participant to be liable for additional tax under Section 409A of the Code       4. A new
Section 22 is added to read as follows:      22.  Compliance of Plan with Section 409A . Notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Plan or elsewhere, if a Participant is a  specified employee  as determined pursuant to Section 409A of the Code ( Section 409A ) as of the date of such Participant s  separation from
service  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)) and if any payment of a Benefit or a Part II Benefit to such Participant under this Plan both (x) constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of
Section 409A and (y) cannot be paid in the manner otherwise provided without subjecting the Participant to  additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A, then any such payment that is payable during the first
six months following the Participant s  separation from service  shall be paid or provided to the Participant in a cash lump-sum on the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which the
Participant s  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at the Participant s death. In addition, any payment of a Benefit or Part II Benefit due upon a termination of a Participant s employment that represents a
 deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A shall only be paid or provided to the Participant upon a  separation from service . For the purposes of this Plan, each payment of  

benefits under Part I and Part II hereunder shall be deemed to be a separate payment.     5.  Effectiveness of Amendment . This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Plan.      7.  Other Provisions Unaffected . Except as modified by this Amendment, the existing provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has executed this Amendment as of the 18th day of December, 2008.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/ S /      L ISA  B.
P ETERS     
 
  By:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

</EX-10.159>

<EX-10.160>
 6
 dex10160.htm
 AMENDMENT TO CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & STEVEN G. ELLIOTT

Amendment to Change in Control Agreement between BNY Mellon   Steven G. Elliott 

Exhibit 10.160         AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT        WHEREAS, Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ) and Steven
G. Elliott, an employee (the  Executive ) have previously entered into an agreement regarding Executive s employment and the possibility of a change in control, dated as of February 1, 1997 (the  Change in Control
Agreement ), as amended on December 22, 2006 as part of the Amendment to Agreements in contemplation of the merger of Mellon and The Bank of New York Company, Inc., on July 5, 2007, and on October 24, 2008 as part of the The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation s participation in the United States Department of Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program; and      WHEREAS, the parties desire to further amend the Change in Control Agreement in a manner which reflects the parties best efforts to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), for the benefit of the Executive;      NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Executive, for good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree that the Change in Control Agreement shall be amended as follows:      1. Section l(j) of the Change in Control Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows (for convenience, additional language
is shown in bold but deletions are not shown):       Termination Period  means the period of time beginning with a Change in Control
and ending three (3) years following such Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) Executive s employment is terminated prior to a Change in Control for reasons that would have constituted
a Qualifying Termination if they had occurred following a Change in Control; (ii) Executive reasonably demonstrates that such termination (or Good Reason event) was at the request of a third party who had indicated an intention or taken steps
reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control; and (iii) a Change in Control  that also qualifies as a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets the Company
under Section 409A of the Code (a  409A CIC ) and  involving such third party (or a party competing with such third party to effectuate a Change in Control) does occur, then for purposes of this Agreement, the date immediately
prior to the date of such termination of employment or event constituting Good Reason shall be treated as a Change of Control.      2. The last
paragraph of Section 4(a) of the Change in Control Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:      The
amounts set forth in Section 4(a)(i)(A) and (C) shall be payable on the first regularly scheduled payroll date following the Date of Termination. The amounts set forth in Section 4(a)(i)(B) shall be payable on the date set forth and
in accordance with the terms of the plan under which the bonus is provided. The amounts set forth in Section 4(a)(ii) shall be payable in a single lump sum 30 days following the separation from service; provided that if Executive is a Specified
Employee under Section 409A of the Code on the termination of employment then such amounts payable by reason of separation from service shall be paid on the first day following the six month anniversary of the Executive s separation from
service; provided further that if such amount is paid by reason of the circumstances described in Section l(j), then payment shall be made upon the 409A CIC or, if later, the first day following the six-month anniversary of the  

Executive s separation from service in the case where the Executive is a Specified Employee under Section 409A of the Code upon termination.
     3. The following additional sentence shall be added to the end of Section 4(d) of the Change in Control Agreement:      Additional payments may not be made in replacement or substitution of any deferred compensation.      4. The last two sentences of Section 7 of the Change in Control Agreement, added pursuant to the amendment of July 5, 2007, shall be deleted
and the following sentences shall be added in replacement:      Such reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by Executive shall be
reimbursed within ten (10) business days after delivery of the Executive s written requests for payment accompanied with such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the Company reasonably may require; provided, however, if Executive is
a Specified Employee under Section 409A of the Code upon termination, then no such amounts may be paid until the first day following the six month anniversary of the Date of Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall payments
be made later than the last day of the Executive s taxable year following the taxable year in which the fee or expense was incurred.      5. Except as provided in this amendment, the Change in Control Agreement is, in all other respects, unchanged and is and shall continue to be in full force and effect.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this amendment, in duplicate, on the dates set forth below.       

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

12/12/08    

Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters  
     
  Date Signed   

Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President  

Executive   

12-15-08    

Steven G. Elliott  
     
  Date Signed   
       
   - 2 -   

</EX-10.160>

<EX-10.161>
 7
 dex10161.htm
 AMENDMENT TO CHANGE IN CONTROL AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & RONALD P. O'HANLEY

Amendment to Change in Control Agreement between BNY Mellon   Ronald P. O'Hanley 

Exhibit 10.161         AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT        WHEREAS, Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ) and Ronald
P. O Hanley, an employee (the  Executive ) have previously entered into an agreement regarding Executive s employment and the possibility of a change in control, dated as of June 18, 2001 (the  Change in Control
Agreement ), as amended on December 22, 2006 as part of the Amendment to Agreements in contemplation of the merger of Mellon and The Bank of New York Company, Inc., on July 28, 2007, and on October 24, 2008 as part of the The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s participation in the United States Department of Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program; and      WHEREAS, the parties desire to further amend the Change in Control Agreement in a manner which reflects the parties best efforts to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), for the benefit of the Executive;      NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Executive, for good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree that the Change in Control Agreement shall be amended as follows:      1. Section 1(j) of the Change in Control Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows (for convenience, additional
language is shown in bold but deletions are not shown):       Termination Period  means the period of time beginning with a Change in
Control and ending three (3) years following such Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if (i) Executive s employment is terminated prior to a Change in Control for reasons that would have
constituted a Qualifying Termination if they had occurred following a Change in Control; (ii) Executive reasonably demonstrates that such termination (or Good Reason event) was at the request of a third party who had indicated an intention or
taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control; and (iii) a Change in Control  that also qualifies as a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of the assets the
Company under Section 409A of the Code (a  409A CIC )  and involving such third party (or a party competing with such third party to effectuate a Change in Control) does occur, then for purposes of this Agreement, the date
immediately prior to the date of such termination of employment or event constituting Good Reason shall be treated as a Change in Control.      2. The last paragraph of Section 4(a) of the Change in Control Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:      The amounts set forth in Section 4(a)(i)(A) and (C) shall be payable on the first regularly scheduled payroll date following the Date of Termination. The amounts set forth in Section 4(a)(i)(B) shall be
payable on the date set forth and in accordance with the terms of the plan under which the bonus is provided. The amounts set forth in Section 4(a)(ii) shall be payable in a single lump sum 30 days following the separation from service;
provided that if Executive is a Specified Employee under Section 409A of the Code on the termination of employment then such amounts payable by reason of separation from service shall be paid on the first day following the six month anniversary
of the Executive s separation from service; provided further that if such amount is paid by reason of the circumstances described in Section l(j), then payment shall be made upon the 409A CIC or, if later, the first day following the six-month
anniversary of the Executive s separation from service in the case where the Executive is a Specified Employee under Section 409A of the Code upon termination.   

Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing provisions regarding payments under Section 4(a)(ii) to
the contrary (but subject to the six month delay in the case of a Specified Employee), if the Change in Control event does not constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in ownership of a substantial portion of
the assets of the Company under Section 409A of the Code, then an amount equal to the amount that would have been paid under Executive s Letter Agreement dated April 19, 2006, as amended, upon a involuntary separation of employment
(as defined in that letter agreement) that would qualify the Executive for separation pay thereunder had a Change in Control not occurred, shall be paid at the time and in the manner provided in the letter agreement and the remaining amounts payable
under Section 4(a)(ii) shall be paid in a lump sum.      3. The following additional sentences shall be added to the end of
Section 4(d) of the Change in Control Agreement:      Payments referred to in the first sentence of this Section 4(d) shall be payable
on the first regularly scheduled payroll date following the date of termination. Additional payments may not be made in replacement or substitution of any deferred compensation.      4. The last two sentences of Section 7 of the Change in Control Agreement, added pursuant to the amendment of December 22, 2006, shall be
deleted and the following sentences shall be added in replacement:      Such reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by Executive shall be
reimbursed within ten (10) business days after delivery of the Executive s written requests for payment accompanied with such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the Company reasonably may require; provided, however, if Executive is
a Specified Employee under Section 409A of the Code upon termination, then no such amounts may be paid until the first day following the six month anniversary of the Date of Termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall payments
be made later than the last day of the Executive s taxable year following the taxable year in which the fee or expense was incurred.      5. Except as provided in this amendment, the Change in Control Agreement is, in all other respects, unchanged and is and shall continue to be in full force and effect.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this amendment, in duplicate, on the dates set forth below.       

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

12/12/08    

Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters  
     
  Date Signed   

Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President  

Executive   

12-15-08    

Ronald P. O Hanley  
     
  Date Signed   
       
   - 2 -   

</EX-10.161>

<EX-10.162>
 8
 dex10162.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & STEVEN G. ELLIOTT

Amendment to Employment Letter Agreement between BNY Mellon   Steven G. Elliott 

Exhibit 10.162         AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT        WHEREAS, Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ) and Steven
G. Elliott (the  Executive ) have previously entered into an employment agreement dated February 1, 2004 (the  Employment Agreement ), as amended December 22, 2006; and      WHEREAS, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ) is the successor by merger to Mellon; and   
  WHEREAS, the Employment Agreement has expired; and      WHEREAS, certain provisions of the Employment Agreement provide for a Supplemental Retirement Benefit; and      WHEREAS, the parties desire to further amend the provisions of the Employment Agreement pertaining to the Supplemental Retirement Benefit in a manner which reflects the parties best efforts to comply with the provisions of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), including transition guidance with respect to Section 409A, for the benefit of the Executive;      NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Executive, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, and
intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:      1. Section 8 of the Employment Agreement, pertaining to the Supplemental
Retirement Benefit, shall be amended and restated to read as follows below. For sake of convenience, additions are shown in bold type, but deletions are not shown:      8.  Supplemental Retirement Benefit.  The Executive will be entitled to receive a monthly Supplemental Retirement Benefit (the  Supplemental Retirement Benefit ) commencing on the first day of the month
coincident with or following the later of the Executive s termination of employment or attainment of age 60 and continuing for the remainder of his life;  provided, however, that if Executive is a  specified employee  under
Section 409A of the Code upon his separation from service, then no amounts payable by reason of Executive s separation from service may be paid until the first day following the six-month anniversary of the Executive s termination
and, to the extent otherwise payable during such period, such amounts shall be accumulated and paid on the first day following the six-month anniversary of the Executive s termination.  Unless otherwise elected by the Executive as provided
herein, the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be payable in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity which shall be unreduced for the actuarial value of the survivor s benefit. If the Executive s spouse at the time of his death is
not more than four years younger than the Executive, the survivor benefit shall be equal to 50% of the Executive s benefit and shall be payable to his spouse for the remainder of the spouse s life. If the Executive s spouse at the
time of his death is more than four years younger than the Executive, the benefit payable to the spouse shall be reduced to a benefit having the same actuarial value as the benefit that would have been payable had the spouse been four years younger
than the Executive. The Executive shall also have the right to elect on or before December 31,  2008  a 100% joint and survivor annuity, on an actuarially-reduced basis or a lump-sum payment, on an actuarially-reduced basis (if the
Executive makes a timely lump-sum election which avoids constructive receipt), or any other form of payment available or provided under the  Supplemental Plans  defined in this Section 8.  The Executive shall also have the right to
elect among actuarially equivalent life annuity forms of   

payment, which election may be made at any time provided that Executive has not elected a lump-sum . Actuarial reductions shall be based on the actual
ages of the Executive and his spouse at the time of retirement. If the Executive is not married at the time of his retirement, actuarial adjustments shall be made as if the Executive had a spouse with the same date of birth as the Executive. In the
event that the Executive elects a form of payment other than the automatic 50% joint and survivor annuity or other than a lump sum payment, and remarries subsequent to retirement, the benefits payable under this Section shall be actuarially adjusted
at the time of the Executive s death to reflect the age of the subsequent spouse. If the Executive elects a lump sum payment at retirement, no further benefits will be payable under this Section.      The amount of the monthly retirement benefit as an unreduced 50% joint and survivor annuity shall be equal to the product of (A) the
 Service Percentage  multiplied by (B) the Executive s  Final Average Compensation,  with such product reduced by (C)  $3,318.91 in the form of a life annuity payable at age 65 (but for reduction purposes
converted to a 50% joint and survivor annuity in accordance with the terms of the Mellon Bank Retirement Plan, or successor thereto, and further adjusted in accordance with those terms for earlier or later payment at the time of commencement of
benefits under this Agreement) and  the total monthly amount of benefits (measured for purposes of this offset as if the Executive elected a 50% joint and survivor annuity payable as of the date benefits commence under this Agreement) provided to
or in respect of the Executive under all tax-qualified retirement plans, but not including payments from the Mellon Financial Corporation Retirement Savings Plan, a 401(k) plan,  or any successor plan .      The Executive owns interests in life insurance policies (the  Policies ) as a participant in the Mellon Bank Senior Executive
Life Insurance Plan. The Supplemental Retirement Benefit payable to the Executive hereunder shall be further reduced by the Executive s interest in the cash value of the Policies. This reduction shall be calculated in the same manner as  is
set forth  under the  Mellon Bank IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan and the Mellon Bank Benefit Restoration Plan ( Supplemental Plans ) . In the event the United States federal income tax laws change or are interpreted so as to
cause Executive s ownership interest in Policies to be subject to taxation, the Executive and the Company will negotiate in good faith to mitigate the effects of such change.      The Executive shall be vested in the Supplemental Retirement Benefit provided under this Paragraph as of February 1, 1998.
     The Executive shall elect, on or before December 31,  2008 , the form of payment of his Supplemental Retirement
Benefit; provided, however, that no amounts so elected  in 2008  may be received in  2008 . In the event that the Executive elects a form of payment of his Supplemental Retirement Benefits which provides for payments to continue after his
death and the Executive dies without having received all payments of Supplemental Retirement Benefits that may be payable hereunder, then the unpaid balance of such benefits shall be paid in accordance with the form of payment elected by the
Executive. Any such remaining payments shall be made to the Executive s beneficiary provided under the Supplemental Plans, subject to any contrary written instructions from the Executive designating a different beneficiary for such payments.
     Solely for amounts vested on or before December 31, 2004, and amounts earned thereon, the Executive may also elect,
upon not less than 12 months  advance written notice, to have the payment of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit commence on the first day of any month coincident with or after the later of his termination of employment or attainment of age 55.
In this event, the Supplemental Retirement Benefits will be  
       
   - 2 -   

subject to an early payment reduction amount equal to 0.5% per month (6% per annum) for each month that payments commence before attainment of age 60.
In the event of such retirement, the Term and the Company s obligations to make payments under Section 4 above shall cease as of the retirement date.       Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of benefit hereunder which is equal to the maximum life annuity to which the Executive would
be entitled under the terms of the Mellon Bank Retirement Plan, or successor thereto, ( MBRP ) without regard to the application of the compensation limitation imposed by IRC Section 401(a)(17) or the benefit limitation imposed by IRC
Section 415, less the maximum life annuity to which Executive is entitled under the MBRP and any  grandfathered benefits  under, and as defined in, the Supplemental Plans, shall be payable in accordance with the Time and Form of
Payment provisions of the Supplemental Plans.       The Executive may also elect, on or before December 31,  2008 ,
and  thereafter  prior to the commencement of Supplemental Retirement Benefit payments  (but if an annuity form of payment had previously been elected, subject to  not less than 12 months  advance written notice  and to the five
year deferral of payment from when the first annuity payment otherwise would have been made pursuant to a prior annuity form of payment election) , to have the lump sum value of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit to which the Executive would
otherwise be entitled applied to the purchase of a single premium annuity in a form and from an issuer selected or concurred in by the Executive. In the event of such an election by the Executive, the sole responsibilities of the Company shall be to
apply the amount of the lump sum value of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit to the purchase of the annuity selected or concurred in by the Executive and the distribution of such annuity to the Executive. Thereafter, the Executive shall look solely
to the issuer of the annuity for payment on account of or in connection with the Supplemental Retirement Benefit and agrees that the Company and its affiliates, and each of their officers, directors and employees, shall have no further liability in
respect of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit or by reason of the application of the lump sum value as elected by the Executive or the selection of the form or issuer of the annuity.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Executive  be deemed to be retired, or to have elected to commence retirement
benefits, for purposes of any separation pay plan  while the Executive is entitled to payments under Paragraph 6(a) or Paragraph 6(b) or during any period for which the Executive receives additional service credit in respect of a  Qualifying
Termination  as provided in clause (B) of the definition of  Service Percentage  below.      As used in this
Section 8:      (i)  Service Percentage  means 2% for each full year of the Executive s employment with the
Company (plus service with a prior employer if treated as credited service with the Company) commencing August 10, 1987 and ending as of the later of (i) the date his active employment with the Company terminates or (ii) the last date
during any period for which the Executive receives Continuing Payments, plus 2% for (A) each full year, if any, that the Executive receives payments under Paragraph 6(a) or 6(b) hereof (with such percentage pro-rated for the partial contract
year in which such final termination of the Executive s employment occurs or in which such final payments under Paragraph 6(a) or 6(b) hereof are made, whichever shall be applicable) or (B) for each of the three years following any
 Qualifying Termination  of the Executive s Employment during the  Termination Period,  each as defined in the Prior Agreement; plus 2% for either the partial year in which such final termination of the Executive s

- 3 -   

employment occurs or the partial year in which such final Continuing Payments are made, whichever shall be applicable (with such 2% pro-rated for such
partial year).      (ii)  Final Average Compensation  means one-twelfth (1/12th) of the sum of the
Executive s Base Salary paid and the Cash Bonus Amount of any bonus award earned for (a) the calendar year within the final three (3) full calendar years of the Executive s employment by the Company which produces the highest
amount or (b) the average of the highest amounts within any three (3) full calendar years of the final five (5) full calendar years of the Executive s employment by the Company, whichever of (a) or (b) produced the
higher amounts. For purposes of determining Final Average Compensation (A) Bonus Plan awards shall be attributed to the calendar year in which earned, whether paid in that calendar year or the year following or deferred and (B) any portion
of the Executive s Base Salary and bonus award which is deferred by the Executive under agreements with the Company or under any Company employee benefit plan shall be included for purposes of determining Final Average Compensation.   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a  Qualifying
Termination  of the Executive s employment during the  Termination Period,  each as defined in the Prior Agreement,  Final Average Compensation  for purposes of computing the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall mean
one- twelfth (1/12   th   ) of the sum of (i) the Executive s highest annual rate of base salary during the 12-month period immediately
prior to the Executive s Date of Termination and (ii) the Executive s Bonus Amount, as defined in the Prior Agreement. In addition, the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be payable without any reduction for early payment in the
event the Executive is less than age 60 at the time that payment is made. Further, if during the Termination Period the employment of Executive shall terminate pursuant to a Qualifying Termination, the Company shall provide Executive with three
(3) additional years of service credit under all non-qualified retirement plans and excess benefit plans in which the Executive participated as of his Date of Termination;  provided ,  however , that if Executive s Date of
Termination is within three (3) years of the earliest date on which termination by the Executive could otherwise be considered a retirement ( Retirement Date ), the number of years of additional service credit shall be equal to the
product of (x) three, and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is equal to the number of full months from the Date of Termination to the Retirement Date, and the denominator of which is equal to 36. In the event of such a
 Qualifying Termination,  if elected by Executive on or before December 31,  2008 , the present value of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be payable to the Executive in a lump sum  within 30 days following the
Executive s termination or, if Executive is a  specified employee  upon his separation from service, such payment shall not be made until the first day following the six-month anniversary of the Executive s termination . The
present value shall be calculated in the same manner and using the actuarial factors set forth in the Supplemental Plans as of the effective date of this Agreement.      In the event the Executive s termination of employment is due to death prior to the commencement of the payment of Supplemental
Retirement Benefits under this Section 8, and he shall be survived by a spouse, entitlement to Supplemental Retirement Benefits will become fully vested and such spouse shall be entitled to receive a pre-retirement death benefit, payable in the
form of a lifetime annuity, equal to the benefit that would have been payable had he retired immediately prior to death and elected a 50% joint and survivor annuity, but without any early payment reductions applicable for payments prior to age 60.
If the Executive s spouse at the time of his death is more than four years younger than the Executive, the benefit payable to the survivor shall be reduced to a benefit having the same actuarial value as the benefit that would have been payable
had the spouse been four years younger than the Executive.         
   - 4 -   

2. Except as provided in this amendment, the Supplemental Retirement provision of the Employment
Agreement are, in all other respects, unchanged.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this amendment, in duplicate, on the dates
set forth below.       

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

12/12/08    

Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters  
     
  Date Signed   

Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President  

Executive   

12-15-08    

Steven G. Elliott  
     
  Date Signed   
       
   - 5 -   

</EX-10.162>

<EX-10.163>
 9
 dex10163.htm
 AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & RONALD P. O'HANLEY

Amendment to Employment Letter Agreement between BNY Mellon   Ronald P. O'Hanley 

Exhibit 10.163      

       Lisa B. Peters  Senior Executive Vice President      December 12, 2008      Ronald P. O Hanley      Aim No. 024-0153      Dear Ron:      Effective April 19, 2006 you and Mellon Financial Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement which set forth the understanding between you and Mellon with respect
to your compensation and benefits related to your employment. This Letter Agreement was amended on December 22, 2006 as a part of the Amendment to Agreements in contemplation of the merger of Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New
York Company, Inc., and on October 24, 2008 as a part of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s participation in the United States Department of Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program. Upon further review of your Letter
Agreement, as amended, an additional amendment is necessary prior to year end to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A (Section 409A).      By
way of background, Section 409A requires that all documentation of deferred compensation arrangements subject to Section 409A must reflect the applicable requirements of Section 409A by no later than December 31, 2008.
Accordingly, all such documentation must include the appropriate time and method for paying such deferred compensation.      Failure to comply with
Section 409A (including failure to properly document the arrangement by December 31, 2008) will subject the employee to a 20% additional tax penalty, as well as underpayment interest on, the deferred compensation amount. Additionally, such
deferred compensation amount will be included in the employee s current taxable gross income even if it has not yet been received.      The following
language from your Letter Agreement which originally read as set forth in italics, shall be and hereby is deleted in its entirety and shall have no further force and effect:       

Involuntary Separation of Employment.     In the event that your employment with Mellon involuntarily terminates due to either a Without Cause
Termination or a Constructive Discharge; and provided that you execute a separation agreement and general release of claims in a form acceptable to Mellon s legal counsel, Mellon agrees to provide you with the following cash and non-cash
benefits. If Mellon determines that it is necessary or appropriate for any payments, including benefits which cannot be provided on a nontaxable basis, to be delayed in order to avoid additional tax, interest and/or penalties under Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), then the payments and benefits would not be made before the date which is the first day following the six (6) month anniversary of the date of the involuntary separation (or upon earlier
death);          The following new language shall be added in place of the deleted language. For sake of convenience, additions are shown in
bold type, but deletions are not shown:      Human Resources      One Mellon Center, 7th Floor, Pittsburgh, PA 15258      T 412 234 8254 lisa.peters bnymellon.com   

2
      Ronald P. O Hanley      December 12, 2008         

Involuntary Separation of Employment .  In the event that your employment with Mellon involuntarily terminates due to either a Without Cause Termination
or a Constructive Discharge; and provided that  within a 60 day period beginning upon your involuntary termination  you execute a separation agreement and general release of claims in a form acceptable to Mellon s legal counsel
 ( Separation Agreement ) and the revocation period set forth in the Separation Agreement has expired . Mellon agrees to provide you with the following cash and non-cash benefits. If Mellon determines that it is necessary or
appropriate for any payments, including benefits which cannot be provided on a nontaxable basis, to be delayed in order to avoid additional tax, interest and/or penalties under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code ), then
the payments and benefits would not be made before the date which is the first day following the six (6) month anniversary of the date of the involuntary separation (or upon earlier death);         In addition, the italicized sentences in the paragraph set forth below shall be deleted:       

Transition Pay.  You will receive seventy-eight (78) weeks of separation pay in an amount equivalent to your base salary in effect, less all applicable
taxes and deductions  ( Separation Pay Amount ) .  Such Separation Pay Amount shall be reduced by the full amount of the cash displacement pay benefits (before taxes and deductions) actually paid to you pursuant to the Mellon
Financial Corporation Displacement Program, Mellon Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and/or Change in Control Agreement in effect and applicable to you and for which you are eligible. Such reduced amount shall be hereinafter referred to as the
Employee s     Transition Pay   . The time between the date upon which you begin to receive Transition Pay and the date upon which your Transition Pay ceases will be the   Transition Period .  Subject to
Mellon s determination of a Code Section 409A delay, the first twelve (12) periodic installments will be delayed until the first day following the six (6) month anniversary of your separation from service. After which, Transition
Pay will be paid in periodic installments (with the first payment after the Code Section 409A delay including the prior installment payments) on regularly scheduled pay dates until the final installment of transition;
        The following new language shall be added in place of the deleted language. For sake of convenience, additions are shown in bold type,
but deletions are not shown:       

Transition Pay.  You will receive seventy-eight (78) weeks of separation pay in an amount equivalent to your base salary in effect, less all applicable
taxes and deductions  ( Separation Pay Amount ) . Such Separation Pay Amount shall be reduced by the full amount,  including an aggregate of all payments for which you are eligible under the Change in Control Agreement,  of the
cash displacement pay benefits (before taxes and deductions) actually paid to you pursuant to the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program, Mellon Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan and/or Change in Control Agreement in effect and
applicable to you and for which you are eligible. Such reduced amount shall be hereinafter referred to as the Employee s   Transition Pay  and paid in the same time and form as payments pursuant to the Displacement Program . The
time between the date upon which you begin to receive Transition Pay and the date upon which your Transition Pay ceases will be the   Transition Period .  Subject to Mellon s determination of a Code Section 409A delay, the
first twelve (12) periodic installments will be delayed until the first day following the six (6) month anniversary of your separation from service. After which, Transition Pay will be paid in periodic installments (with the first payment
after the Code Section  

3
      Ronald P. O Hanley      December 12, 2008         

409A delay including the prior installment payments) on regularly scheduled pay dates until the final installment of transition:
        Finally, the italicized sentence in paragraph 3 set forth below shall be deleted:       

Special Bonus Award.  In addition, you will receive a special bonus award equal to one and one-half times the average of your prior two-year bonus annualized
awards, less applicable taxes and deductions.  The special bonus award will be paid all in cash 30 days following the last Transition Pay installment payment date; and          The following new language shall be added in place of the deleted language:      The Special Bonus Award will be paid all in cash and on the next regularly scheduled pay date one year after the involuntary termination of your employment due to either a Without Cause Termination or a Constructive Discharge.   

Yours sincerely,   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

By:  

Lisa B. Peters, Senior Executive Vice President   

Intending to be legally bound, I agree with and accept the forgoing terms on the date set forth below.   

Ronald P. O Hanley   

12/15/2008    
 
  Date:   

</EX-10.163>

<EX-10.164>
 10
 dex10164.htm
 AMENDMENT TO LETTER AGREEMENT REGARDING SEC. 409A AMONG BNY MELLON & MR. KELLY

Amendment to Letter Agreement regarding Sec. 409A among BNY Mellon   Mr. Kelly 

Exhibit 10.164      

       Lisa B. Peters  Senior Executive Vice President      December 15, 2008      Via Hand Delivery      Mr. Robert P. Kelly      Aim No. 102-1000      Dear Bob:      Effective February 13, 2006 you and Mellon Financial
Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement which set forth the understanding between you and Mellon with respect to your compensation and benefits related to your employment. This Letter Agreement was amended on December 22, 2006 as a part of
the Amendment to Agreements in contemplation of the merger of Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Company, Inc., and on October 24, 2008 as a part of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s participation in the United
States Department of Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program. Upon further review of your Letter Agreement, as amended, an additional amendment is necessary prior to year end to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A (Section
409A).      By way of background, Section 409A requires that all documentation of deferred compensation arrangements subject to Section 409A must
reflect the applicable requirements of Section 409A by no later than December 31, 2008. Accordingly, all such documentation must include the appropriate time and method for paying such deferred compensation.      Failure to comply with Section 409A (including failure to properly document the arrangement by December 31, 2008) will subject the employee to a 20% additional
tax penalty, as well as underpayment interest on, the deferred compensation amount. Additionally, such deferred compensation amount will be included in the employee s current taxable gross income even if it has not yet been received.
     The following new language shall be added to the second paragraph of your Letter Agreement:      Base salary shall be payable on regularly scheduled payroll dates and in accordance with Mellon s standard payroll practices, and any bonus will be payable in accordance with the terms, including time and form of
payment, and conditions of the underlying bonus program.      Additionally, the penultimate sentence of the fourth paragraph of your Letter Agreement, which
originally read as set forth in italics, shall be and hereby is deleted in its entirety and shall have no further force and effect:       Prior to payment of
any amounts described in this paragraph, you agree to execute a general release and waiver, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B of all claims you may have against Mellon and its directors, officers and affiliates.       Human Resources      One Mellon Center, 7th Floor,
Pittsburgh, PA 15258      T 412 234 8254 lisa.peters@bnymellon.com   

Via Hand Delivery      Mr. Robert P. Kelly      Aim No. 102-1000      The following new language shall be added in place of the deleted language. For sake of convenience, additions are shown in bold type, but deletions are not shown:      Payment of any amounts described in this paragraph  are conditioned upon, within a 60 day period beginning upon your termination, your execution of  a general release and waiver, substantially in the form
attached as Exhibit B of all claims you may have against Mellon and its directors, officers and affiliates, and  the revocation period set forth in the release having expired. Payment of any amounts paid pursuant to the Change in Control Agreement
shall be payable in accordance with the terms, including the time and form of payment, and conditions of such Change in Control Agreement. Vesting and exercisability of any equity awards shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the
underlying plan and equity award agreement. Payment of any other amounts shall be payable in a lump sum within 60 days following your separation from service; provided, however, if you are Specified Employee under Section 409A of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the  Code ) upon your separation from service and Mellon determines that it is necessary or appropriate for any payments, including benefits listed on Exhibit A or otherwise which cannot be provided on a
nontaxable basis, to be delayed in order to avoid additional tax, interest and/or penalties under Code Section 409A, then the payments and benefits would not be made before the date which is the first day following the six (6) month
anniversary of the date of your separation from service.       Additionally, enumerated item 4 of Exhibit A to your Letter Agreement, titled
 Supplemental Retirement Benefit , shall be amended as provided in attached.       

Yours sincerely,   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

By:  

Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President   

Intending to be legally bound, I agree with and accept the forgoing terms on the date set forth below.   

Robert P. Kelly   

12/15/08    
 
  Date:  

</EX-10.164>

<EX-10.165>
 11
 dex10165.htm
 AMENDMENT TO LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & ROBERT P. KELLY

Amendment to Letter Agreement between BNY Mellon   Robert P. Kelly 

Exhibit 10.165         AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT        WHEREAS, Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ) and Robert
P. Kelly (the  Executive ) have previously entered into a letter agreement dated January 30, 2006 and executed January 31, 2006 (the  Employment Letter ), as amended December 22, 2006; and      WHEREAS, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ) is the successor by merger to Mellon; and   
  WHEREAS, the parties desire to further amend the Employment Letter in a manner which reflects the parties best efforts to comply with the provisions
of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), including transition guidance with respect to Section 409A, for the benefit of the Executive;      NOW THEREFORE, the Company and the Executive, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, and
intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:      1. Section 5 of Exhibit A of the Employment Letter shall be amended and
restated to read as follows below. For sake of convenience, additions are shown in bold type, but deletions are not shown.       Supplemental
Retirement Benefit.  The Executive will be entitled to receive a monthly Supplemental Retirement Benefit (the  Supplemental Retirement Benefit ) commencing on the first day of the month coincident with or following the later of the
Executive s termination of employment or attainment of age 60 and continuing for the remainder of his life;  provided, however, that if Executive is a  specified employee  under Section 409A of the Code upon his separation from
service, then no amounts payable by reason of Executive s separation from service may be paid until the first day following the six-month anniversary of the Executive s termination and, to the extent otherwise payable during such period,
such amounts shall be accumulated and paid on the first day following the six-month anniversary of the Executive s termination . Unless otherwise elected by the Executive as provided herein, the Supplemental Retirement Benefit shall be
payable in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity which shall be unreduced for the actuarial value of the survivor s benefit. If the Executive s spouse at the time of his death is not more than four years younger than the Executive,
the survivor benefit shall be equal to 50% of the Executive s benefit and shall be payable to his spouse for the remainder of the spouse s life. If the Executive s spouse at the time of his death is more than four years younger than
the Executive, the benefit payable to the spouse shall be reduced to a benefit having the same actuarial value as the benefit that would have been payable had the spouse been four years younger than the Executive. The Executive shall also have the
right to elect on or before December 31,  2008  a 100% joint and survivor annuity, on an actuarially-reduced basis or a lump-sum payment, on an actuarially-reduced basis (if the Executive makes a timely lump-sum election which avoids
constructive receipt and the imposition of additional taxes under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), or any other form of payment available or provided under the  Supplemental Plans  defined below.  The Executive shall also
have the right to elect among actuarially equivalent life annuity forms of payment, which election may be made at any time provided that Executive has not elected a lump-sum . Actuarial reductions shall be based on the actual ages of the
Executive and his spouse at the time of retirement. If the Executive is not married at the time of his retirement, actuarial adjustments shall be made as if the Executive had a spouse with the same date of birth as the Executive. In the event that
the Executive elects a form of  

payment other than the automatic 50% joint and survivor annuity or other than a lump sum payment, and remarries subsequent to retirement, the benefits
payable under this Section shall be actuarially adjusted at the time of the Executive s death to reflect the age of the subsequent spouse. If the Executive elects a lump sum payment at retirement, no further benefits will be payable under this
Section.      The amount of the monthly retirement benefit as an unreduced 50% joint and survivor annuity shall be equal to the
product of (A) the  Service Percentage  multiplied by (B) the Executive s  Final Average Compensation,  with such product reduced by (C) the total monthly amount of benefits (measured for purposes of this
offset as if the Executive elected a 50% joint and survivor annuity payable as of the date benefits commence under this Agreement) provided to or in respect of the Executive under all tax-qualified retirement plans, but not including payments from
the Mellon Financial Corporation 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan  or any successor plan .      The Executive shall be fully
vested in the Supplemental Retirement Benefit provided herein after five full years of vesting service with the Company (taking into account the additional service credit provided in 2(a) above. The Executive will also be fully vested in the
Supplemental Retirement Benefit upon a termination by the Corporation other than for Cause or Constructive Discharge. If the Executive is terminated prior to such time for any reason other than Death, Retirement (as defined in the Company s tax
qualified retirement plan), termination by the Corporation other than for Cause or Constructive Discharge, he shall forfeit his right to receive the Supplemental Retirement Benefit.       Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of benefit hereunder which is equal to the maximum life annuity to which Executive would be
entitled under the terms of the Mellon Bank Retirement Plan, or successor thereto, ( MBRP ) without regard to the application of the compensation limitation imposed by IRC Section 401(a)(17) or the benefit limitation imposed by IRC
Section 415, less the maximum life annuity to which Executive is entitled under the MBRP, shall be payable in accordance with the Time and Form of Payment provisions of the Mellon Bank IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan and the Mellon Bank
Benefit Restoration Plan (the Supplemental Plans ).       The Executive shall elect, on or before December 31,
 2008 , the form of payment of his Supplemental Retirement Benefit; provided, however, that no such amounts so elected in  2008  may be received in  2008 . In the event that the Executive elects a form of payment of his Supplemental
Retirement Benefits which provides for payments to continue after his death and the Executive dies without having received all payments of Supplemental Retirement Benefits that may be payable hereunder, then the unpaid balance of such benefits shall
be paid in accordance with the form of payment elected by the Executive. Any such remaining payments shall be made to the Executive s beneficiary provided under the Supplemental Plans, subject to any contrary written instructions from the
Executive designating a different beneficiary for such payments.      The Executive may also elect, on or before
December 31,  2008 , and  thereafter  prior to the commencement of Supplemental Retirement Benefit payments  (but if an annuity form of payment had previously been elected, subject to  not less than 12 months  advance
written notice  and to the five year deferral of payment from when the first annuity payment otherwise would have been made pursuant to a prior annuity form of payment election),  to have the lump sum value of the Supplemental Retirement
Benefit to which the Executive would otherwise be entitled applied to the purchase of a single premium annuity in a form and from an issuer selected or concurred in by the Executive. In the event of such an election by the Executive, the sole
responsibilities of the  
       
   - 2 -   

Company shall be to apply the amount of the lump sum value of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit to the purchase of the annuity selected or concurred in by
the Executive and the distribution of such annuity to the Executive. Thereafter, the Executive shall look solely to the issuer of the annuity for payment on account of or in connection with the Supplemental Retirement Benefit and agrees that the
Company and its affiliates, and each of their officers, directors and employees, shall have no further liability in respect of the Supplemental Retirement Benefit or by reason of the application of the lump sum value as elected by the Executive or
the selection of the form or issuer of the annuity.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Executive  be
deemed to be retired, or to have elected to commence retirement benefits, for purposes of any separation pay plan  while the Executive is entitled to separation payments because his employment was terminated without Cause or as a result of
Constructive Discharge or due to disability (the  Continuing Payments ).      For purposes of this Supplemental
Retirement Benefit:      (i)  Service Percentage  means 2% for each full year of the Executive s employment with
the Company (plus the Executive s full or partial years of employment with Wachovia Corporation) commencing on the first date of the Executive s employment with the Company and ending as of the later of (i) the date his active
employment with the Company terminates, or (ii) the last date during any period for which the Executive receives Continuing Payments, plus 2% for each full year, if any, that the Executive receives Continuing Payments (with such percentage
pro-rated for the partial contract year in which such final termination of the Executive s employment occurs or in which such final payments under Paragraph 6(a) or 6(b) hereof are made, whichever shall be applicable); plus 2% for either the
partial year in which such final termination of the Executive s employment occurs or the partial year in which such final Continuing Payments are made, whichever shall be applicable (with such 2% pro-rated for such partial year).      (ii)  Final Average Compensation  means one-twelfth (1/12th) of the sum of the Executive s Base Salary paid and the
Cash Bonus Amount of any bonus award earned for the calendar year within the final three (3) full calendar years of the Executive s employment by the Company which produces the highest amount. For purposes of determining Final Average
Compensation (A) Bonus Plan awards shall be attributed to the calendar year in which earned, whether paid in that calendar year or the year following or deferred and (B) any portion of the Executive s Base Salary and bonus award which
is deferred by the Executive under agreements with the Company or under any Company employee benefit plan shall be included for purposes of determining Final Average Compensation.      In the event the Executive s termination of employment is due to death prior to the commencement of the payment of Supplemental
Retirement Benefits under this Exhibit A, and he shall be survived by a spouse, entitlement to Supplemental Retirement Benefits will become fully vested and such spouse shall be entitled to receive a pre-retirement death benefit,  commencing with
the month following the Executive s death and  payable in the form of a lifetime annuity, equal to the benefit that would have been payable had he retired immediately prior to death and elected a 50% joint and survivor annuity, but without
any early payment reductions applicable for payments prior to age 60. If the Executive s spouse at the time of his death is more than four years younger than the Executive, the benefit payable to the survivor shall be reduced to a benefit

- 3 -   

having the same actuarial value as the benefit that would have been payable had the spouse been four years younger than the Executive.      The Executive s entitlement to Supplemental Retirement Benefits shall survive the termination of his employment for reasons other
than Cause or as a result of Constructive Discharge, but only to the extent he is vested as provided above.      2. Except as provided in this
amendment, the Employment Letter is, in all other respects, unchanged and is and shall continue to be in full force and effect, and is hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this amendment, in duplicate, on the dates set forth below.       

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

12/12/08    

Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters  
     
  Date Signed   

Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President  

Executive   

Robert P. Kelly  
     
  Date Signed   
       
   - 4 -   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION         Deferral Election with respect to Supplemental Retirement Benefit        I hereby make the
following election with respect to the Supplemental Retirement Benefit described in my employment letter/agreement.        This election pertains to the
form of payment of the benefit, as indicated below.  Unless otherwise elected, the Supplemental Retirement Benefit is payable in the form of a 50% joint and survivor annuity, unreduced for the actuarial value of the survivor s benefit,
providing a surviving spouse benefit equal to 50% of the benefit provided during your lifetime, except that where your surviving spouse is more than 4 years younger than you are, the survivor benefit will be reduced to one that would be payable if
your spouse was not more than 4 years younger (the  Normal Form ).        

Election of Payout Options*   

Form    
      
     Indicate Selection     

100% Joint   Survivor Annuity    

Lump Sum    

Lump Sum (actuarially reduced) applied to purchase of single premium annuity    

Other form permitted under the Supplemental Plans:    

75% Joint   Survivor Annuity     

Single Life Annuity     

Life Annuity with 120 monthly payments guaranteed     

Changes to the Election can be made and another Form of Payout elected anytime prior to the commencement of benefit payments, so long as the election and change do not involve both one of the
annuity options and one of the Lump Sum Form options. Changes to any Election involving both one of the Annuity options and one of the Lump Sum Form options are restricted as follows:  

(i) such election must be made at least 12 months before the first payment is scheduled to be paid (in the case of annuity payments, above, all payments are to be treated as a single payment)
and may not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the  

election is made; and (ii) the payments with respect to which such election is made must be deferred for a period of not less than five years from the date such payment would otherwise have been
paid (or the date the first amount was scheduled to be paid, in the case of annuity payments, above, which are to be treated as a single payment).  

*  
  Payment will be the actuarial equivalent of the  Normal Form  and will commence (or be made in the case of a lump sum) on the first day of month following the later of
your attainment of age 60 or your separation from service (delayed for six months following your separation from service if you are a  specified employee  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, upon your separation from service, as determined by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation).         

Employee Certification    

I understand that my election is irrevocable and may not be changed except as described above.   

Employee Name (please print)   

Social Security Number    

Employee Signature   

Date    
    If you have questions regarding this election form, please contact Robert M. Perego at (412)234-4840.   
  December 12, 2008   

</EX-10.165>

<EX-10.166>
 12
 dex10166.htm
 FORM OF INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT WITH EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Form of Indemnification Agreement with Executive Officers 

Exhibit 10.166        EXECUTIVE OFFICER        INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT       This INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT is made this                day of
                       (the  Agreement ) by and between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) and
                               ( Indemnitee ).      WHEREAS, Indemnitee is an Executive Officer (as hereinafter defined) of the Company and may also
be serving or may serve in the future in another Position (as hereinafter defined) at an Affiliated Entity or Unaffiliated Entity (each as hereinafter defined);      WHEREAS, in consideration of the Indemnitee acting in the Position or Positions and assuming the responsibilities attendant to the Position or Positions, the Company desires to provide Indemnitee the rights to
indemnification and payment or reimbursement of expenses described below;      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:      Section 1.  Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement:      (a)  Executive
Officer  shall have the meaning of the term  officer  as such term is defined in Rule 16a-1(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      (b)  Expenses  shall include all reasonable out of pocket fees, costs and expenses, including, without limitation,
attorneys  fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types
customarily incurred if Indemnitee is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) in any Proceeding (as hereinafter defined) and, to the extent not prohibited by law, the fees and costs incurred in enforcing
Indemnitee s right to  

indemnification and reimbursement or payment of Expenses under this Agreement.      (c)  Position  is (a) service as a director, officer, partner, trustee, fiduciary, manager or employee of the Company or of
any other corporation, limited liability company, public limited company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, fund or other enterprise as to which the Company beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, at least a majority of
the voting power of equity or membership interests, or in the case of employee benefit plans, is sponsored or maintained by the Company or one of the foregoing (any of the foregoing, an  Affiliated Entity ) or (b) service at the
request of the Company at any time this Agreement is in effect as a director, officer, partner, trustee, fiduciary, manager or employee of a corporation, limited liability company, public limited company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
benefit plan, fund or other enterprise which is not an Affiliated Entity (an  Unaffiliated Entity ),  provided ,  however , that such request for service has been approved in writing in accordance with Code Reports and Permission
(CODE RAP) or a successor process or by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.      (d)  Proceeding  shall mean any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit, proceeding or procedure in which the Indemnitee is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) by
reason of the fact of the Indemnitee s Position or Positions.      Section 2.  Indemnification   General . The Company shall
indemnify, subject to the terms of this Agreement, Indemnitee against all judgments, awards, fines, ERISA excise taxes, penalties, amounts paid in settlement, liabilities and losses and shall pay or reimburse all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee,
subject to the terms of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law if Indemnitee is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) in any Proceeding by reason of the fact of Indemnitee s
Position or Positions, including, without limitation, any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor,  but excluding  any Proceeding initiated by Indemnitee  
       
   - 2 -   

other than (i) Proceedings initiated by Indemnitee which are consented to in advance in writing by the Company and (ii) counterclaims made by
Indemnitee in a Proceeding which directly respond to and negate the affirmative claim made against Indemnitee in such Proceeding. In the event Indemnitee incurs Expenses or settles a Proceeding under circumstances in which the Company would have an
obligation to indemnify Indemnitee for the Expenses or settlement amount, the Company may discharge its indemnification obligation by making payments on behalf of Indemnitee directly to the parties to whom such Expenses or settlement amounts are
owed by Indemnitee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company will also, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and subject to Section 3 below, indemnify, reimburse and pay Indemnitee for Expenses incurred in enforcing an
indemnification, reimbursement or payment right under this Agreement.      Section 3.  Expenses . Subject to the terms of this Agreement,
upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking by Indemnitee to repay Expenses if it shall ultimately be determined pursuant to this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company, the Company shall pay or reimburse, to
the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with a Proceeding in advance of its final disposition. Such payment shall be made within thirty (30) days after the receipt by
the Company of a written request from Indemnitee requesting reimbursement or payment of such Expenses. Such request shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee. The burden of proving that the Company is not liable for reimbursement
or payment of Expenses shall be on the Company.      Section 4.  Limitations . The Company shall not indemnify Indemnitee or pay or
reimburse Indemnitee s Expenses if such indemnification or payment would constitute a  prohibited indemnification payment  under the regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or any successor provisions) or any other
applicable laws, rules or regulations or if the Proceeding alleges (1) claims under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (2) violations of Federal or state insider trading laws or (3) violations of the
Company s Personal Securities Trading Policy with respect to Company securities, unless, in the case of clauses (1), (2) or (3), Indemnitee has been successful on the merits, received the  
       
   - 3 -   

Company s written consent prior to incurring the Expense or, after receiving the Company s written consent to incurring the cost of settlement,
settled the Proceeding.      Section 5.  Standard of Conduct . No claim for indemnification shall be paid by the Company unless the
Company has determined that Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to
believe his or her conduct was unlawful, which is the standard of conduct set forth in Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the  DGCL ) (as such, the  Standard of Conduct , with such Standard of Conduct to be
automatically revised to conform to any successor provision of the DGCL) except that no indemnification shall be made with respect to any Proceeding by or in right of the Company as to which the Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to
the Company, except as determined by the court or other tribunal adjudicating the Proceeding. Unless ordered by a court or other tribunal, such determinations of whether the Standard of Conduct has been satisfied shall be made by (1) a majority
vote of the directors of the Company who are not parties to the Proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (2) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if
there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) by stockholders of the Company. Indemnitee shall be deemed to have met the Standard of Conduct if the determination is not
made by the Company within sixty days of receipt by the General Counsel of a written request by Indemnitee for indemnity.      Section 6.
 Contribution.  If the full indemnification and payment or reimbursement of Expenses provided by this Agreement may not be paid to Indemnitee because it has been finally adjudicated that such indemnification or payment or reimbursement of
Expenses incurred by Indemnitee is prohibited by Delaware or other law, or if it has been determined as provided above that the Standard of Conduct has not been met, and if, and to the extent the Indemnitee is not entitled to coverage under the
Company s directors and officers liability insurance policy, then in respect of any such actual or threatened Proceeding in which the Company or an Affiliated Entity is jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined  
       
   - 4 -   

in such Proceeding), as determined by (1) a majority vote of the directors of the Company who are not parties to the Proceeding, even though less than a
quorum, or (2) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a
written opinion, or (4) by stockholders of the Company, the Company shall contribute to the amount of loss, liability or Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in such proportion as appropriate to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the
Company and any Affiliated Entity on the one hand and Indemnitee on the other hand from the transaction from which such Proceeding arose and (ii) the relative fault of the Company, any Affiliated Entity or Unaffiliated Entity, including other
persons indemnified by the Company on the one hand, and Indemnitee on the other hand in connection with the events which resulted in such Proceeding, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company, any
Affiliated Entity or Unaffiliated Entity, including other persons indemnified by the Company, on the one hand, and of Indemnitee on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the parties  relative intent, knowledge,
access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent the circumstances resulting in such Proceeding. The Company acknowledges that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6 were determined by pro rata
allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take into account the foregoing equitable considerations.      Section 7.
 Defense of Claim.  If any Proceeding asserted or commenced against Indemnitee is also asserted or commenced against the Company or an Affiliated Entity, the Company or the Affiliated Entity shall be entitled, except as otherwise provided
herein below, to assume the defense thereof. After notice from the Company or any Affiliated Entity to Indemnitee of its election to assume the defense of any such Proceeding, Indemnitee shall have the right to employ Indemnitee s own counsel
in such Proceeding, but the Expenses of such counsel incurred after notice from the Company or any Affiliated Entity to Indemnitee of its assumption of the defense thereof shall be at the expense of Indemnitee and the Company shall not be obligated
to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any Expenses subsequently incurred by Indemnitee in connection therewith other than reasonable costs of investigation and reasonable travel and lodging expenses arising out of Indemnitee s  
       
   - 5 -   

participation in the defense of such Proceeding, unless (i) otherwise notified by the Company, (ii) Indemnitee s counsel shall have reasonably
concluded and so notified the Company that there is a conflict of interest between the Company or any Affiliated Entity and Indemnitee in the conduct of defense of such Proceeding, or (iii) the Company or any Affiliated Entity shall not in fact
have employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, in any of which cases the Expenses of Indemnitee in such Proceeding shall be reimbursed or paid by the Company. The Company or any Affiliated Entity shall not be entitled to assume the
defense of any Proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Company by its stockholders or as to which Indemnitee s counsel shall have made the conclusion set forth in clause (ii) of the preceding sentence of this Section 7.   
  Section 8.  Duration of Agreement . This Agreement shall continue for so long as Indemnitee may be subject to any possible Proceeding by reason
of the fact of Indemnitee s Position or Positions, whether or not Indemnitee ceases to hold such Position or Positions.      Section 9.
 Confidentiality . Except as required by law or as otherwise becomes public (other than in violation of this Agreement) or is communicated to Indemnitee s counsel or to Indemnitee s or the Company s insurer, in seeking
indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses hereunder, Indemnitee agrees to keep confidential any information that arises in connection with this Agreement, including but not limited to, claims for indemnification or payment or
reimbursement of Expenses, amounts paid or payable under this Agreement and any communications between the Indemnitee and the Company.      Section 10.  Applicability to Other Indemnification Provisions . This Agreement is entered into pursuant to Section 145(f) of the DGCL and to the fullest extent permitted by law shall be in addition to indemnification and
reimbursement or payment of Expenses provided by the DGCL. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company shall apply this Agreement, which is substantially consistent with the Company s Indemnification Policy as in effect on the date
hereof, in considering requests for indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses under its Indemnification Policy, certificate of incorporation, by-laws, or any other agreement or undertaking of the Company or similar constituent
documents of an Affiliated Entity that provides rights to indemnification or reimbursement or payment  
       
   - 6 -   

of Expenses ( Alternate Indemnification Provisions ). By entering into this Agreement, the parties agree that if there is an existing
Indemnification Agreement by and between Mellon Financial Corporation and Indemnitee which was assumed by the Company by operation of law and pursuant to the 2006 merger agreement entered into by the Company, Mellon Financial Corporation and The
Bank of New York Company, Inc., such agreement is hereby terminated insofar as it relates to actions taken by Indemnitee after the execution of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, should there be any differences between the Company s
Indemnification Policy and this Agreement, this Agreement will govern.      Section 11.  No Duplication of Payments . The Company shall
indemnify and pay or reimburse Expenses of the Indemnitee in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,  provided ,  however , that the Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment to Indemnitee under this
Agreement to the extent that Indemnitee (i) is otherwise entitled to receive reimbursement or payment of amounts otherwise payable hereunder from an Unaffiliated Entity (including insurance maintained by an Unaffiliated Entity) as a result of
Indemnitee s Position or Positions at or with respect to an Unaffiliated Entity, (ii) receives payment or reimbursement under an insurance policy maintained by the Company or by or out of a fund created by the Company and under the control
of a trustee or otherwise, or (iii) receives payment from other sources provided by the Company. If Indemnitee has a right of recovery from an Unaffiliated Entity (including insurance maintained by the Unaffiliated Entity), Indemnitee shall
take all actions reasonably necessary to recover payment (or insurance) from the Unaffiliated Entity before seeking payment from the Company under this Agreement, including initiating a civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit,
proceeding or procedure;  provided ,  however , that to the extent recovery of such payment requires meeting a prior deductible or other financial outlay, such payment or financial outlay shall be deemed to be an Expense hereunder.
     Section 12.  Insurance . The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and the Indemnitee against any
Expense, liability or loss under Delaware law.      Section 13.  Subrogation . In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company
shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee  
       
   - 7 -   

under any insurance policy or otherwise. Indemnitee shall execute all documents reasonably required and shall do everything reasonably necessary to secure
such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company to effectively bring suit to enforce such rights.      Section 14.  Notice by Indemnitee . Indemnitee shall promptly notify the Company in writing in accordance with Section 20 upon the earlier of (a) becoming aware of a Proceeding where indemnity or reimbursement or payment of
Expenses may be sought or (b) receiving or being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information, inquiry or other document relating to any Proceeding which may be subject to indemnification or reimbursement or
payment of Expenses covered hereunder. As a condition to indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses, any demand for payment by Indemnitee hereunder shall be in writing.      Section 15.  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable as applied to any
particular Proceeding or in any particular jurisdiction, for any reason, such circumstances shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, inoperative or unenforceable in any other distinguishable Proceeding or
jurisdiction, or of rendering any other provision or provisions herein contained invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. The invalidity, inoperability or unenforceability of any one or more phrases, sentences, clauses or
sections contained in this Agreement shall not affect any other remaining part of this Agreement.      Section 16.  Binding Effect . This
Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, Indemnitee and Indemnitee s heirs, personal representatives, executors and administrators and upon the Company and its successors and assigns.      Section 17.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an
original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.      Section 18.  Headings . The headings of the
paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not  
       
   - 8 -   

be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.      Section 19.  Modification and Waiver . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by
both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.   
  Section 20.  Notices . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been
duly given if (i) delivered by hand, on the date delivered, (ii) mailed by certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is mailed or (iii) sent by guaranteed overnight
courier service, with postage prepaid, on the business day after the date on which it is sent:       

(a)  
  If to Indemnitee, to the address set forth on the signature page of this Agreement;         

(b)  
  If to the Company, to:        The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation      One Wall Street      New York, NY 10286      Attention: General Counsel      with copies to:      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation      One Wall Street      New York, NY 10286
     Attention: Corporate Secretary      or to such
other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company or to the Company by Indemnitee, as the case may be.      Section 21.
 Governing Law . The parties agree that this Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.         
   - 9 -   

Section 22.  Venue . Any Proceeding relating to or arising from this Agreement, including without
limitation, any Proceeding regarding indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses arising out of this Agreement, shall only be brought and heard in the Chancery Court in and for the State of Delaware, and may not be brought in any other
judicial forum.         
   - 10 -   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the day and year first above
written.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

[NAME]     [TITLE]    

AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED BY:   

Name: [Insert Name of Indemnitee]     Address: [Insert
Address of Indemnitee]    
       
   - 11 -   

</EX-10.166>

<EX-10.167>
 13
 dex10167.htm
 FORM OF INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT WITH DIRECTORS OF BNY MELLON CORPORATION

Form of Indemnification Agreement with Directors of BNY Mellon Corporation 

Exhibit 10.167        DIRECTOR        INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT        This INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT is made this            day of
                       (the  Agreement ) by and between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) and
                               ( Indemnitee ).      WHEREAS, Indemnitee is a Director of the Company and may also be serving or may serve in the future in another Position (as hereinafter defined) at an
Affiliated Entity (as hereinafter defined);      WHEREAS, in consideration of the Indemnitee acting in the Position or Positions and assuming
the responsibilities attendant to the Position or Positions, the Company desires to provide Indemnitee the rights to indemnification and payment or reimbursement of expenses described below;      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,
the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:      Section 1.  Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement:
     (a)  Expenses  shall include all reasonable out of pocket fees, costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, attorneys  fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the
types customarily incurred if Indemnitee is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or a witness) in any Proceeding (as hereinafter defined) and, to the extent not prohibited by law, the fees and costs incurred in enforcing
Indemnitee s right to indemnification and reimbursement or payment of Expenses under this Agreement.      (b)
 Position  is (a) service as a director of the Company or Company advisory board or of any other corporation, limited liability company, public limited company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee  

benefit plan, fund or other enterprise as to which the Company beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, at least a majority of the voting power of equity
or membership interests, or in the case of employee benefit plans, is sponsored or maintained by the Company or one of the foregoing (any of the foregoing, an  Affiliated Entity ).      (c)  Proceeding  shall mean any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit, proceeding or procedure in which
the Indemnitee is involved in any manner including, without limitation, as a party or a witness by reason of the fact of the Indemnitee s Position or Positions.      Section 2.  Indemnification   General . The Company shall indemnify, subject to the terms of this Agreement, Indemnitee against all judgments, awards, fines, ERISA excise taxes, penalties, amounts paid in
settlement, liabilities and losses and shall pay or reimburse all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee, subject to the terms of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law if Indemnitee is involved in any manner (including, without
limitation, as a party or a witness) in any Proceeding by reason of the fact of Indemnitee s Position or Positions, including, without limitation, any Proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor,  but
excluding  any Proceeding initiated by Indemnitee other than (i) Proceedings initiated by Indemnitee which are consented to in advance in writing by the Company and (ii) counterclaims made by Indemnitee in a Proceeding which directly
respond to and negate the affirmative claim made against Indemnitee in such Proceeding. In the event Indemnitee incurs Expenses or settles a Proceeding under circumstances in which the Company would have an obligation to indemnify Indemnitee for the
Expenses or settlement amount, the Company may discharge its indemnification obligation by making payments on behalf of Indemnitee directly to the parties to whom such Expenses or settlement amounts are owed by Indemnitee. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Company will also, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and subject to Section 3 below, indemnify, reimburse and pay Indemnitee for Expenses incurred in enforcing an indemnification, reimbursement or payment right
under this Agreement.      Section 3.  Expenses . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, upon receipt by the Company of an undertaking by
Indemnitee to repay Expenses if it shall ultimately be  
       
   - 2 -   

determined pursuant to this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company, the Company shall pay or reimburse, to the fullest
extent permitted by Delaware law, Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with a Proceeding in advance of its final disposition. Such payment shall be made within thirty (30) days after the receipt by the Company
of a written request from Indemnitee requesting reimbursement or payment of such Expenses. Such request shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee. The burden of proving that the Company is not liable for reimbursement or payment
of Expenses shall be on the Company.      Section 4.  Limitations . The Company shall not indemnify Indemnitee or pay or reimburse
Indemnitee s Expenses if such indemnification or payment would constitute a  prohibited indemnification payment  under the regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (or any successor provisions) or any other applicable
laws, rules or regulations or if the Proceeding alleges (1) claims under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or (2) violations of Federal or state insider trading laws, unless, in the case of clauses
(1) or (2), Indemnitee has been successful on the merits, received the Company s written consent prior to incurring the Expense or, after receiving the Company s written consent to incurring the cost of settlement, settled the
Proceeding.      Section 5.  Standard of Conduct . No claim for indemnification shall be paid by the Company unless the Company has
determined that Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his
or her conduct was unlawful, which is the standard of conduct set forth in Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the  DGCL ) (as such, the  Standard of Conduct , with such Standard of Conduct to be
automatically revised to conform to any successor provision of the DGCL) except that no indemnification shall be made with respect to any Proceeding by or in right of the Company as to which the Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to
the Company, except as determined by the court or other tribunal adjudicating the Proceeding. Unless ordered by a court or other tribunal, such determinations of whether the Standard of Conduct has been  
       
   - 3 -   

satisfied shall be made by (1) a majority vote of the directors of the Company who are not parties to the Proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or
(2) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion,
or (4) by stockholders of the Company. Indemnitee shall be deemed to have met the Standard of Conduct if the determination is not made by the Company within sixty days of receipt by the General Counsel of a written request by Indemnitee for
indemnity.      Section 6.  Contribution . If the full indemnification and payment or reimbursement of Expenses provided by this Agreement
may not be paid to Indemnitee because it has been finally adjudicated that such indemnification or payment or reimbursement of Expenses incurred by Indemnitee is prohibited by Delaware or other law, or if it has been determined as provided above
that the Standard of Conduct has not been met, and if, and to the extent the Indemnitee is not entitled to coverage under the Company s directors and officers liability insurance policy, then in respect of any such actual or threatened
Proceeding in which the Company or an Affiliated Entity is jointly liable with Indemnitee (or would be if joined in such Proceeding), as determined by (1) a majority vote of the directors of the Company who are not parties to the Proceeding,
even though less than a quorum, or (2) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (3) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent
legal counsel in a written opinion, or (4) by stockholders of the Company, the Company shall contribute to the amount of loss, liability or Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in such proportion as appropriate to reflect (i) the relative
benefits received by the Company and any Affiliated Entity on the one hand and Indemnitee on the other hand from the transaction from which such Proceeding arose and (ii) the relative fault of the Company or Affiliated Entity, including other
persons indemnified by the Company on the one hand, and Indemnitee on the other hand in connection with the events which resulted in such Proceeding, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company or any
Affiliated Entity, including other persons indemnified by the Company, on the one hand, and of Indemnitee on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the parties  relative intent,  
       
   - 4 -   

knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent the circumstances resulting in such Proceeding. The Company acknowledges that it would
not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6 were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take into account the foregoing equitable considerations.      Section 7.  Defense of Claim . If any Proceeding asserted or commenced against Indemnitee is also asserted or commenced against the Company or an
Affiliated Entity, the Company or the Affiliated Entity shall be entitled, except as otherwise provided herein below, to assume the defense thereof. After notice from the Company or any Affiliated Entity to Indemnitee of its election to assume the
defense of any such Proceeding, Indemnitee shall have the right to employ Indemnitee s own counsel in such Proceeding, but the Expenses of such counsel incurred after notice from the Company or any Affiliated Entity to Indemnitee of its
assumption of the defense thereof shall be at the expense of Indemnitee and the Company shall not be obligated to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any Expenses subsequently incurred by Indemnitee in connection therewith other than reasonable
costs of investigation and reasonable travel and lodging expenses arising out of Indemnitee s participation in the defense of such Proceeding, unless (i) otherwise notified by the Company, (ii) Indemnitee s counsel shall have
reasonably concluded and so notified the Company that there is a conflict of interest between the Company or any Affiliated Entity and Indemnitee in the conduct of defense of such Proceeding, or (iii) the Company or any Affiliated Entity shall
not in fact have employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, in any of which cases the Expenses of Indemnitee in such Proceeding shall be reimbursed or paid by the Company. The Company or any Affiliated Entity shall not be entitled to
assume the defense of any Proceeding brought by or on behalf of the Company by its stockholders or as to which Indemnitee s counsel shall have made the conclusion set forth in clause (ii) of the preceding sentence of this Section 7.
     Section 8.  Duration of Agreement . This Agreement shall continue for so long as Indemnitee may be subject to any possible Proceeding
by reason of the fact of Indemnitee s Position or Positions, whether or not Indemnitee ceases to hold such Position or Positions.      Section 9.  Confidentiality . Except as required by law or as otherwise becomes public (other than in violation of this  
       
   - 5 -   

Agreement) or is communicated to Indemnitee s counsel or to Indemnitee s or the Company s insurer, in seeking indemnification or reimbursement
or payment of Expenses hereunder, Indemnitee agrees to keep confidential any information that arises in connection with this Agreement, including but not limited to, claims for indemnification or payment or reimbursement of Expenses, amounts paid or
payable under this Agreement and any communications between the Indemnitee and the Company.      Section 10.  Applicability to Other
Indemnification Provisions . This Agreement is entered into pursuant to Section 145(f) of the DGCL and to the fullest extent permitted by law shall be in addition to indemnification and reimbursement or payment of Expenses provided by the
DGCL. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company shall apply this Agreement, which is substantially consistent with the Company s Indemnification Policy as in effect on the date hereof, in considering requests for indemnification or
reimbursement or payment of Expenses under its Indemnification Policy, certificate of incorporation, by-laws, or any other agreement or undertaking of the Company or similar constituent documents of an Affiliated Entity that provides rights to
indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses. By entering into this Agreement, the parties agree that if there is an existing Indemnification Agreement by and between Mellon Financial Corporation and Indemnitee which was assumed by the
Company by operation of law and pursuant to the 2006 merger agreement entered into by the Company, Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Company, Inc., such agreement is hereby terminated insofar as it relates to actions taken by
Indemnitee after the execution of this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, should there be any differences between the Company s Indemnification Policy and this Agreement, this Agreement will govern.      Section 11.  No Duplication of Payments . The Company shall indemnify and pay or reimburse Expenses of the Indemnitee in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement,  provided ,  however , that the Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment to Indemnitee to the extent that Indemnitee (i) has previously received payment or reimbursement under
an insurance policy maintained by the Company or by or out of a fund created by the Company and under the control of a trustee or otherwise, or (ii) has previously received payment from other sources provided by the Company.         
   - 6 -   

Section 12.  Insurance . The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and
the Indemnitee against any Expense, liability or loss under Delaware law.      Section 13.  Subrogation . In the event of payment under
this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee under any insurance policy held by the Company or an Affiliated Entity or otherwise. Indemnitee shall execute all documents
reasonably required and shall do everything reasonably necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company to effectively bring suit to enforce such rights.      Section 14.  Notice by Indemnitee . Indemnitee shall promptly notify the Company in writing in accordance with Section 20 upon the earlier of
(a) becoming aware of a Proceeding where indemnity or reimbursement or payment of Expenses may be sought or (b) receiving or being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information, inquiry or other document
relating to any Proceeding which may be subject to indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses covered hereunder. As a condition to indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses, any demand for payment by Indemnitee hereunder
shall be in writing.      Section 15.  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, inoperative or
unenforceable as applied to any particular Proceeding or in any particular jurisdiction, for any reason, such circumstances shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question invalid, inoperative or unenforceable in any other
distinguishable Proceeding or jurisdiction, or of rendering any other provision or provisions herein contained invalid, inoperative or unenforceable to any extent whatsoever. The invalidity, inoperability or unenforceability of any one or more
phrases, sentences, clauses or sections contained in this Agreement shall not affect any other remaining part of this Agreement.      Section
16.  Binding Effect . This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, Indemnitee and Indemnitee s heirs, personal representatives, executors and administrators and upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
        
   - 7 -   

Section 17.  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of
which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.      Section
18.  Headings . The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof.      Section 19.  Modification and Waiver . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by
both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.   
  Section 20.  Notices . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been
duly given if (i) delivered by hand, on the date delivered, (ii) mailed by certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is mailed or (iii) sent by guaranteed overnight
courier service, with postage prepaid, on the business day after the date on which it is sent:       

(a)  
  If to Indemnitee, to the address set forth on the signature page of this Agreement;         

(b)  
  If to the Company, to:        The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation      One Wall Street      New York, NY 10286      Attention: General Counsel      with copies to:      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation      One Wall Street      New York, NY 10286
     Attention: Corporate Secretary         
   - 8 -   

or to such other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company or to the Company by Indemnitee, as the
case may be.      Section 21.  Governing Law . The parties agree that this Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in
accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.      Section 22.  Venue . Any Proceeding relating to or arising from this Agreement,
including without limitation, any Proceeding regarding indemnification or reimbursement or payment of Expenses arising out of this Agreement, shall only be brought and heard in the Chancery Court in and for the State of Delaware, and may not be
brought in any other judicial forum.         
   - 9 -   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the day and year first above
written.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

[NAME]     [TITLE]    

AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED BY:   

Name: [Insert Name of Indemnitee]     Address: [Insert
Address of Indemnitee]    
       
   - 10 -   

</EX-10.167>

<EX-10.168>
 14
 dex10168.htm
 AMENDMENT TO CHANGE IN CONTROL LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & MR. HASSELL

Amendment to Change in Control Letter Agreement between BNY Mellon   Mr. Hassell 

Exhibit 10.168       AMENDMENT TO      CHANGE IN CONTROL LETTER AGREEMENT      This amendment (the  Amendment ) is to the change in control severance letter between Gerald L. Hassell (the  Executive ) and The
Bank of New York Company, Inc., dated July 11, 2000 (the  Agreement ).      WHEREAS, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
(the  Company ), as successor in interest to The Bank of New York Company, Inc., desires to implement certain amendments to the Agreement in order to avoid certain adverse federal income tax consequences to the Executive under the
Agreement as a result of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and      WHEREAS, the Agreement authorizes the
Company and the Executive to amend or revise the terms of the Agreement.      NOW, THEREFORE, effective as of January 1, 2009, the
Agreement is hereby amended as follows:      Section 1. A new Section 17 entitled  Code Section 409A 
is added to the Agreement to read as follows:       
    (i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or elsewhere, if (A) any severance payments or benefits provided for in this Agreement or otherwise both constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of
Section 409A and cannot be paid or provided in the manner otherwise provided without subjecting you to  additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A and (B) you are a  specified employee  as determined
pursuant to Section 409A as of the date of your  separation from service  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)), then any such payment that is payable during the first six months following your  separation from
service  shall be paid to you in a lump sum on the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which your  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at your death. In addition, any severance
payment or benefit payable upon a termination of employment that represents a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A shall only be paid, delivered, settled or exercised upon a  separation from
service .     (ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or elsewhere, any payment or benefit hereunder
that is exempt from Section 409A pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(A) or (C) shall be paid or provided to you only to the extent that the expenses are not incurred, or the benefits are not provided, beyond the
last day of the second taxable year following the taxable year in which the  separation from service  occurs; and provided further that such expenses are reimbursed no later than the last day of the third taxable year following the taxable
year in which the  separation from service  occurs. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to the extent any expense reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit under the Agreement is determined to be subject to

Section 409A, the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement, or the provision of any in-kind benefit, in one calendar year shall not affect
the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year, in no event shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you incurred such expenses, and in no event shall any right
to reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.      (iii)
For the purposes of this Agreement, each payment made pursuant to Sections 5(iii)(B) and 5(iv) shall be deemed to be separate payments, amounts payable under Section 5 of this Agreement shall be deemed not to be a  deferral of
compensation  subject to Section 409A to the extent provided in the exceptions in Treasury Regulation Sections 1.409A-1(b)(4) ( short-term deferrals ) and (b)(9) ( separation pay plans,  including the exception under
subparagraph (iii)) and other applicable provisions of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1 through A-6.     Section 2.
 Effectiveness of Amendment . This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof.      Section 3.  Definitions .
Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement.      Section 4.
 Other Provisions Unaffected . Except as modified by this Amendment, the existing provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Executive have executed this Amendment as of the
11   th    day of December, 2008.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/s/ Lisa B. Peters    
 
  By:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President   

Gerald L. Hassell   

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell    

2   

</EX-10.168>

<EX-10.169>
 15
 dex10169.htm
 AMENDMENT TO TRANSITION AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & GERALD L. HASSELL

Amendment to Transition Agreement between BNY Mellon   Gerald L. Hassell 

Exhibit 10.169       December     , 2008      Mr. Gerald L. Hassell      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation      The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
         One Wall Street      New York, New York
10286       

Re:  
   Transition Agreement Amendment         Dear Gerald:      The purpose of this letter is to amend the terms of the agreement between you and The Bank of New York Company, Inc., dated June 25, 2007 (the
  Transition Agreement  ) to provide for necessary changes to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. If you agree, this letter will amend the Transition Agreement.      You agree that Section 4(j) of the Transition Agreement is restated in its entirety to read as follows:      (j)  Section 409A of the Code . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or elsewhere, if you are a
 specified employee  as determined pursuant to Section 409A of the Code as of the date of your  separation from service  (within the meaning of Final Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)) and if any payment or benefit provided
for in this Agreement or otherwise both (x) constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A and (y) cannot be paid or provided in the manner otherwise provided without subjecting you to
 additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A, then any such payment or benefit that is payable during the first six months following your  separation from service  shall be paid or provided to you in a cash
lump-sum on the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which your  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at your death. In addition, any payment or benefit due upon a termination of your
employment that represents a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A shall only be paid or provided to you upon a  separation from service . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Agreement or elsewhere, any payment or benefit under this Agreement or otherwise that is exempt from Section 409A pursuant to Final Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(A) or (C) shall be paid or provided to you only to the extent that
the  

expenses are not incurred, or the benefits are not provided, beyond the last day of your second taxable year following your taxable year in which the
 separation from service  occurs; and provided further that such expenses are reimbursed no later than the last day of your third taxable year following the taxable year in which your  separation from service  occurs. Except
as otherwise expressly provided herein, to the extent any reimbursement or in-kind benefit under this Agreement constitutes a deferral of compensation, the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement (or in-kind benefits to be provided)
in one calendar year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement )or in-kind benefits to be provided) in any other taxable year, in no event shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar
year in which you incurred such expenses, and in no event shall any right to reimbursement (or in-kind benefit) be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. For the purposes of this Agreement, each payment and benefit made hereunder
shall be deemed to be a separate payment.      The terms of the Transition Agreement not amended herein shall remain in force and are not
affected by this letter. This letter will be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. For ease of reference, any capitalized terms used but not defined in this
letter are used with the same meaning as under the Transition Agreement.      If the terms of this letter are acceptable to you, please sign
both copies of this letter indicating your agreement to its terms, keep one signed copy of the letter for yourself and return the other signed copy to me. This letter may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an
original. A signature transmitted by facsimile will be deemed an original signature.        

Sincerely,   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

/s/ Lisa B. Peters    
 
  Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President   
 
   Accepted and Agreed:       
       
   2   

</EX-10.169>

<EX-10.170>
 16
 dex10170.htm
 AMENDMENT TO CHANGE IN CONTROL LETTER AGREEMENT BETWEEN BNY MELLON & MR. GIBBONS

Amendment to Change in Control Letter Agreement between BNY Mellon   Mr. Gibbons 

Exhibit 10.170       AMENDMENT TO      CHANGE IN CONTROL LETTER AGREEMENT      This amendment (the  Amendment ) is to the change in control severance letter between Thomas P. Gibbons (the  Executive ) and The
Bank of New York Company, Inc., dated July 11, 2000 (the  Agreement ).      WHEREAS, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
(the  Company ), as successor in interest to The Bank of New York Company, Inc., desires to implement certain amendments to the Agreement in order to avoid certain adverse federal income tax consequences to the Executive under the
Agreement as a result of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and      WHEREAS, the Agreement authorizes the
Company and the Executive to amend or revise the terms of the Agreement.      NOW, THEREFORE, effective as of January 1, 2009, the
Agreement is hereby amended as follows:      Section 1. A new Section 17 entitled  Code Section 409A 
is added to the Agreement to read as follows:       
    (i)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or elsewhere, if (A) any severance payments or benefits provided for in this Agreement or otherwise both constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of
Section 409A and cannot be paid or provided in the manner otherwise provided without subjecting you to  additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A and (B) you are a  specified employee  as determined
pursuant to Section 409A as of the date of your  separation from service  (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)), then any such payment that is payable during the first six months following your  separation from
service  shall be paid to you in a lump sum on the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which your  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at your death. In addition, any severance
payment or benefit payable upon a termination of employment that represents a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A shall only be paid, delivered, settled or exercised upon a  separation from
service .     (ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or elsewhere, any payment or benefit hereunder
that is exempt from Section 409A pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v)(A) or (C) shall be paid or provided to you only to the extent that the expenses are not incurred, or the benefits are not provided, beyond the
last day of the second taxable year following the taxable year in which the  separation from service  occurs; and provided further that such expenses are reimbursed no later than the last day of the third taxable year following the taxable
year in which the  separation from service  occurs. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to the extent any expense reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit under the Agreement is determined to be subject to

Section 409A, the amount of any such expenses eligible for reimbursement, or the provision of any in-kind benefit, in one calendar year shall not affect
the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year, in no event shall any expenses be reimbursed after the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you incurred such expenses, and in no event shall any right
to reimbursement or the provision of any in-kind benefit be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.      (iii)
For the purposes of this Agreement, each payment made pursuant to Sections 5(iii)(B) and 5(iv) shall be deemed to be separate payments, amounts payable under Section 5 of this Agreement shall be deemed not to be a  deferral of
compensation  subject to Section 409A to the extent provided in the exceptions in Treasury Regulation Sections 1.409A-1(b)(4) ( short-term deferrals ) and (b)(9) ( separation pay plans,  including the exception under
subparagraph (iii)) and other applicable provisions of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1 through A-6.     Section 2.
 Effectiveness of Amendment . This Amendment shall become effective on the date hereof.      Section 3.  Definitions .
Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement.      Section 4.
 Other Provisions Unaffected . Except as modified by this Amendment, the existing provisions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Executive have executed this Amendment as of the
11   th    day of December, 2008.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/s/ Lisa B. Peters    
 
  By:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President   

Thomas P. Gibbons   

/s/ Thomas P. Gibbons    

2   

</EX-10.170>

<EX-10.171>
 17
 dex10171.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE MELLON BANK IRC SEC. 401(A)(17) PLAN

Amendment to the Mellon Bank IRC Sec. 401(a)(17) Plan 

Exhibit 10.171       Amendment to the Mellon Bank      IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan and       Mellon Bank Benefit Restoration Plan (together the  Plans )       To assure documentary
compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and clarify coordination with various other non-qualified programs so as to avoid unintended and impermissible substitutions or accelerations because of offsets by benefits under such programs,
the Plans are hereby amended as follows:      1. Other than with respect to  grandfathered benefits  (as previously defined in the
December 14, 2007 Designation of Time and Form of Payment), if any, employees who have an employment contract originally with Mellon Bank Corporation or Mellon Financial Corporation (or any related entity) which continues to provide for
Supplemental Retirement Benefits which would include the benefits otherwise paid hereunder, will not be entitled to coverage by, or the payment of benefits from, the Plans.      2. In the calculation of the Offset for Certain Benefits Payable under the Senior Executive Life Insurance Plan, the  Participant s interest in
the cash value of the Policies  shall be determined as of the Participant s termination of employment (and shall not be subject to variation on the basis of any election or action of the Participant or Mellon Bank).       

Date:  
     
    December 22, 2008   

/s/ Lisa B. Peters    

Lisa B. Peters   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

</EX-10.171>

<EX-10.172>
 18
 dex10172.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE MELLON EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMP. PLAN FOR SENIOR OFFICERS

Amendment to the Mellon Executive Deferred Comp. Plan for Senior Officers 

Exhibit 10.172       AMENDMENT TO THE      MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION      EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN      FOR SENIOR OFFICERS (POST 12/31/04)      EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2005      (the
 Plan )      In order to assure documentary compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and clarify coordination with
various other non-qualified programs so as to avoid unintended and impermissible substitutions or accelerations because of offsets by benefits under such programs and in accordance with the reservation of the right to amend the Plan under Article
IX, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:      1. Participants who have an employment contract originally with Mellon Bank Corporation or
Mellon Financial Corporation (or any related entity) which continues to provide for Supplemental Retirement Benefits which include the benefits otherwise paid under Section 4.7 of the Plan, will not be entitled to coverage by, or payment of
benefits under, Section 4.7 of the Plan; provided, however, that solely for purposes of determining whether such Participants are entitled to a Section 4.7  grandfathered benefit  under the terms of the Mellon Financial
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Senior Officers as it existed prior to the effective date of the Plan, the calculation of the overall Section 4.7 benefit payable under the combined two plans shall be made as if such Participants had
participated in Section 4.7 of the Plan.      2. In the calculation of the reduction of a Participant s Section 4.7 Retirement
Plan Make-Up, the  Participant s interest in the cash value of the Policies  shall be determined as of the Participant s termination of employment (and shall not be subject to any variation on the basis of any election or action
of the Participant or the Company).       

Date:  
     
    December 22, 2008   

/s/ Lisa B. Peters    

Lisa B. Peters   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

</EX-10.172>

<EX-10.173>
 19
 dex10173.htm
 AMENDMENT TO THE MELLON FINANCIAL EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMP. PLAN

Amendment to the Mellon Financial Executive Deferred Comp. Plan 

Exhibit 10.173       AMENDMENT TO THE      MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION      EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN      (POST 12/31/04)      EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2005      (the
 Plan )      In order to assure documentary compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and clarify coordination with
various other non-qualified programs so as to avoid unintended and impermissible substitutions or accelerations because of offsets by benefits under such programs and in accordance with the reservation of the right to amend the Plan under Article
IX, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:      1. In the calculation of the reduction of a Participant s Section 4.7 Retirement Plan
Make-Up, the  Participant s interest in the cash value of the Policies  shall be determined as of the Participant s termination of employment (and shall not be subject to any variation on the basis of any election or action of
the Participant or the Company).       

Date:  
     
    December 22, 2008   

/s/ Lisa B. Peters    

Lisa B. Peters   

Chief Human Resources Officer   

</EX-10.173>

<EX-12.1>
 20
 dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation  

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s and six months of legacy The Bank of New York   Company, Inc. 

(b)   
   The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 21
 dex131.htm
 ALL PORTIONS OF THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 2008 ANNUAL REPORT

All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2008 Annual Report 

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 13.1         Financial Section          
 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        2008 ANNUAL REPORT        TABLE OF CONTENTS                

Page   
 
      Financial Summary      
     
  5   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:    

Results of operations    
     
  6   
 
     General    
     
  6   
 
     Overview    
     
  6   
 
     Summary of financial results    
     
  7   
 
     Impact of the market disruption on our business    
     
  9   
 
     Reorganization of subsidiary banks    
     
  14   
 
     Fee and other revenue    
     
  15   
 
     Net interest revenue    
     
  18   
 
     Noninterest expense    
     
  21   
 
     Income taxes    
     
  23   
 
     Extraordinary loss   consolidation of commercial paper conduits    
     
  23   
 
     Business segments review    
     
  23   
 
     International operations    
     
  39   
 
     Critical accounting estimates    
     
  41   
 
     Consolidated balance sheet review    
     
  47   
 
     Support agreements    
     
  62   
 
     Liquidity and dividends    
     
  62   
 
     Commitments and obligations    
     
  65   
 
     Off-balance sheet arrangements    
     
  66   
 
     Capital    
     
  67   
 
     Risk management    
     
  72   
 
     Trading activities and risk management    
     
  75   
 
     Foreign exchange and other trading    
     
  76   
 
     Asset/liability management    
     
  77   
 
     Business continuity    
     
  78   
 
     Supplemental information   Explanation of non-GAAP financial measures (unaudited)    
     
  79   
 
     Supplemental information   Rate/volume analysis (unaudited)    
     
  81   
 
     Recent accounting developments    
     
  82   
 
     Selected quarterly data (unaudited)    
     
  84   
 
     Forward-looking statements    
     
  85   
 
     Glossary    
     
  87   
 
     New York Stock Exchange and Securities and Exchange Commission annual certifications    
     
  91   
 
     Report of management on internal control over financial reporting    
     
  91   
 
     Report of independent registered public accounting firm    
     
  92   

Financial Statements and Notes:    

Consolidated Income Statement    
     
  93   
 
     Consolidated Balance Sheet    
     
  95   
 
     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
     
  96   
 
     Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity    
     
  97   
 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
     
  98   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
     
  147   

Directors, Senior Management and Executive Committee     
     
  148   

Performance Graph     
     
  149   

Corporate Information      
     
  Inside back cover    

Table of Contents  

      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. All legacy The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. earnings per share and share-related data are presented in post merger share count terms.      

(b)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      

(c)   
   See pages 79 and 80 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.      

(d)   
   Includes discontinued operations.         Note: FTE denotes presentation
on a fully taxable equivalent basis.         
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     5   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          Results of Operations                     General       In this Annual Report, references to  our,   we,   us,  the
 Company,  and similar terms for periods on or after July 1, 2007 refer to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and prior to July 1, 2007 refer to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      The Company s actual results of future operations may differ from those estimated or anticipated in certain forward-looking statements contained herein for reasons
which are discussed below and under the heading  Forward Looking Statements.  When used in this report, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident, 
 target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will, 
 strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends,  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements in addition to statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements.   
  Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the Glossary.      The following should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Investors should also read the section entitled  Forward-looking Statements.        How we reported results       On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the  Company ), with the Company being the surviving entity.
     The merger transaction resulted in The Bank of New York Company, Inc. shareholders receiving 0.9434 shares of the Company s common stock for each
share of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. common stock outstanding at the closing date of the merger. All legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. earnings per share and common stock outstanding amounts in this Annual Report have been restated to
reflect this exchange ratio. For accounting and financial reporting purposes the merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial. All information in this Annual Report is reported on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted.
For a description of discontinued operations, see Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
    Throughout this Annual Report, certain measures, which are
noted, exclude certain items. We believe the presentation of this information enhances investors  understanding of period-to-period results. In addition, these measures reflect the principal basis on which our management monitors financial
performance. See  Supplemental information   Explanation of non-GAAP financial measures .      Certain amounts are presented on a fully taxable
equivalent (FTE) basis. We believe that this presentation allows for comparison of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Results
for 2007 reflect six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results prior to 2007 reflect legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only. For additional information regarding the
merger, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         Overview        Our businesses       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE
symbol: BK) is a global leader in providing a comprehensive array of services that enable institutions and individuals to manage and service their financial assets in more than 100 markets worldwide. We strive to be the global provider of choice for
asset and wealth management and institutional services and be recognized for our broad and deep capabilities, superior client service and consistent outperformance versus peers. Our global client base consists of financial institutions,
corporations, government agencies, endowments and foundations and high-net-worth individuals. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had $20.2 trillion in assets under custody and administration, $928 billion in assets under management and service more than $11
trillion in outstanding debt.      The Company s businesses benefit from the global growth in financial assets, the globalization of the investment
process and the growth and concentration of wealth segments. Our long-term financial goals are focused on deploying capital to accelerate the long-term growth of our businesses and on achieving superior total returns to shareholders by generating
first quartile earnings per share growth over time relative to a group of peer companies.   
       
   6     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             Key components of our strategy include:
providing superior client service versus peers (as measured through independent surveys); strong investment performance (relative to investment benchmarks); above median revenue growth (relative to peer companies for each of our businesses); an
increasing percentage of revenue and income derived from outside the U.S.; successful integration of acquisitions; competitive margins and positive operating leverage. We have established Tier I capital as our principal capital measure and have
established a targeted minimum ratio of 10%.         Summary of financial results        Highlights of 2008 results       We reported net income applicable to
common stock of $1.4 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.20, and income from continuing operations applicable to common stock of $1.4 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.22. This compares to net income applicable to common
stock of $2.0 billion, or diluted earnings per share of $2.18 and income from continuing operations applicable to common stock of $2.2 billion, or $2.38 per fully diluted share in 2007. In December of 2008, we consolidated the assets of our
bank-sponsored commercial paper conduit, Old Slip Funding, LLC ( Old Slip ) which resulted in an extraordinary after-tax loss of $26 million or $0.02 per share. See Extraordinary loss   Consolidation of commercial paper conduits, for
a further explanation. Results for 2008 included:       

Securities write-downs of $1.6 billion (pre-tax), or $0.85 per share, primarily relating to negative market assumptions in the housing industry driven by the
current economic environment. (See the balance sheet review section on page 47);      

A charge related to voluntary fund support agreements of $894 million (pre-tax), or $0.46 per share. These support agreements primarily related to customers
impacted by the Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. ( Lehman ) bankruptcy, as well as structured investment vehicle ( SIV ) exposure in short-term net asset value funds. (See the support agreements section on page 62);

A charge relating to certain structured lease transactions ( SILOs/LILOs ) of $489 million (pre-tax) as well as the settlement of several audit cycles,
with a combined impact of $0.36 per share;      

M I expenses of $483 million (pre-tax), or $0.25 per share. (See the noninterest expense section on page 21); and      

A restructuring charge of $181 million (pre-tax), or $0.09 per share, related to our global workforce reduction of approximately 4% of our workforce or 1,800
positions. (See restructuring charge on page 116).         Results for 2008 were significantly impacted by the merger with Mellon Financial. The
merger increased asset servicing revenue, asset and wealth management revenue, foreign exchange and other trading activities, treasury services revenue, distribution and servicing, and had a lesser impact on issuer services revenue.       

Assets under custody and administration totaled $20.2 trillion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $23.1 trillion at Dec. 31, 2007 as the benefit of new business
conversions was more than offset by weaker market values and the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar. (See the Institutional Services sector on pages 31 and 32).      

Asset servicing revenue totaled $3.3 billion in 2008 compared with $2.4 billion in 2007. The increase was primarily due to higher securities lending revenue, net
new business and the fourth quarter 2007 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V., partially offset by lower market levels and a stronger U.S. dollar. (See the Asset Servicing segment on pages 32 through 34).

Issuer services revenue totaled $1.7 billion in 2008 compared with $1.6 billion in 2007. The increase primarily reflects growth in Depositary Receipts and Corporate
Trust fees. (See the Issuer Services segment on pages 34 and 35).      

Clearing and execution services fees totaled $1.1 billion in 2008 compared with $1.2 billion in 2007. The decrease primarily reflects the sale of the execution
businesses in the first quarter of 2008, partially offset by growth in trading activity along with growth in money market mutual fund fees. (See the Clearing Services segment on pages 35 and 36).      

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     7   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

2007. The increase reflects inflows of money market assets, partially offset by global weakness in market values and net long-term outflows. (See the Asset
Management and Wealth Management segments on page 29 through 31).      

Foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue totaled a record $1.5 billion in 2008 compared with $786 million in 2007. The increase primarily reflects the
benefit of increased market volatility and higher client volumes. (See the fee and other revenue section on pages 15 through 17).      

Net interest revenue totaled $3.0 billion in 2008 compared with $2.3 billion in 2007. The increase was primarily due to wider spreads on investment securities and a
higher level of noninterest-bearing liabilities which drove a higher level of average interest-earning assets, partially offset by the SILO/LILO charges recorded in 2008. (See the net interest revenue section on page 18).

Noninterest expense totaled $11.6 billion in 2008 compared with $8.1 billion in 2007. The increase resulted from support agreement charges, the restructuring charge
and the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. These increases were partially offset by the benefit of merger-related expense synergies generated in 2008, the sale of the execution businesses and a stronger U.S.
dollar. (See the noninterest expense section on pages 21 through 23).      

The unrealized net of tax loss on our securities portfolio was $4.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $342 million at Dec. 31, 2007. The increase primarily
resulted from wider credit spreads reflecting market illiquidity. (See the balance sheet review section on page 47).      

Highlights of 2007 results       In 2007, we reported consolidated net income of $2.0 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.18 compared with net income of $2.8 billion and diluted earnings per share of $3.94 in 2006. Net income in 2006
included income from discontinued operations, net of tax, of $1.4 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.90, primarily from the sale of our Retail Business.      In December of 2007, we consolidated the assets of our bank-sponsored commercial paper conduit, Three Rivers Funding Corporation ( TRFC ) which resulted in an extra-ordinary after-tax loss of $180 million or $0.19 per share.
     Income from continuing operations before extra-ordinary loss in 2007 was $2.2 billion and diluted earnings per share was $2.38, compared with $1.5 billion
and $2.04 per share in 2006.      Performance highlights for 2007 were primarily impacted by the merger with Mellon Financial and include:       

Issuer services revenue was $1.6 billion in 2007 compared with $895 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of the corporate trust
business ( the Acquired Corporate Trust Business ) of J.P. Morgan Chase   Co. and strong growth in Depositary Receipts revenue.      

8     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading activities was $786 million in 2007, compared with $415 million in 2006. The increase includes higher customer
volumes and the favorable impact that resulted from increased currency volatility in the second half of 2007.      

Securities losses totaled $201 million in 2007 primarily reflecting a $200 million loss on collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) recorded in the fourth quarter.

Noninterest expense was $8.1 billion in 2007 compared with $4.7 billion in 2006. The increase includes the purchase of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, as
well as $404 million pre-tax of M I expense and $319 million pre-tax of intangible amortization expense in 2007, partially offset by the disposition of certain businesses in the BNY ConvergEx Group transaction and $175 million of merger-related
synergies generated in 2007.          Highlights of 2006 results       In 2006, we reported net income of $2.8 billion and diluted earnings per share of $3.94 and income from continuing operations of $1.5 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.04. Discontinued operations for 2006
included a net after-tax gain of $1.4 billion, or diluted earnings per share of $1.90.      Performance highlights for 2006 include:       

A 13% increase in securities servicing fees;      

A 12% increase in net interest revenue;      

A 9% increase in foreign exchange and other trading activities, and      

A 20% increase in asset and wealth management fees.         On Oct. 1, 2006, we purchased the Acquired Corporate Trust Business from, and sold our retail business to, JPMorgan Chase.      On Oct. 2, 2006, we
completed the transaction resulting in the formation of BNY CovergEx Group.         Impact of the market disruption on our business
      The following discusses the areas of our business that are likely to continue to be impacted by the current market environment, as well as events
during 2008 that impacted the Company s operations.         
     Impact on our business       Market volatility associated with the performance of global equity indices and the disruption in the fixed income securities market, had a considerable impact on all of
our core businesses.      Our Asset and Wealth Management businesses have been negatively impacted by global weakness in market values. In 2008, the S P
500 and the MSCI EAFE indices declined 38% and 45%, respectively, resulting in lower performance fees, a decline in investment income related to seed capital investments as well as lower asset and wealth management fee revenue as lower market values
offset the impact of new business wins.      In contrast, current market conditions have favorably impacted our processing and capital markets related fees in
our Institutional Services businesses, as well as our net interest revenue. Market volatility has resulted in an increased volume of activity impacting foreign exchange and clearing and has led to a widening of spreads associated with securities
lending, foreign exchange and net interest revenue.      A lower risk appetite by investors and our institutional clients has led to an increase in deposit
levels. It is uncertain how long we will continue to benefit from increased volatility, volumes and deposit levels.      Market conditions have resulted in a
reduction in the volume in new fixed income securities issuances which has impacted the level of new business in our Corporate Trust business.      However,
the disruption has also resulted in new opportunities. The Company is playing a vital role in supporting governments  stabilization efforts in North America and Europe to bring liquidity back to the financial markets.      In October 2008, the Company was selected by the U.S. Department of the Treasury as the sole provider of a broad range of custodial and Corporate Trust services to
support the government s Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ).      The U.S. Treasury Department has hired us to provide the accounting of
record for its portfolio, hold all cash and assets in the portfolio, provide for document custody and assist with other related services.      In November
2008, we were selected by the U.S. Department of Education to provide conduit administration services for the Federal Family Education Loan Program ( FFEL ).   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     9   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             In addition, in the first quarter of 2008, the
Federal Reserve established the Primary Dealer Credit Facility ( PDCF ) and the Term Securities Lending Facility ( TSLF ). The Company provides collateral management services for these programs.      On Jan. 23, 2009, the Company, through its subsidiary BNY Trust Company of Canada, was appointed trustee, paying agent and registrar for the restructuring of
Canada s non-bank sponsored asset-backed commercial paper market.      Our role in this restructuring will be to service debt issues and process principal
and interest payments for investors. We will also serve as collateral agent and accounting agent on three separate pools of assets.      In 2008, we assisted
in the issuance of $80 billion of government guaranteed debt for 12 of the major financial institutions across Europe. In the United Kingdom, we have also acted for major financial institutions that are both issuing debt under the Government
Guarantee Scheme and exchanging  toxic assets  for Treasury Bills under the Special Liquidity Scheme. Across the rest of Europe, we are acting for banks whose governments have put guarantees in place on debt issued.      Support for these programs is administered through our Global Corporate Trust and Asset Servicing businesses.       Securities write-downs       The ongoing disruption in the fixed income
securities market has resulted in additional impairment charges, as well as an increase in unrealized securities losses. In 2008, we recorded impairment charges on our securities portfolio of $1.6 billion, pre-tax, or $0.85 per common share. These
losses were primarily driven by lower market values of Alt-A, home equity lines of credit ( HELOC ) and asset-backed collateralized debt obligations ( CDO ) securities. The market value of these securities was severely impacted
by the depressed housing market and deterioration in the broader economy. The unrealized loss on the securities portfolio, which is recorded in other comprehensive income, was $4.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $342 million at Dec. 31,
2007. The unrealized loss was influenced by the same factors. See the investment securities discussion in Consolidated balance sheet review for the impact of the market disruptions on our investment securities portfolio.         
     Support agreements       In 2008, the Company elected to support its clients invested in money market mutual funds, cash
sweep funds and similar collective funds, managed by our affiliates, impacted by the Lehman bankruptcy. The support agreements relate to five commingled cash funds used primarily for overnight custody cash sweeps, four Dreyfus money market funds and
various securities lending customers.      These voluntary agreements are in addition to an agreement covering SIV exposure in a Sterling-denominated NAV fund,
an agreement covering securities related to Whistle Jacket Capital/White Pine Financial, LLC to a commingled short-term net asset value fund and agreements providing support to a collective investment pool. In 2008, we also offered to support
certain clients holding auction rate securities in the Wealth Management and Treasury Services segments. Combined, these actions resulted in an $894 million, pre-tax, or $0.46 per common share, charge recorded in 2008. See page 62 for further
information on support agreements.       Asset-backed commercial paper liquidity facility program       In September 2008, the Federal Reserve announced an Asset-Backed Commercial Paper ( ABCP ) Money Market Mutual Fund ( MMMF ) Liquidity Facility
program (the  ABCP Program ).      Eligible borrowers under the ABCP Program include all U.S. depository institutions, U.S. bank holding companies,
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks and broker-dealers. Eligible borrowers may borrow funds under the ABCP Program in order to fund the purchase of eligible ABCP from an MMMF. The MMMF must be a fund that qualifies as a money market mutual
fund under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment Company Act ). ABCP used for collateral in the ABCP Program must be rated no lower than A1, F1 or P1, U.S. dollar denominated and from a U.S. issuer.
The ABCP Program, which began on Sept. 19, 2008, was initially scheduled to run through Jan. 30, 2009. The Federal Reserve has extended this program through Oct. 30, 2009.      Borrowings under the ABCP Program are non-recourse. Further, the ABCP pledged under the ABCP Program receives a 0% risk weight for risk-based capital purposes and is excluded from average total consolidated assets for
leverage capital purposes.   
       
   10     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Subsidiaries of the Company purchased ABCP under the ABCP Program from MMMFs managed by the Company s subsidiaries, as well as funds managed by third
parties. At Dec. 31, 2008, we held $5.6 billion of assets and liabilities under the ABCP Program. The ABCP Program increased average assets by $2.3 billion in 2008. These assets are recorded on the balance sheet as other short-term investments
  U.S. government-backed commercial paper. The liabilities are recorded as Borrowings from the Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper. In January 2009, $4.5 billion of these assets and borrowings were repaid without credit
losses.       Temporary guarantee program for money market mutual funds       In September 2008, the U.S. Treasury Department opened its Temporary Guarantee Program for Money Market Mutual Funds (the  Temporary Guarantee Program ). The U.S. Treasury will guarantee the share price of
any publicly offered eligible money market fund that applies for and pays a fee to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. All money market funds that are structured within the confines of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, maintain a
stable share price of $1.00, are publicly offered and are registered with the SEC are eligible to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program.      The
Temporary Guarantee Program provides coverage to shareholders for amounts that they held in participating money market funds at the close of business on Sept. 19, 2008. The guarantee will be triggered if the market value of assets held in a
participating fund falls below $0.995, the fund s sponsor chooses not to maintain the $1.00 share price, and the fund s board determines to liquidate the fund. The Temporary Guarantee Program is designed to address temporary dislocations
in credit markets and initially was scheduled to run through Dec. 18, 2008. In November 2008, the Department of the Treasury announced an extension of the Temporary Guarantee Program until April 30, 2009 to support ongoing stability in this
market. Continued protection is contingent upon funds renewing their coverage and paying any additional required fee. The Secretary of the Treasury may further extend the program until Sept. 18, 2009; however, no decision has been made to extend the
program beyond April 30, 2009.      Each Dreyfus and BNY Mellon Funds Trust money market fund has entered into a Guarantee Agreement with the Department
of the Treasury which permits   
   
 these funds to participate in the Temporary Guarantee Program. On Dec. 12, 2008, the funds renewed their coverage, via the extension discussed above, to
ensure continued protection.       U.S. Treasury program   investment in U.S. financial institutions       In October 2008, the U.S. government announced the Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ) authorized under the
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ). The intention of this program is to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital, to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy.
On Oct. 14, 2008, the Company announced that it would be part of the initial group of nine institutions in which the U.S. Treasury would purchase an equity stake. Since Oct. 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury has purchased an equity position in many
institutions.      The Company agreed to issue and sell to the U.S. Treasury preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of common stock in accordance
with the terms of the CPP for an aggregate purchase price of $3 billion. As a result, on Oct. 28, 2008, we issued Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B ($2.779 billion) and a warrant for common stock ($221 million), as described
below, to the U.S. Treasury. The Series B preferred stock will pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Dividends will be payable
quarterly in arrears on March 20, June 20, Sept. 20 and Dec. 20 of each year. The Series B preferred stock can only be redeemed within the first three years with the proceeds of at least $750 million from one or more qualified equity
offerings. After Dec. 20, 2011, the Series B preferred stock may be redeemed in whole or in part, at any time, at our option, at a price equal to 100% of the issue price plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Redemption of the Series B preferred
stock at any time will be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ) enacted Feb. 17, 2009, the U.S. Treasury, subject to consultation with the appropriate
Federal banking agency, is required to permit a TARP recipient to repay any assistance previously provided under TARP to such financial institution, without regard to whether the financial institution has replaced such funds from any other source or
to any waiting period. When such assistance is repaid, the U.S. Treasury is required to liquidate warrants associated  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     11   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 with such assistance at the current market price. The Series B preferred stock qualifies as Tier I capital.      Issuance of the Series B preferred shares places restrictions on our common stock dividend and repurchases of common stock. Prior to the earlier of (i) the third
anniversary of the closing date or (ii) the date on which the Series B preferred stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series B preferred stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury
is required to:       

Pay any dividend on our common stock other than regular quarterly dividends of not more than our current quarterly dividend of $0.24 per common share; or

Redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of common stock or other capital stock or other equity securities of any kind of the Company or any trust preferred
securities issued by the Company or any affiliate except in connection with (i) any benefit plan in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (ii) market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in
the ordinary course or; (iii) acquisitions by the Company as trustees or custodians.         In addition, until such time as the U.S.
Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Company acquired pursuant to the Oct. 28, 2008 closing or exercise of the warrant described below, the Company must ensure that its compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans,
arrangements and agreements (including so-called golden parachute, severance and employment agreements (collectively,  Benefit Plans ) with respect to its Senior Executive Officers (as defined in the EESA and regulations thereunder) (a
 Senior Executive Officer )) comply with Section 111(b) of the EESA as implemented by any guidance and regulations issued and in effect on Oct. 28, 2008, as well as the ARRA legislation enacted in February 2009. ARRA has revised
several of the provisions in the EESA with respect to executive compensation and has enacted additional compensation limitations on TARP recipients. The provisions include new limits on the ability of TARP recipients to pay or accrue bonuses,
retention awards, or incentive compensation to at least the 20 next most highly-compensated employees in addition to the Company s Senior Executive Officers, a prohibition on golden parachute payments on such Senior Executive Officers and the
next five most highly-compensated employees, a clawback of any bonus, retention or incentive awards paid to any Senior   
   
 Executive Officer or any of the next 20 most highly-compensated employees based on materially inaccurate earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, a
required policy restricting excessive or luxury expenditures, and a requirement that TARP recipients implement a non-binding  say-on-pay  shareholder vote on executive compensation.      In connection with the issuance of the Series B preferred stock, we issued a warrant to purchase 14,516,129 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury. The warrant
has a 10-year term and an exercise price of $31.00 per share. The warrant is immediately exercisable, in whole or in part. Exercise must be on a cashless basis unless the Company agrees to a cash exercise. However, the U.S. Treasury has agreed that
it will not transfer or exercise the warrant for more than 50% of the shares covered until the earlier of (i) the date on which we receive aggregate gross proceeds of not less than $3 billion from one or more qualified equity offerings, and
(ii) Dec. 31, 2009. If the Company completes one or more qualified equity offerings on or prior to Dec. 31, 2009 that results in the Company receiving aggregate gross proceeds of not less than $3 billion, the number of shares of common stock
originally covered by the warrant will be reduced by one-half. The U.S. Treasury will not exercise voting power associated with any shares underlying the warrant. The warrant will be classified as permanent equity under GAAP.      The preferred dividends and the amortization of the discount on the Series B preferred stock reduced net income applicable to common stock by $33 million, or $0.03 per
common share in 2008 and are expected to reduce earnings per share by approximately $0.16 per common share in 2009.      The proceeds from the Series B
preferred stock have been utilized to improve the flow of funds in the financial markets. Specifically we have:       

Purchased mortgage-backed securities and debentures issued by U.S. government-sponsored agencies to support efforts to increase the amount of money available to
lend to qualified borrowers in the residential housing market.      

Purchased debt securities of other financial institutions, which helps increase the amount of funds available to lend to consumers and businesses.

Continued to make loans to other financial institutions through the interbank lending market.      
       
   12     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             All of these efforts address the need to improve
liquidity in the financial system and are consistent with our business model which is focused on institutional clients.       FDIC Temporary Liquidity
Guarantee Program       In October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. This program:       

Guarantees certain types of senior unsecured debt issued by most U.S. bank holding companies, U.S. savings and loan holding companies and FDIC-insured depositary
institutions between Oct. 14, 2008 and the earlier of (i) June 30, 2009 and (if applicable) (ii) the date the FDIC-insured bank elects not to participate in the program   a decision that must have been made no later than
Dec. 5, 2008, including promissory notes, commercial paper and any unsecured portion of secured debt. The Company did not elect to opt out of this program. Prepayment of debt not guaranteed by the FDIC and replacement with FDIC-guaranteed debt is
not permitted. The amount of debt covered by the guarantee may not exceed 125 percent of the par value of the issuing entity s senior unsecured debt, excluding debt extended to affiliates or institution-affiliated parties, outstanding as of
Sept. 30, 2008, that is scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, (this date may be extended). For FDIC guaranteed debt issued on or before June 30, 2009, an annualized assessment rate will be paid to the FDIC equal to 50 or 75 points
multiplied by the amount of debt with a maturity of less than one year. For debt with a maturity of greater than one year, the annualized assessment rate is 100 basis points. For FDIC-guaranteed debt issued on or before June 30, 2009, the
guarantee will terminate on the earlier of the maturity of the debt or June 30, 2012.      

Provides full FDIC deposit insurance coverage for funds held by FDIC-insured banks in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts at FDIC-insured depositary
institutions until Dec. 31, 2009. For such accounts, a 10 basis point surcharge on the depositary institution s current assessment rate will be applied to deposits not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. At
Dec. 31, 2008, $49.9 billion of deposits with us were covered by the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.            
    The FDIC adopted the final rule implementing the Temporary
Liquidity Program on Nov. 21, 2008. Participation in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program resulted in $7 million, pre-tax, of additional expense, recorded in other expenses, in 2008 and is expected to result in $50 million,
pre-tax, of additional expense, or $0.03 per common share, in 2009, based on deposit levels at Dec. 31, 2008.      At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company was eligible
to issue approximately $600 million of FDIC-guaranteed debt under this program.       Money market investor funding facility       In October 2008, the Federal Reserve announced the creation of the Money Market Investor Funding Facility ( MMIFF ), which will support a private-sector
initiative designed to provide liquidity to U.S. money market investors.      Under the MMIFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will provide senior secured
financing to a series of special purpose vehicles ( SPVs ) that will purchase high-quality money market instruments maturing in 90 days or less from U.S. money market funds. Eligible assets will include U.S. dollar-denominated certificates
of deposit and commercial paper issued by highly rated financial institutions and having remaining maturities of 90 days or less. Eligible investors will include U.S. money market mutual funds and over time may include other U.S. money market
investors. In January 2009, the Federal Reserve expanded the set of institutions eligible to participate in the MMIFF to also include U.S.-based securities lending cash collateral reinvestment funds, portfolios and accounts (securities lenders) and
U.S.-based investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds, such as certain local government investment pools, common trust funds and collective investment funds.      The MMIFF became operational on Nov. 24, 2008. SPVs were eligible to begin purchasing assets on Nov. 24, 2008 and will cease purchasing assets on Oct. 30, 2009,
unless the Federal Reserve Board extends the MMIFF. As of Feb. 25, 2009, none of the Company s money market funds or investment funds that operate in a manner similar to money market mutual funds had offered assets for sale to these SPVs.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     13   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
                Reorganization of subsidiary
banks       On July 1, 2008, we completed the process of consolidating and renaming our principal U.S. bank and trust company subsidiaries into two
principal banks. This consolidation effort was an essential part of our overall merger and integration process.      The two principal banks resulting from the
consolidation of the entities, which mainly were U.S. banks and trust companies, are:       

The Bank of New York Mellon (the  Bank ), a New York state chartered bank, formerly named  The Bank of New York , which houses our institutional
businesses including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.      

BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named  Mellon Bank, N.A. , which houses our Wealth
Management business. Currently, this bank contains only the legacy Mellon Financial wealth management business. The wealth management business of the legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. is expected to be added to BNY Mellon, N.A. in 2009.
        As part of the consolidation, the number of our U.S. trust companies was reduced to two   The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. These companies house trust products and services across the U.S. Also concentrating on trust products and services will be BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank. Most
asset management businesses, along with Pershing, will continue to be direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.   
       
   14     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
    Fee and other revenue        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.               Fee and other revenue       Fee and other revenue increased 18% in 2008 versus 2007. The merger with Mellon Financial significantly increased asset servicing revenue, asset and wealth management
revenue, foreign exchange and other trading activities, treasury services revenue and distribution and servicing, and had a lesser impact on issuer services revenue. The following discussion highlights factors other than the merger.       Securities servicing fees       The increase in securities servicing fees
compared to 2007 includes:       

Growth in asset servicing revenue was driven by higher securities lending revenue (included in asset servicing), strong new business activity and the acquisition of
the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. in the fourth quarter of 2007;      

Growth in issuer services revenue driven by higher Depositary Receipts, Corporate Trust and Shareowner Services fees; and      

Growth in clearing and execution services, excluding the sale of the execution businesses in the      

first quarter of 2008, driven by money market mutual fund fees and new business, partially offset by significantly lower market valuations.
        Partially offsetting growth in securities servicing fees were lower market levels and a stronger U.S. dollar.      See the  Institutional Services sector  in  Business segments review  for additional details.       Asset and wealth management fees       The increase in asset and wealth
management fees from 2007 included strong money market flows and net new business in Wealth Management, which were more than offset by significant declines in global market values and long-term outflows. See the  Asset and Wealth Management
sector  in  Business segments review  for additional details regarding the drivers of asset and wealth management fees.      Total AUM for the
Asset and Wealth Management sector were $928 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $1.12 trillion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease resulted from market depreciation, the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar and long-term outflows, partially
offset by strong money market inflows. The S P 500   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     15   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 index was 903 at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with 1468 at Dec. 31, 2007, a 38% decrease. Net asset inflows totaled $49 billion in 2008 resulting from $92 billion
of money market inflows partially offset by $43 billion of long-term outflows.       Performance fees       Performance fees, which are reported in the Asset Management segment, are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark
index or a peer group s performance. There is an increase/decrease in incentive expense with a related change in performance fees. Performance fees totaled $83 million in 2008, a decrease of $10 million compared with 2007. The
decrease was primarily due to a lower level of fees generated on certain equity and alternative strategies.       Foreign exchange and other trading
activities       Foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue, which is primarily reported in the Asset Servicing segment, was a record $1.5
billion in 2008, an increase of $676 million, or 86%, compared with 2007. The increase primarily resulted from higher volatility in all major currencies and a rise in client volumes, as well as the higher value of the credit default swap book (used
to economically hedge certain loan exposures). On a daily basis, the Company monitors a volatility index of global currency using a basket of 30 major currencies. In 2008, the volatility of this index was above median for most of the year and
significantly above median in the fourth quarter. In 2007, the volatility of the index was below median in the first half of the year, recovering to near median in the second half of the year.       Treasury services       Treasury services, which are primarily reported
in the Treasury Services segment, include fees related to funds transfer, cash management, and liquidity management. Treasury services fees increased $170 million from 2007 resulting from higher processing volumes in global payment and cash
management services.         
     Distribution and servicing fees       Distribution and servicing fees
earned from mutual funds are primarily based on average assets in the funds and the sales of funds that we manage or administer and are primarily reported in the Asset Management segment. These fees, which include 12b-1 fees, fluctuate with the
overall level of net sales, the relative mix of sales between share classes and the funds  market values.      The $209 million increase in distribution
and servicing fee revenue in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily reflects strong money market inflows. The impact of these fees on income in any one period can be more than offset by distribution and servicing expense paid to other financial
intermediaries to cover their costs for distribution and servicing of mutual funds. Distribution and servicing expense is recorded as noninterest expense on the income statement.       Financing-related fees       Financing-related fees, which are primarily reported in the Treasury Services segment,
include capital markets fees, loan commitment fees and credit-related trade fees. Financing-related fees decreased $28 million from 2007. The decrease reflects lower leveraged loan portfolio fees and lower credit-related activities consistent with
our strategic direction.       Investment income       Investment income, which is primarily reported in the Other and Asset Management segments, includes the gains and losses on private equity investments and seed capital investments, income from insurance contracts, and lease residual gains
and losses. The decline compared to 2007 principally reflects lower private equity investment income as well as the change in market value of seed capital investments associated with our Asset Management business, partially offset by higher revenue
from insurance contracts assumed in the merger with Mellon Financial. Private equity investment income was $1 million in 2008 compared with $67 million in 2007. Seed capital revenue was a loss of $82 million in 2008 compared with a loss of $35
million in 2007. Revenue from insurance contracts was $145 million in 2008 compared with $111 million in 2007.   
       
   16     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Other revenue        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         Other revenue includes asset-related gains, expense reimbursements from joint ventures, equity
investment income, merchant card fees, net economic value payments and other. Asset-related gains include loan, real estate and other asset dispositions. Equity investment income primarily reflects our proportionate share of the income from our
investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited. Expense reimbursements from joint ventures relate to expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of joint ventures. Other primarily includes foreign currency translation gains (losses), other investments and
various miscellaneous revenues.      Other revenue increased from 2007 primarily reflecting higher asset related gains partially offset by lower net economic
value payments, lower expense reimbursements from joint ventures, lower equity investment income and lower merchant card fees. Asset related gains in 2008 include the $42 million gain associated with the initial public offering by VISA. Lower
expense reimbursements relate to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. Economic value payments primarily related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, for international customers whose net revenue had
not previously been transferred. Upon conversion, revenue from the Acquired Corporate Trust Business clients was reflected in issuer services fees and net interest revenue.         
     Securities gains
(losses)       Securities losses totaled $1.6 billion in 2008 and $201 million in 2007. The following table details the securities write-downs in 2008 by
type of security. These write-downs primarily reflect deterioration in the housing market and the general economy in 2008. See  Consolidated balance sheet review  for further information on the investment portfolio and a discussion of
expected incurred loss.       

(b)   
   Includes $25 million related to Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( FHLMC ).          2007 compared with 2006       The increase in fee and other revenue in 2007 compared with 2006 was primarily driven by
the merger with Mellon Financial and the full-year impact of the acquisition in October 2006 of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, partially offset by the October 2006 BNY ConvergEx Group transaction and securities losses.      Fee and other revenue was also impacted by the following: securities servicing fees increased reflecting strong organic growth in securities lending revenue, depositary
receipts and broker-dealer services; asset and wealth management fees increased as a result of net new business and improved equity markets; foreign exchange and other trading activities increased as a result of higher customer volumes due to
increased activity of existing clients, new clients, and increased volatility; other revenue reflects lower asset related gains; securities losses were primarily driven by a $200 million loss on CDOs recorded in 2007.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     17   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
    Net interest revenue        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.              Net interest revenue on an FTE basis totaled
$2.973 billion in 2008 and included a $489 million charge related to SILO/LILOs. Net interest revenue on an FTE basis totaled $2.312 billion in 2007. The net interest margin was 1.92% in 2008 compared with 2.08% in 2007.      The growth in net interest revenue in 2008 compared with 2007 reflects the merger with Mellon Financial. In addition to the merger, the increase in net interest revenue
resulted from a higher level of noninterest-bearing deposits which resulted in a higher level of interest-earning assets, wider spreads and the accretion of unrealized losses on investment securities. Growth in net interest revenue was partially
offset by SILO/ LILO charges recorded in 2008. Net interest revenue in 2007 was impacted by a required recalculation of the yield on leveraged leases under SFAS No. 13-2 for changes to New York state tax rates resulting from the merger with
Mellon Financial ($22 million). Also, in 2007, we received net economic value payments on the Acquired Corporate Trust Business deposits post-acquisition but prior to the transfer of the deposits to us. These payments, which totaled $41 million in
2007, were recorded in other revenue.      Average interest-earning assets were $154 billion in 2008, compared with $111 billion in 2007 and $76 billion in
2006. The increase in 2008 from 2007 was driven by the merger with Mellon Financial, as well as growth in deposits from Institutional Services clients as the client base responded to continued market volatility by increasing their deposit levels
with us. Most of this increase occurred in the second half of 2008. These deposits were placed in liquid funds either with the Federal Reserve and other central banks or in short-term deposits with large global   
   
 banks. Average interest-earning cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and interbank investments were $60.1 billion in 2008, $32.2
billion in 2007 and $16.1 billion in 2006. Average loans were $48.1 billion in 2008, compared with $41.5 billion in 2007 and $33.6 billion in 2006. Average securities were $46.2 billion in 2008, up from $37.4 billion in 2007 and $25.9 billion in
2006.      The net interest margin was 1.92% in 2008 compared with 2.08% in 2007 and 2.01% in 2006. The decrease from 2007 principally reflects the SILO/LILO
charges recorded in 2008. Excluding the SILO/LILO charges, the net interest margin increased 16 basis points compared with 2007, primarily reflecting wider spreads.       2007 compared with 2006       The increase in net interest revenue in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily resulted from the
merger with Mellon Financial, a higher level of average interest-earning assets driven by growth in client deposits, higher deposit balances associated with the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, wider spreads on investment securities and lower bond
premium amortization. This growth was partially offset by the required recalculation of the yield on leverage leases under SFAS No. 13-2, for changes to New York state tax rates resulting from the merger with Mellon Financial ($22 million).
     The net interest margin was 2.08% in 2007 compared with 2.01% in 2006. The increase primarily reflects the merger with Mellon Financial as well as a
higher average level of noninterest-bearing deposits, wider spreads on investment securities and lower bond premium amortization.   
       
   18     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)   
   Includes fees of $36 million in 2008. Nonaccrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is included in interest.

(b)   
   Includes the impact of the SILO/LILO charge in 2008. Excluding these charges, the domestic offices  non-margin commercial loan rate would have been 3.23%, the total
non-margin loan rate would have been 3.75%, the interest-earning assets rate would have been 3.98% and the net interest margin would have been 2.24%.      

(c)   
   The tax equivalent adjustment was $22 million in 2008 and is based on the federal statutory tax rate (35%) and applicable state and local taxes.

(d)   
   Includes Cayman Islands branch offices.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     19   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Average balances and rates have been impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(c)   
   Includes fees of $32 million in 2007 and $42 million in 2006. Nonaccrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is
included in interest.      

(e)   
   Includes Cayman Islands branch office.            
   20     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
    Noninterest expense            

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   On a pro forma basis, including incentives for Mellon Financial in the first half of 2007, total incentives decreased 15% compared with 2007.      

(c)   
   Total staff expense as a percentage of total revenue (FTE) excluding the SILO/LILO charges and securities write-down was 32% in 2008.              Total noninterest expense increased $3.5 billion, or 43%, compared with 2007. In addition to the merger with Mellon Financial, the following factors contributed to the increase:       

an $894 million charge related to support agreements primarily recorded in the second half of 2008 related to the Company s voluntary support of clients
invested in money market mutual funds, cash sweep funds and similar collective funds, managed by our affiliates, impacted by the Lehman bankruptcy. See the Support Agreements section for further information;      

the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. in the fourth quarter of 2007;      

a $181 million restructuring charge related to our previously announced global workforce reduction program. This program is expected to reduce our workforce by
approximately 4%, or 1,800 positions. For further information on the      

components of the restructuring charge, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and      

a $50 million of charges related to credit monitoring for lost tapes.         Partially offsetting these increases were:       

expense synergies associated with the merger with Mellon Financial. In 2008, we achieved total expense synergies of $550 million representing an increase of $375
million over the prior year;      

the sale of the execution businesses in the first quarter of 2008; and      

a stronger U.S. dollar.          Staff expense
      Given our mix of fee-based businesses, which are staffed with high quality professionals, staff expense comprised approximately 54% of total
noninterest expense, excluding the restructuring charge, the support agreement charges, M I and intangible amortization expenses.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     21   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Staff expense is comprised of:       

compensation expense, which includes:      

base salary expense, primarily driven by headcount;      

the cost of temporary help and overtime, and      

severance expense;      

incentive expense, which includes:      

additional compensation earned under a wide range of sales commission and incentive plans designed to reward a combination of individual, business unit and
corporate performance goals; as well as      

stock- based compensation expense, and      

employee benefit expense, primarily medical benefits, payroll taxes, pension and other retirement benefits.         The increase in staff expense compared with 2007 reflects a net increase in headcount associated with the Mellon Financial merger, the acquisition of the remaining 50%
interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. and the second quarter 2008 annual employee merit increase. Partially offsetting these increases was the sale of the execution businesses and the ongoing benefit of merger-related synergies.       Non-staff expense       Non-staff expense includes certain expenses that
vary with the levels of business activity and levels of expensed business investments, fixed infrastructure costs and expenses associated with corporate activities related to technology, compliance, productivity initiatives and corporate
development.      Non-staff expense, excluding the support agreement charges, the restructuring charge, intangible amortization expense and M I totaled
$4.4 billion in 2008 compared with $3.3 billion in 2007. The increase reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, partially offset by the sale of the execution businesses, strong expense control and a stronger U.S. dollar and also included
the following activity:       

Increases in professional, legal and other purchased services, software expense, furniture      

and equipment and business development expenses resulting from business growth and strategic initiatives;      

A $249 million increase in distribution and servicing expense. Distribution and servicing expense represents amounts paid to other financial intermediaries to
cover their costs for distribution (marketing support, administration and record keeping) and servicing of mutual funds. Generally, increases in distribution and servicing expense reflect higher net sales. Distribution and servicing expense in any
one year is not expected to be fully recovered by higher distribution and service revenue; rather it contributes to future growth in mutual fund management revenue reflecting the growth in mutual fund assets generated through certain distribution
channels; and      

An increase in other expense reflecting organic business growth, the previously mentioned credit monitoring charges for lost tapes and the write-down of seed
capital investments related to a formerly affiliated hedge fund manager.         Amortization of intangible assets increased to $482 million in
2008 compared with $319 million in 2007, primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial.      In 2008, we incurred $471 million of M I expenses
related to the merger with Mellon Financial, comprised of the following:       

Integration/conversion costs including consulting, system conversions and staff ($302 million);      

Personnel related includes severance, retention, relocation expenses, accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock expense ($151 million); and

One-time costs includes facilities related costs, asset write-offs, vendor contract modifications, rebranding and net gain (loss) on disposals ($18 million).
        We also incurred $12 million of M I expense associated with the acquisition of the corporate trust business of JPMorgan Chase
( Acquired Corporate Trust Business ) in 2008.   
       
   22     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  2007 compared with 2006       Total noninterest expense,
excluding support agreement charges, intangible amortization and M I expense, was $7.4 billion in 2007, an increase of $2.9 billion or 64% compared with 2006. The merger with Mellon Financial, the purchase of the Acquired Corporate Trust
Business and the disposition of certain execution businesses in the BNY ConvergEx transaction significantly impacted comparisons of 2007 to 2006. The net impact of these transactions increased nearly all expense categories. Noninterest expense for
2007 also includes the pre-tax write-off of the value of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager that was disposed of in 2006 ($32 million). Noninterest expense in 2007 also included $175 million in expense synergies associated with the
merger with Mellon Financial.      In 2007, we incurred $355 million of M I expenses related to the merger with Mellon Financial, comprised of the
following: personnel related ($122 million); integration/conversion costs ($136 million); transaction costs ($67 million), and one-time costs ($30 million). We also incurred $49 million of M I expense associated with the Acquired Corporate Trust
Business in 2007.      Amortization of intangible assets increased to $319 million in 2007 compared with $76 million in 2006, primarily reflecting the merger
with Mellon Financial.         Income taxes       On a continuing operations basis, the effective tax rate for 2008 was 25.6%, compared to 31.0% for 2007 and 32.0% for 2006. The lower effective tax rate in 2008 compared with 2007 resulted from lower domestic earnings and a higher
proportion of income earned in lower taxed foreign jurisdictions. The lower effective tax rate in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily reflected the benefit of higher foreign tax credits and lower state and local taxes, partially offset by the phase
out of the benefits received from synthetic fuel credits.         Extraordinary loss - Consolidation of commercial paper conduits
      On Dec. 30, 2008, we voluntarily called the first loss notes of Old Slip, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of Old
Slip   
   
 (approximately $125 million in assets). The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary loss (non-cash accounting charge) of $26 million
after-tax, or $0.02 per common share, representing the current mark-to-market discount from par associated with spread-widening for the assets in Old Slip.      On Dec. 31, 2007, we called the first loss notes of TRFC, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of TRFC. The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary loss (non-cash accounting charge) of
$180 million after-tax, or $0.19 per share in 2007, representing the mark to market discount from par associated with spread widening for the assets in TRFC. In addition to the extraordinary loss, the size of the Dec. 31, 2007 balance sheet
increased by the full amount of third party commercial paper funding previously issued by TRFC of approximately $4.0 billion.         Business
segments review       We have an internal information system that produces performance data for our seven business segments along product and service lines.
      Business segments accounting principles       Our segment
data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for consolidated financial reporting. These measurement principles are designed so that reported results of the
segments will track their economic performance.      Segment results are subject to reclassification whenever improvements are made in the measurement
principles or when organizational changes are made.      The accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements except that other fee revenue and net interest revenue differ from the amounts shown in the Consolidated Income Statement because amounts presented in the Business segments are on an FTE basis.      In the second quarter of 2008, we moved the financial results of Mellon 1   st    Business Bank ( M1BB ) and Mellon United National Bank ( MUNB ) to the Other   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     23   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 segment from the Wealth Management segment. This change reflects the sale of M1BB in June 2008, as well as our focus on reducing non-core activities.
Historical segment results for Wealth Management and Other have been restated to reflect these changes. Pre-tax income for M1BB was $50 million for full year 2007 and was primarily comprised of net interest revenue.         
    The operations of acquired businesses are integrated with the existing business segments soon after most acquisitions are completed. As a result of the integration of staff support functions, management of customer
relationships, operating processes and the financial impact of funding the acquisitions, we cannot precisely determine the impact of acquisitions on income before taxes and therefore do not report it.      We provide segment data for seven segments, with certain segments combined into sector groupings as shown below:   

Sector/Segment   
      
   Primary types of revenue    
 
    Asset   Wealth Management sector    
 
        Asset Management
segment   
      
             Asset and wealth management fees from:     Institutional
clients     Mutual funds     Private clients              Performance fees              Distribution and servicing fees    
 
        Wealth Management segment

Wealth management fees from high-net-worth individuals and families, family offices and business enterprises, charitable gift programs, and foundations and
endowments    
 
    Institutional Services sector    
 
        Asset Servicing segment   
      
             Asset servicing fees, including:     Institutional trust
and custody fees     Broker-dealer services     Securities lending              Foreign exchange    
 
        Issuer Services segment   
      
             Issuer services fees, including:     Corporate
trust     Depositary receipts     Employee investment plan services     Shareowner services    
 
        Clearing Services segment   
      
             Clearing and execution services fees, including:     Broker-dealer and registered investment     advisor services    
 
        Treasury Services segment

Treasury services fees, including:     Global payment
services     Working capital solutions              Financing-related fees    
 
    Other
segment   
      
             Leasing operations              The activities of Mellon United National Bank              Corporate treasury activities              Global markets and institutional banking services              Business exits              M I expenses    
       
   24     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             Business segment information is reported on a
continuing operations basis for all periods presented. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.      The results of our business segments are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis:       

Revenue amounts reflect fee and other revenue generated by each segment. Fee and other revenue transferred between segments under revenue transfer agreements is
included within other revenue in each segment.      

Revenues and expenses associated with specific client bases are included in those segments. For example, foreign exchange activity associated with clients using
custody products is allocated to the Asset Servicing segment.      

Net interest revenue is allocated to segments based on the yields on the assets and liabilities generated by each segment. We employ a funds transfer pricing system
that matches funds with the specific assets and liabilities of each segment based on their interest sensitivity and maturity characteristics.      

The measure of revenues and profit or loss by a segment has been adjusted to present segment data on an FTE basis.      

Support and other indirect expenses are allocated to segments based on internally-developed methodologies.      

Support agreement charges are recorded in the segment in which the charges occurred.      

The restructuring charge recorded in 2008 was a corporate initiative and therefore was recorded in the Other segment.      

Balance sheet assets and liabilities and their related income or expense are specifically assigned to each segment. Segments with a net liability position have been
allocated assets.      

Goodwill and intangible assets are reflected within individual business segments.      

The operations of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business are included from Oct. 1, 2006, the date on which it was acquired.      

The operations of Mellon Financial are included from July 1, 2007, the effective date of the merger.         The merger with Mellon Financial had a considerable impact on the comparison of business segment results between 2008, 2007 and 2006. The merger significantly impacted
the Asset Management, Wealth Management and Asset Servicing segments and, to a lesser extent, the Issuer Services, Treasury Services and the Other segments. The Clearing Services segment was significantly impacted by the sale of the execution
businesses to BNY ConvergEx in the first quarter of 2008. The Issuer Services segment and Clearing Services segment were significantly impacted by the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the formation of the BNY ConvergEx Group in October 2006,
respectively.      The volatile market environment in 2008 impacted our business segments compared with 2007 as reflected by higher foreign exchange and other
trading activities, higher securities lending revenue and higher net interest revenue. Broad declines in the equity markets in 2008 influenced revenue in the Asset Management, Wealth Management and Asset Servicing segments compared with 2007. Also
in 2008, we elected to support clients impacted by the Lehman bankruptcy, as well as clients impacted by the declining value of certain SIV securities. These support agreements had a significant impact on the 2008 results of the Asset Management and
Asset Servicing segments. Depositary receipts were also strong in 2008, reflecting increased corporate actions and new business. Securities write-downs, the SILO/ LILO charge and M I expenses are corporate level items and are therefore recorded
in the Other segment.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     25   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            The following table presents the value of certain market indices at period end and on an average basis.       

(a)   
   Period end.              Non-program equity trading volumes increased 44%
in 2008 compared with 2007. Average daily U.S. fixed-income trading volume was down 1%. Total debt issuance decreased 28% in 2008 compared with 2007. The issuance of global collateralized debt obligations was down 88% compared with 2007.   
  The period end S P 500 Index decreased 38% at Dec. 31, 2008 versus Dec. 31, 2007. The period end FTSE 100 Index decreased 31%. On a daily average basis,
the S P 500 Index decreased 17% and the FTSE 100 Index decreased 16% in 2008 versus 2007. The period end NASDAQ Composite Index decreased 41% at Dec. 31, 2008 versus Dec. 31, 2007.         
    The changes in the value of market indices impact fee revenue in the Asset and Wealth Management segments and our securities servicing businesses. Using the S P 500 as a proxy for the equity markets, we estimate
that a 100 point change in the value of the S P 500, sustained for one year, would impact fee revenue by approximately 1% and fully diluted EPS on a continuing operations basis by $0.05 per share.      The following consolidating schedules below show the contribution of our segments to our overall profitability.   

(b)    
    Income before taxes divided by total revenue.             
   26     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(c)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

(d)   
   Includes average assets of discontinued operations of $53 million for 2007.          

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      
          Asset and Wealth Management Sector       Asset and Wealth Management fee revenue is dependent on the overall level and
mix of AUM and the management fees expressed in basis points (one-hundredth of one percent) charged for managing those assets. Assets under management were $928 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, a decrease of 17% compared with $1.12 trillion at
Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease primarily   
   
 reflects broad declines in the equity markets and a stronger U.S. dollar, which more than offset strong net asset inflows in money market funds.   
  Performance fees are also earned in the Asset and Wealth Management sector. These fees are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in
excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     27   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The overall level of AUM for a given period is
determined by:       

the beginning level of AUM;      

the net flows of new assets during the period resulting from new business wins and existing client enrichments reduced by losses and withdrawals; and

the impact of market price appreciation or depreciation, the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures and foreign exchange rates.         These components are shown in the changes in market value of AUM table below. The mix of AUM is determined principally by client asset allocation decisions among
equities, fixed income, alternative investments and overlay, and money markets. The trend of this mix is shown in the AUM at period end, by product type, table below.         
    Managed equity assets
typically generate higher percentage fees than money market and fixed-income assets. Also, actively managed assets typically generate higher management fees than indexed or passively managed assets of the same type.      Management fees are typically subject to fee schedules based on the overall level of assets managed for a single client or by individual asset class and style. This is
most prevalent for institutional assets where amounts we manage for individual clients are typically large.      A key driver of organic growth in asset and
wealth management fees is the amount of net new AUM flows. Overall market conditions are also key drivers with a key long-term economic driver being the growth rate of financial assets as measured by the U.S. Federal Reserve. This measure
encompasses both net flows and market appreciation or depreciation in the U.S. markets overall.   

(a)   
   Includes the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.      

(b)   
   Excludes $3 billion subadvised for the Wealth Management segment.      

(c)   
   Excludes private client assets managed in the Asset Management segment.            

   28     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Asset Management segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       BNY Mellon Asset Management is the umbrella
organization for all of our affiliated investment management boutiques and is responsible, through various subsidiaries, for U.S. and non-U.S. retail, intermediary and institutional distribution of investment management and related services. The
investment management boutiques offer a broad range of equity, fixed income, cash and alternative/overlay products. In addition to the investment subsidiaries, BNY Mellon Asset Management includes BNY Mellon Asset Management International, which is
responsible for the distribution of investment management products internationally, and the Dreyfus Corporation, which is responsible for U.S. distribution of retail mutual funds, separate accounts and annuities.         
    We are one of the world s largest asset managers with a top 10 position in both the U.S. and Europe and top 5 in tax-exempt institutional U.S. asset management.      In the first quarter of 2008, we acquired ARX, a leading independent asset management business headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Also in the first quarter of
2008, we sold a portion of the Estabrook Capital Management business which reduced our AUM by $2.4 billion. On Oct. 1, 2008, we sold the assets of Gannett Welsh   Kotler, an investment management subsidiary with approximately $8 billion in
AUM. On Dec. 31, 2008, we acquired the Australian (Ankura Capital) and U.K. (Blackfriars Asset Management) businesses of our asset management joint venture with WestLB. Headquartered in Sydney, Australia, Ankura Capital manages approximately AUS $1
billion, while Blackfriars Asset Management, which is headquartered in London, England, has AUM of $2.3 billion. The impact of these acquisitions is not expected to be material to earnings per share.      The results of the Asset Management segment are mainly driven by the period-end and average levels of assets managed as well as the mix of those assets, as previously
shown. Results for this segment are also impacted by sales of fee-based products such as fixed and variable annuities and separately managed accounts. In addition, performance fees may be generated when the investment performance exceeds various
benchmarks and satisfies other criteria. Expenses in this segment are mainly driven by staffing costs, incentives, distribution and servicing expense, and product distribution costs.       Review of financial results       In 2008, Asset Management had pre-tax income of $221 million compared with pre-tax
income of $502 million in 2007. Excluding intangible amortization, pre-tax income was $476 million in 2008 compared with $650 million in 2007. Results for 2008 were reduced by $335 million of support agreement charges primarily related to commingled
cash funds and money market funds and the severe declines in the global equity markets in 2008, partially offset by the merger with Mellon Financial.      Asset and wealth management revenue in the Asset Management segment was $2.5 billion in 2008 compared with $1.6 billion in 2007. The increase reflects the merger with Mellon Financial and strength  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     29   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 in money market inflows, which more than offset lower market values, long-term outflows and a stronger U.S. dollar.      In 2008, approximately 50% of consolidated asset and wealth management fees generated in the Asset Management segment are from managed mutual funds. These fees are based
on the daily average net assets of each fund and the basis point management fee paid by that fund. Managed mutual fund fee revenue was $1.3 billion in 2008 compared with $637 million in 2007. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon
Financial and strong money market inflows, reflecting a flight to quality as customers looked for safe investments during the market turbulence in 2008.      Performance fees were $83 million in 2008 compared with $93 million in 2007. The decline was primarily due to a lower level of fees generated from certain equity and alternative strategies.      Distribution and servicing fees were $371 million in 2008 compared with $193 million in 2007. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon Financial and strong
money market inflows, partially offset by redemptions in certain international funds.      Other fee revenue was a loss of $167 million in 2008 compared with a
loss of $2 million in 2007. The year-over-year decline was due to $86 million of seed capital investment losses and write-downs related to securities previously purchased from funds managed by the investment boutiques.      The Asset Management segment generated 41% of non-U.S. revenue in 2008.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization and support agreement charges) was $2.1 billion in 2008 compared with $1.2 billion in 2007. The increase compared with 2007 primarily resulted from the merger with Mellon Financial, the
acquisition of ARX and the write-down of seed capital investments related to a formerly affiliated hedge fund manager, partially offset by overall expense management efforts, including lower incentives, in response to the current operating
environment.       2007 compared with 2006       Income before
taxes was $502 million in 2007, compared with $135 million in 2006. Income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization) was $650   
   
 million in 2007 compared with $150 million in 2006. Fee and other revenue increased $1.5 billion, primarily due to the merger with Mellon Financial, net new
business and improved equity markets. The increase in distribution and servicing fees reflects the merger with Mellon Financial. The decrease in other fee revenue principally reflects the lower market value of seed capital investments in 2007.
Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $1 billion in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due to the merger with Mellon Financial and higher incentive compensation, temporary labor, technology, legal expenses and the
write-off of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager.       Wealth Management segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       In the Wealth Management segment, we offer a
full array of investment management, wealth and estate planning and private banking solutions to help clients protect, grow and transfer their wealth. Clients include high net worth individuals and families, family offices  

30     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 and business enterprises, charitable gift programs and endowments and foundations. BNY Mellon Wealth Management is a top ten U.S. wealth manager with $139
billion in client assets. We serve our clients through an expansive network of offices in 16 states and 3 countries.      The results of the Wealth Management
segment are driven by the level and mix of assets managed and under custody and the level of activity in client accounts.      Net interest revenue is
determined by the level of interest rate spread between loans and deposits. Expenses of this segment are driven mainly by staff expense in the investment management, sales, service and support groups.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $190 million in
2008 compared with $121 million in 2007. Income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization and support agreement charges) was $259 million in 2008 compared with $149 million in 2007. Results compared with 2007 reflect the merger
with Mellon Financial, net new business and well controlled noninterest expense, partially offset by a $15 million charge to support certain clients holding auction rate securities recorded in 2008. Excluding this charge and intangible amortization,
Wealth Management generated approximately 700 basis points of positive operating leverage compared with 2007, driven by business growth and expense management.      Total fee and other revenue was $624 million in 2008 compared with $423 million in 2007. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon Financial, record new business, organic growth and higher capital markets related fees,
partially offset by sharp declines in the equity markets in 2008.      Net interest revenue increased $89 million compared with 2007, reflecting the merger
with Mellon Financial, higher deposit levels, improved deposit spreads and higher loan levels due to growth in the mortgage portfolio. Average loan levels were up $2.1 billion, or 76%, due to new business and the merger with Mellon Financial.
     Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization and support agreement charges) increased $180 million compared with 2007, primarily reflecting the
merger with Mellon Financial and the   
   
 annual merit salary increase, partially offset by merger-related synergies and strong expense control.      Client assets under management were $139 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $170 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease resulted from lower market levels,
partially offset by new business. Net long-term inflows totaled $12 billion in 2008.       2007 compared with 2006       Income before taxes was $121 million in 2007 compared with $50 million in 2006. Excluding intangible amortization, income before taxes increased $99 million. Fee and
other revenue increased $225 million due to the merger with Mellon Financial, organic growth, record net new business and market performance. Net interest revenue increased $51 million as a result of the merger with Mellon Financial and increased
deposit levels. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $175 million due to the merger with Mellon Financial as well as expenses associated with new distribution channels.       Institutional Services Sector       As of Dec. 31, 2008, our assets
under custody and administration totaled $20.2 trillion compared with $23.1 trillion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease in assets under custody and administration primarily reflects weaker market values and the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar, which more than offset the benefit of new business conversions. Equity securities were 25% and fixed-income securities were 75% of the assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with 32% equity securities and 68%
fixed-income securities at Dec. 31, 2007. The shift in composition of assets under custody from Dec. 31, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in equity valuations. Assets under custody and administration at
Dec. 31, 2008 consisted of assets related to the custody, mutual funds, and corporate trust businesses of $15.9 trillion, broker- dealer services assets of $3.0 trillion, and all other assets of $1.3 trillion.      Market value of securities on loan at Dec. 31, 2008 decreased to $341 billion, from $633 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease reflects overall de-leveraging in
the financial markets and lower market valuations resulting from the large declines in the equity markets in 2008.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     31   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)   
   Includes the assets under custody or administration of CIBC Mellon Global Securities Services Company, a joint venture with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, of $697
billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and $989 billion at Dec. 31, 2007.      

(b)   
   Represents the total amount of securities on loan, both cash and non-cash, managed by the Asset Servicing segment.               Asset Servicing segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       The Asset Servicing segment includes global
custody, global fund services, securities lending, global liquidity services, outsourcing, government securities clearance, collateral management and credit-related services and other linked revenues, principally foreign exchange. Clients include
corporate and public retirement funds, foundations and endowments and global financial institutions including banks, broker- dealers, investment managers, insurance companies and mutual funds.         
    The results of the Asset Servicing segment are driven by a number of factors which include the level of transactional activity, the extent of services provided including custody, accounting, fund administration, daily
valuations, performance measurement and risk analytics, securities lending and investment manager backoffice outsourcing, and the market value of assets under administration and custody. Market interest rates impact both securities lending revenue
and the earnings on client cash balances. Broker-dealer fees depend on the level of activity in the fixed income and equity markets and the financing needs of customers, which are typically higher when the equity and fixed-income markets are active.
Also, the use of tri-party repo arrangements continues to remain a key revenue driver in broker-dealer services. Foreign exchange trading revenues are influenced by the volume of client transactions and the spread realized on these transactions,
market volatility in major currencies, the level of cross-border assets held in custody for clients, the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients. Segment
expenses are principally driven by staffing levels and technology investments necessary to process transaction volumes. Fees paid to sub-custodians are driven by market values of global assets and related transaction volumes.      We are one of the leading global securities servicing providers with a total of $20.2 trillion of assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2008. We
continue to maintain our number one ranking in the three major global custody surveys. We are one of the largest providers of fund services in the world, servicing $4.5 trillion in assets. We also service 49% of the funds in the U.S. exchange-traded
funds      marketplace. We are the largest custodian for U.S. public pension plans. BNY Mellon Asset Servicing services 46% of the top 50 endowments.

32     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             We are a leading custodian in the U.K. and
service 30% of U.K. pensions. European asset servicing continues to grow across all products, reflecting significant cross-border investment interest and capital flow. In securities lending, we are one of the largest lenders of U.S. Treasury
securities and depositary receipts and service a lending pool of $2.4 trillion in 30 markets around the world. We are one of the largest global providers of performance and risk analytics with $9.6 trillion in assets under measurement.
     Our broker-dealer services business is a leader in global clearance, clearing equity and fixed income transactions in more than 100 markets. We clear
over 50% of U.S. Government securities transactions. We are a leading collateral management agent with $1.8 trillion in tri-party balances worldwide at Dec. 31, 2008, up from $1.6 trillion at Dec. 31, 2007.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was
$1.7 billion in 2008 compared with $1.2 billion in 2007. The increase compared with 2007 reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, net new business, organic growth, higher securities lending revenue and the acquisition of the remaining 50%
interest in the BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. Results in 2008 were also impacted by $541 million of charges for support agreements related to the support of various securities lending customers, commingled cash sweep funds and a commingled
short-term NAV fund, as well as lower market levels.      Total fee and other revenue increased $1.5 billion in 2008 compared with 2007 driven by the
merger with Mellon Financial, net new business, cross sells and organic growth, higher securities lending revenue, higher foreign exchange and other trading revenue and the impact of the fourth quarter 2007 acquisition of the remaining 50% interest
in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. This increase was partially offset by lower market values.      Securities lending revenue increased $421 million compared
to 2007. The increase primarily reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, favorable spreads in the short-term credit markets and the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. Market value of securities lent
decreased $307 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2007 reflecting overall de-leveraging in the financial markets and lower market valuations.         
    Foreign exchange and other trading activity increased $540
million compared with 2007, reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial as well as significant increases in currency volatility and higher client volumes. On a daily basis, the Company monitors a volatility index of global currency using a basket of
30 major currencies. In 2008, the volatility of this index was above median for most of the year and significantly above median in the fourth quarter. In 2007, the volatility of the index was below median in the first half of the year, recovering to
near median in the second half of the year.      Net interest revenue increased $393 million compared with 2007, primarily driven by the merger with Mellon
Financial, strong deposit growth and increased deposit spreads. Deposit growth reflects the flight to quality experienced by all segments of the Company, as well as additional deposits received in 2007 as part of the Acquired Corporate Trust
Business.      The Asset Servicing segment generated 40% of non-U.S. revenue in 2008.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization and support agreement charges) increased $740 million compared with 2007. The increase in expenses reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, the acquisition
of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V., the 2008 annual merit salary increase, a $38 million operational error and higher operating expenses to support new business, organic growth, increased foreign exchange income and
higher transaction volumes. Partially offsetting the increase were merger-related synergies.       2007 compared with 2006       Income before taxes increased $595 million in 2007 compared with 2006. Total fee and other revenue in this segment increased 71% in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily due
to the merger with Mellon Financial, increased transaction volumes related to market volatility, new business and organic growth. Securities lending fees increased in 2007 compared with 2006 due to the merger with Mellon Financial, higher loan
balances and wider spreads. Revenues from foreign exchange and other trading activity were also up significantly reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial, record customer volumes and foreign currency volatility. Net interest revenue increased
$217 million in 2007 compared with 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial, deposit  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     33   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 growth and improved spreads. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization and support agreement charges) increased $839 million compared with 2006,
primarily due to the merger with Mellon Financial, higher staff expense in support of new business, increased sub-custodian expenses related to higher asset levels, higher joint venture pass-through payments, higher expenses in support of growth
initiatives and a loss related to the purchase of SIV securities from a commingled NAV fund.       Issuer Services segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       The Issuer Services segment provides a diverse
array of products and services to global fixed income and equity issuers.      As the world s leading provider of corporate trust and agency services, the
Company services more than $11 trillion in outstanding debt from 57 locations, in 19 countries, worldwide. Along with our subsidiaries and affiliates, we are the number one overall provider of corporate trust services for all major debt categories,
including conventional, structured and specialty debt. We serve as the depositary for more than 1,300 sponsored American and Global Depositary Receipt programs, with a 64% market share, acting in partnership with leading companies from
63 countries. In addition to top-ranked transfer agency services,   
   
 BNY Mellon Shareowner Services offers a comprehensive suite of equity solutions ranging from record keeping and corporate actions processing,
demutualizations, direct investment, dividend reinvestment, proxy solicitation and employee stock plan administration.      Fee revenue in the Issuer Services
segment depends on:       

the volume of issuance of fixed income securities;      

depositary receipts issuance and cancellation volume;      

corporate actions impacting depositary receipts; and      

stock transfer, corporate actions and equity trading volumes.         Expenses in the Issuer Services segment are driven by staff, equipment, and space required to support the services provided by the segment.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was up 7% to $1.15 billion in 2008 from $1.07 billion in 2007.
The increase reflects the merger with Mellon Financial as well as growth in Depositary Receipts and non-U.S. Corporate Trust, partially offset by $49 million of credit monitoring charges for lost tapes recorded in 2008.      Total fee and other revenue increased $191 million, or 12%, in 2008 compared with 2007, reflecting growth in Depositary Receipts, Corporate Trust and Shareowner
Services fees. Depositary Receipts benefited from increased corporate actions and new business. The increase in Corporate Trust was driven by an increase in non-U.S. Corporate Trust revenue as well as market share gains. Corporate Trust is also
playing a vital role in supporting governments  stabilization efforts in North America and Europe to bring liquidity back to the financial markets. In 2008, the U.S. Department of the Treasury selected the Company as the sole provider of a
broad range of custodial and Corporate Trust services to support the government s TARP program. Also, in 2008, we assisted in the issuance of $80 billion of government guaranteed debt for 12 of the major financial institutions across Europe. In
2009, BNY Trust Company of Canada was appointed trustee, paying agent and registrar for the restructuring of Canada s non-bank-sponsored asset-backed commercial paper market. The increase in Shareowner Services fees was due to the merger with
Mellon Financial and an  

34     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 increased level of revenue from corporate actions. The increase in other revenue was impacted by increased revenue sharing related to the distribution of
Dreyfus products and higher foreign exchange trading revenue.      Net interest revenue increased $143 million in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily reflecting
a significant increase in deposits in both the Corporate Trust and Shareowner Services businesses, driven by the transition of deposits in 2007 related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and increased client volumes, as well as the merger with
Mellon Financial. Average deposits were $30.5 billion in 2008 compared with $21.4 billion in 2007.      The Issuer Services segment generated 40% of non-U.S.
revenue in 2008.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $248 million in 2008 compared with 2007 reflecting the merger with
Mellon Financial, the credit monitoring charges related to lost tapes recorded in Shareowner Services, business growth and the impact of the second quarter of 2008 annual merit salary increase, partially offset by merger-related synergies.
      2007 compared with 2006       Income before taxes was up
77% to $1.1 billion in 2007 from $604 million in 2006.      Total fee and other revenue increased $699 million in 2007 compared with 2006. Issuer services fees
exhibited strong growth compared with 2006. The acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the merger with Mellon Financial significantly impacted comparisons of 2007 to 2006. Issuer services fees increased reflecting higher Depositary
Receipts resulting from higher servicing and dividend fees. The growth in Corporate Trust resulted from the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, while growth in Shareowner Services was due to the merger with Mellon Financial.      Net interest revenue increased $309 million in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily reflecting the impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business as well as higher
deposits in Shareowner Services.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $487 million in 2007 compared with 2006, reflecting the
impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, the merger with   
   
 Mellon Financial and expenses associated with revenue growth in Depositary Receipts and Shareowner Services.       Clearing Services segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       Our Clearing Services segment consists of
the Pershing clearing business and a 33.8% equity interest in BNY ConvergEx which includes the B-Trade and G-Trade execution businesses that were sold by the Company to BNY ConvergEx on Feb. 1, 2008. The B-Trade and G-Trade execution businesses
contributed approximately $215 million of revenue and $45 million of pre-tax income in 2007. These businesses were sold at book value.      Our Pershing LLC
and Pershing Advisor Solutions LLC subsidiaries provide financial institutions and independent registered investment advisors with operational support, trading services, flexible technology, an expansive array of investment solutions practice
management support and service excellence. Pershing services more than 1,150 retail and institutional financial organizations and  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     35   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 independent registered investment advisors who collectively represent more than five million investors.      Pershing Prime Services delivers an integrated suite of prime brokerage solutions, including expansive access to securities lending, dedicated client service, powerful
technology and reporting tools, robust cash management products, global execution and order management capabilities, and additional integrated solutions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.      Through our affiliate, BNY ConvergEx, we provide liquidity and execution management, investment technologies and intermediary and clearing services to more than 6,000
institutional investor clients in over 100 global markets. BNY ConvergEx provides a full suite of global electronic, portfolio and sales trading capabilities, executing more than 275 million U.S. shares and approximately $672 million in
non-U.S. principal each day and clearing more than one million trades daily.      Revenue in this segment includes broker-dealer, registered investment advisor
services, prime brokerage services and electronic trading services, which are primarily driven by:       

trading volumes, particularly those related to retail customers;      

overall market levels; and      

the amount of assets under administration.         A
substantial amount of revenue in this segment is generated from non-transactional activities, such as asset gathering, mutual funds, money market funds and retirement programs, administration and other services.      Segment expenses are driven by staff, equipment and space required to support the services provided by the segment and the cost of execution and clearance of trades.
        
     Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $500 million in
2008 compared with $448 million in 2007. The increase reflects growth in money market mutual fund fees, partially offset by the first quarter 2008 sale of the execution businesses.      Total fee and other revenue decreased 2% in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease reflects the sale of the execution businesses and a settlement received ($28 million) in 2007 for the early termination of a contract,
partially offset by strong growth in trading activity along with growth in money market mutual fund fees and record new business resulting from the market disruptions in the second half of 2008.      Net interest revenue increased $10 million resulting from higher customer balances and wider spreads.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) decreased $75 million in 2008 compared with 2007, reflecting the sale of the execution businesses, partially offset by increased expenses incurred in support of
business growth.       2007 compared with 2006       Income
before taxes increased $8 million in 2007 compared with 2006. Clearing and execution servicing fees decreased $24 million compared with 2006 reflecting the BNY ConvergEx transaction which was primarily offset by higher market activity and volumes
which increased clearing-related revenues, as well as continued growth in money market and mutual fund positions. Net interest revenue increased $26 million compared with 2006, primarily reflecting higher levels of customer deposits, partially
offset by the BNY ConvergEx transaction. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $21 million in 2007 compared with 2006, reflecting higher salaries and benefits, clearing costs, bank technology charges and outside services
which more than offset the reduction in expenses resulting from the BNY ConvergEx transaction.   
       
   36     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Treasury Services segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       The Treasury Services segment includes
treasury services, global payment services, working capital solutions, capital markets business and large corporate banking.      Treasury services revenue is
directly influenced by the volume of transactions and payments processed, loan levels, types of service provided, net interest revenue earned from deposit balances generated by activity across our business operations and the value of the credit
derivatives portfolio. Treasury services revenue is indirectly influenced by other factors including market volatility in major currencies and the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other transactions undertaken by corporate
and institutional clients. Segment expenses are driven by staff, equipment and space required to support the services provided, as well as variable expenses such as temporary staffing and operating services in support of volume increases.
     Treasury Services offers leading-edge technology, innovative products, and industry expertise to help its clients optimize cash flow, manage liquidity,
and make payments around the world in more than 100 different countries. We maintain a global network of   
   
 branches, representative offices and correspondent banks to provide comprehensive payment services including funds transfer, cash management, trade services
and liquidity management. We are one of the largest funds transfer banks in the U.S., transferring over $1.8 trillion daily via more than 170,000 wire transfers.      Our corporate lending strategy is to focus on those clients and industries that are major users of securities servicing and treasury services. Revenue from our lending activities is primarily driven by loan levels and
spreads over funding costs.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $860 million in 2008, compared with $602 million in 2007. The increase reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, higher fee and other revenue and higher net interest revenue, partially offset by an increase in
expenses primarily due to the merger with Mellon Financial.      Total fee and other revenue increased $228 million in 2008. Treasury services fees were
up $173 million in 2008 reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial as well as higher processing volumes in global payment and cash management services. Other revenue increased $55 million reflecting higher capital markets related revenue.
     The increase in net interest revenue compared with 2007 reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, higher loan and deposit levels including increased
dollar clearing client activity in Asia and the Middle East, and increased spreads.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased
$171 million in 2008 compared with 2007, primarily due to the merger with Mellon Financial, business growth and charges related to auction rate securities in institutional accounts, partially offset by merger-related synergies.       2007 compared with 2006       Income before taxes increased $155 million
in 2007 compared to 2006. Total fee and other revenue increased $177 million in 2007, reflecting higher treasury services revenue and higher foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue. Net interest revenue increased $120 million in 2007
compared with 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial, higher deposit levels and wider spreads. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     37   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 amortization) increased $133 million in 2007, primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial, increased salaries, incentives and brokerage
commissions.       Other segment        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          Business description       In 2008, the financial results of M1BB and
MUNB were reclassified from the Wealth Management segment to the Other segment. This change reflects the sale of M1BB in June 2008, as well as our focus on reducing non-core activities. All prior periods have been reclassified.      The Other segment primarily includes:       

the results of the leasing portfolio;      

corporate treasury activities;      

the results of MUNB and M1BB;      

business exits; and      

corporate overhead.            
    Revenue primarily reflects:       

net interest revenue from the leasing portfolio;      

any residual interest income resulting from transfer pricing algorithms relative to actual results;      

revenue from corporate and bank owned life insurance; and      

gains (losses) associated with valuation of securities and other assets.         Noninterest expense includes:       

M I expenses;      

the restructuring charge;      

direct expenses supporting leasing, investing and funding activities; and      

certain corporate overhead not directly attributable to the operations of other segments.          Review of financial results       Income before taxes was a loss of $2.6
billion in 2008 compared with a loss of $637 million in 2007.      The Other segment includes the following activity in 2008:       

a $1.5 billion pre-tax loss associated with the write-down of investments in the securities portfolio;      

a $489 million pre-tax loss related to the SILO/ LILO settlement recorded in net interest revenue. Excluding this charge, net interest revenue increased compared
with 2007, reflecting the changing interest rate environment on Corporate Treasury allocations;      

a $181 million restructuring charge related to our previously announced global workforce reduction program. This program is expected to reduce our workforce by
approximately 4%, or 1,800 positions. For further information, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

38     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

M I expenses of $471 million associated with the Mellon Financial merger. These expenses include amounts for integration/conversion costs ($302 million),
personnel related costs ($151 million) and one-time costs ($18 million).          2007 compared with 2006       Income before taxes decreased $595 million in 2007 compared with 2006. Total fee and other revenue decreased $118 million compared with 2006, reflecting a $192
million (pre-tax) securities loss recorded in 2007. Net interest revenue increased $64 million in 2007 compared with 2006, due to the merger with Mellon Financial and the positive impact of the changing interest rate environment on corporate
treasury allocations. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization and M I expenses) increased $219 million in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily due to the merger with Mellon Financial.         International operations       Our primary international
activities consist of securities servicing, asset management and global payment services.      Our clients include some of the world s largest pension
funds and institutions, local authorities, treasuries, family offices and individual investors. Through our global network of offices, we have developed a deep understanding of local requirements and cultural needs and we pride ourselves in
providing dedicated service through our multilingual sales, marketing and client service teams.      We conduct business through subsidiaries, branches, and
representative offices in 34 countries. We have major operational centers based in Brussels, Cork, Dublin, Luxembourg, Singapore, throughout the United Kingdom including London, Manchester, Brentwood, Edinburgh and Poole, and Chennai and Pune in
India.         
    BNY Mellon Asset Servicing is a leading global custodian. At Dec. 31, 2008, our cross-border assets under custody
were $7.5 billion compared with $10.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. This decrease primarily reflects lower market values as the FTSE 100 and MSCI EAFE      indices decreased 31% and 45%,
respectively.      BNY Mellon Asset Management operates on a multi-boutique model bringing investors the
skills of our specialist boutique asset managers, which together manage investments spanning virtually all asset classes. We are one of the largest global asset managers. In Europe, we are the 7   th    largest asset manager active in the European marketplace and we are the U.K. s 12   th    largest mutual fund manager. We have a rapidly growing presence in Asia and Latin America and now rank among the top 20 foreign asset managers in Japan.      At Dec. 31, 2008, approximately 18% of the Company s AUM were managed by our international operations, compared with 23% in 2007. The decrease primarily resulted from lower market values, which more than offset new business wins.
     We are the sponsor for more than 1,300 Depositary Receipt programs for over 900 issuer clients in more than 60 countries. We also provide corporate trust
and agency services for all major debt categories across conventional, structured credit and specialty debt through 18 non-U.S. locations.      We have over 50
years of experience providing trade and cash services to financial institutions and central banks outside of the U.S. In addition, we offer a broad range of servicing and fiduciary products to financial institutions, corporations and central banks
depending on the state of market development. In emerging markets, we lead with global payments and issuer services, introducing other products as the markets mature. For more established markets, our focus is on global, not local, asset servicing
products and alternative investments.      We are a leading provider and major market maker in the area of foreign exchange and interest-rate risk management
services, dealing in over 100 currencies.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     39   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Our financial results, as well as our level of assets under custody and management, are impacted by the translation of financial results denominated in
foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar. We are primarily impacted by activities denominated in the British Pound, and to a lesser extent, the Euro. If the U.S. Dollar depreciates against these currencies, the translation impact is a higher level
of fee revenue, net interest revenue, operating expense and assets under management and custody. Conversely, if the U.S. Dollar appreciates, the translated levels of fee revenue, net interest revenue, operating expense and assets under
management and custody will be lower.       

International clients accounted for 37% of revenue and 91% of income from continuing operations in 2008 compared with 32% of revenue and 37% of income from
continuing operations in 2007. Excluding the impact of the SILO/LILO charges and securities write-downs, international clients accounted for 32% of revenue in 2008. Excluding the impact of SILO/LILO charges, securities write-downs and support
agreement charges, international clients accounted for 39% of income from continuing operations in 2008. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had approximately 8,000 employees in EMEA, 4,200 employees in APAC and 400 employees in other global locations, primarily
Brazil.       International financial data       Foreign activity includes
asset and wealth management and securities servicing fee revenue generating businesses, foreign exchange trading activity, loans and other revenue producing assets and transactions in which the customer is domiciled outside of the United States
and/or the foreign activity is resident at a foreign entity.   
        Foreign revenue, income before income taxes, net income and assets from foreign operations on a continuing operations basis are shown in the table below:       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Domestic income from continuing operations in 2008 was reduced by securities write-downs, SILO/LILO charges and support agreement charges.      

(c)   
   2008 includes revenue of approximately $2.0 billion and assets of approximately $27.1 billion of international operations domiciled in the U.K., which is 14% of total revenue and
11% of total assets.              In 2008, revenues from EMEA were $3.6 billion, compared with $2.8 billion in 2007 and $1.5 billion in 2006. Revenues from EMEA were up 30% in 2008 compared to 2007. The
increase in 2008 reflects the impact of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. and the   
   
 merger with Mellon Financial. Revenue from EMEA in 2008 was spread across most of our segments. Asset Servicing generated 48%, Asset Management 22%, Issuer
Services 19% , Treasury Services 6% and Clearing Services 5%. Net income from EMEA was $859 million in 2008 compared with $509 million in   
       
   40     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 2007 and $286 million in 2006. Revenues from APAC were $794 million in 2008 compared with $553 million in 2007 and $338 million in 2006. The increase in APAC
revenue in 2008 resulted from the merger with Mellon Financial and new business. Revenue from APAC in 2008 was generated by the following segments: Asset Management 32%, Asset Servicing 30%, Treasury Services 21%, Issuer Services 15% and Clearing
Services 2%. Net income from APAC was $247 million in 2008 compared with $172 million in 2007 and $72 million in 2006. Net income from EMEA and APAC were driven by the same factors affecting revenue. In addition, net income from EMEA in 2008
compared with 2007 was negatively impacted by the strength of the dollar versus the British Pound. Conversely, net income from EMEA in 2007 compared with 2006 was positively impacted by the strength of the Euro and British Pound versus the dollar.
        
     Cross-border risk       Foreign assets are subject to general risks attendant to the
conduct of business in each foreign country, including economic uncertainties and each foreign government s regulations. In addition, our foreign assets may be affected by changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency
exchange rates or other factors. Cross-border outstandings include loans, acceptances, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest- bearing investments, and other monetary assets which are denominated in dollars or other non-local
currency. Also included are local currency outstandings not hedged or funded by local borrowings.   
        The table below shows our cross-border outstandings for the last three years where cross-border exposure exceeds 1.00% of total assets (denoted with  * ) or
0.75% of total assets (denoted with  ** ).       

(a)   
   Primarily European Floating Rate Notes.                 Critical accounting estimates
      Our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Summary of Significant Accounting and
Reporting Policies . Our more critical accounting estimates are those related to the allowance for credit losses, fair   

value of financial instruments and derivatives, other-than-temporary impairment, goodwill and other intangibles, and pension accounting. In addition to
 Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, further information on policies related to the allowance for credit losses can be found under   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     41   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  in the MD A section. Further information on the valuation of derivatives and securities where
quoted market prices are not available can be found under  Fair value of financial instruments  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on goodwill and intangible assets can be found in  Goodwill and
intangibles  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information on pensions can be found in  Employee benefit plans  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Reserve for loan losses and reserve for unfunded commitments       The
allowance for credit losses and allowance for lending related commitments consist of four elements: (1) an allowance for impaired credits; (2) an allowance for higher risk rated loans and exposures; (3) an allowance for pass rated loans
and exposures; and (4) an unallocated allowance based on general economic conditions and certain risk factors in our individual portfolio and markets. Further discussion of the four elements can be found under  Asset quality and allowance
for credit losses  in the Management s Discussion and Analysis section.      The allowance for credit losses represents management s estimate of
probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. Probability of default ratings are assigned after analyzing the credit quality of each borrower/ counterparty and our internal
ratings are generally consistent with external ratings agencies default databases. Loss given default ratings are driven by the collateral, structure, and seniority of each individual asset and are consistent with external loss given
default/recovery databases. The portion of the allowance related to impaired credits is based on the present value of expected future cash flows; however, as a practical expedient, it may be based on the credit s observable market price.
Additionally, it may be based on the fair value of collateral if the credit is collateral dependent. Changes in the estimates of probability of default, risk ratings, loss given default/recovery rates, and cash flows could have a direct impact on
the allocated allowance for loan losses.      To the extent actual results differ from forecasts or management s judgment, the allowance for credit losses
may be greater or less than future charge-offs.         
 
  We consider it difficult to quantify the impact of changes in forecast on our allowance for credit losses. Nevertheless, we believe the following discussion may enable
investors to better understand the variables that drive the allowance for credit losses.      A key variable in determining the allowance is management s
judgment in determining the size of the unallocated allowance. At Dec. 31, 2008, the unallocated allowance was $62 million, or 12% of the total allowance. At Dec. 31, 2008, if the unallocated allowance, as a percent of total allowance, was 5% higher
or lower, the allowance would have increased approximately $32 million or decreased approximately $26 million.      The credit rating assigned to each credit
is another significant variable in determining the allowance. If each credit were rated one grade better, the allowance would have decreased by $122 million, while if each credit were rated one grade worse, the allowance would have increased by $367
million. Similarly, if the loss given default were one rating worse, the allowance would have increased by $20 million, while if the loss given default were one rating better, the allowance would have decreased by $59 million. For impaired credits,
if the fair value of the loans were 10% higher or lower, the allowance would have decreased or increased by $5 million, respectively.       Fair value of
financial instruments       On Jan. 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS 157 and SFAS 159. For further information, see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.      SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities measured
at fair value. The new standard provides a consistent definition of fair value, which focuses on exit price, and prioritizes within a measurement of fair value the use of market-based inputs over entity-specific inputs. The standard also establishes
a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. SFAS 157 nullifies the guidance in EITF 02-3, which required deferral of profit at
inception of a derivative transaction in the absence of observable data supporting the valuation technique. The standard also eliminates large position discounts for financial instruments quoted in active markets and requires consideration of our
own credit quality when valuing liabilities.   
       
   42     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Fair value   Securities        Level 1    
  Recent quoted prices from exchange transactions are used for debt and equity securities that are actively traded on exchanges and for U.S. Treasury securities and
U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over the counter markets. We include these securities in Level 1 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy.       Level 2       For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources
with reasonable levels of price transparency that employ financial models or obtain comparisons to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices. Model-based pricing performed by the pricing sources uses observable inputs for
interest rates, paydowns, default rates, home price appreciation or depreciation (severity), foreign exchange rates, option volatilities and other factors. Securities included in this category that are affected by the lack of market liquidity
include our Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities, prime residential mortgage-backed securities, subprime residential mortgage-backed securities, European floating rate notes and commercial mortgage-backed securities. In addition, we have
significant investments in more actively traded agency mortgage-backed securities and the pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major inter-dealer brokers.      The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the interdealer brokers.      For securities with bond insurance, the pricing sources analyze the financial strength of the insurance provider and include that information in the fair value
assessment determination for such securities.      The pricing sources provide an evaluation that represents their good faith opinion, based on information
available, as to what a buyer in the marketplace would pay for a security (typically in an institutional round lot position) in a current sale. Given that, on average, less than 1% of the outstanding U.S. dollar debt trades on any given day, the
pricing sources generally draw parallels from   
   
 current market activity to generate evaluations for the majority of issues that have not traded. They discontinue pricing any specific security whenever they
determine there is insufficient observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price. The pricing sources did not discontinue pricing for any securities in our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2008.      The prices provided by pricing sources are subject to review and challenges by industry participants, including ourselves.       Level 3       Where we have used our own cash flow models and estimates
to value the securities, we classify them in Level 3 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy. Our Level 3 securities represent 1% of our securities recorded at fair value and include certain asset-backed CDOs and other retained interests in securitization
transactions.      For details of our securities by SFAS 157 hierarchy level, see Note 24 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      More than 99% of our securities are valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Approximately 1% of our securities are priced based on
non-binding dealer quotes and are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.       Fair value   Derivative financial instruments    
   Level 1       We include derivative financial instruments that are
actively traded on exchanges, principally foreign exchange futures and forward contracts, in Level 1 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy.       Level 2    
  The majority of our derivative financial instruments are priced using the Company s internal models which use observable inputs for interest rates, pay-downs
(both actual and expected), foreign exchange rates, option volatilities and other factors. The valuation process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns, and results of stress tests.
Substantially all of our model-priced derivative financial instruments are included in Level 2 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     43   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Level 3       Certain interest rate swaps with counterparties
that are highly structured entities require significant judgment and analysis to adjust the value determined by standard pricing models. These interest rate swaps are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and compose less than 1% of our
derivative financial instruments.      In order to test the appropriateness of the valuations, we subject the models to review and approval by an independent
internal risk management function, benchmark the models against similar instruments and validate model estimates to actual cash transactions. In addition, we perform detailed reviews and analyses of profit and loss. Valuation adjustments are
determined and controlled by a function independent of the area initiating the risk position. As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain products becomes more transparent, we refine our valuation methods. Any changes to the
valuation models are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.      To confirm that our valuation policies are consistent with exit price as
prescribed by SFAS 157, we reviewed our securities and derivative valuations using recent transactions in the marketplace, pricing services and the results of similar types of transactions. As a result of maximizing observable inputs as required by
SFAS 157, in 2008 we began to reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions. Accordingly, the valuation of
our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as those of our counterparties. The cumulative effect of making this derivative valuation adjustment was required by SFAS 157 to be recorded in our
earnings beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and decreased foreign exchange and other trading revenue $46 million in 2008.      For details of our
derivative financial instruments by SFAS 157 hierarchy level, see Note 24 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Fair value option  
     SFAS 159 provides the option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm
commitments,   
   
 and written loan commitments. Under SFAS 159, fair value is used for both the initial and subsequent measurement of the designated assets, liabilities and
commitments, with the changes in fair value recognized in income. Effective Jan. 1, 2008, we elected the fair value option for $390 million of existing loans and unfunded loan commitments where the related credit risks are partially managed
utilizing other financial instruments which are fair valued in earnings and, as a result, we recorded a cumulative effect decrease to retained earnings of $36 million. Subsequently, $280 million was repaid in full; accordingly, as of Dec. 31, 2008,
only $110 million of unfunded loan commitments were recorded at fair value. These unfunded loan commitments are valued using quotes from dealers in the loan markets, and we include these in Level 3 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy. See Note 25 to the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure regarding SFAS 159. Also in 2008, we elected fair value accounting for other short-term investments   U.S. government-backed commercial paper ($5.6 billion) and borrowings from
Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper ($5.6 billion). These instruments are valued using pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency, and are included in Level 2 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy.       Fair value   Judgments       In times of illiquid markets and
financial stress, actual prices and valuations may significantly diverge from results predicted by models. In addition, other factors can affect our estimate of fair value, including market dislocations, incorrect model assumptions, and unexpected
correlations.      These valuation methods could expose us to materially different results should the models used or underlying assumptions be inaccurate. See
 Basis of Presentation  in Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Other-than-temporary impairment       We routinely conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each investment security that has an unrealized loss to determine whether OTTI has occurred. Almost all
mortgage-backed securities included in our investment securities portfolio are valued using pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Economic models, in conjunction with pricing sources, are used to determine whether an OTTI has
occurred on these securities. Specifically,  

44     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 for each non-agency residential mortgage-backed security in the investment portfolio (including but not limited to those whose fair value is less than their
amortized cost basis), an extensive, regular review is conducted to determine if an OTTI has occurred. The scope of this review includes all factors relevant to a possible finding that losses from the underlying residential mortgages might directly
impact the investment security, including, among other elements: a thorough evaluation of the credit quality and performance of the security s mortgage collateral; the total credit enhancement, including the current level of subordination
protecting the security; a vintage- and sector-specific estimation of the losses expected from the underlying collateral; the timing and velocity of these expected losses and their effect on the projected future cash flows of the security; as well
as macro-economic considerations such as, most pertinently, the current and expected decline in home prices on both a national and regional basis. An important driver in the value of mortgage-backed securities in the market is peak-to-trough home
values. The peak-to-trough estimates are determined by using several independent sources, including: forecasts of future home price appreciation rates, housing sales data, housing inventory levels, and other significant housing market trends, as
well as the forward curve for interest rates. During 2008, housing market indicators and the broader economy deteriorated significantly. Therefore, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we adjusted our modeling assumptions to reflect this further
deterioration. Accordingly, we changed the modeling assumptions on all Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) with the primary changes being on the default rates. In addition, to properly reflect the declining value of homes in the current
foreclosure environment, the Company adjusted its RMBS loss severity assumptions to decrease the amount it expects to receive to cover the value of the original loan. If principal and interest are not expected to be paid, we record the difference
between the carrying value and the fair value as a charge to earnings. If actual delinquencies, default rates and loss severity assumptions worsen, we would expect additional impairment losses to be recorded in future periods.      The HELOC portfolio holdings are regularly evaluated for potential OTTI. The HELOC securities are guaranteed, with credit enhancement provided by a combination of excess
spread, over-collaterali-zation, subordination, and a note insurance policy provided by a monoline insurer. For the HELOC holdings, the rating is highly dependent upon the   
   
 rating of the monoline insurance provider. At Dec. 31, 2008, HELOCs with a face value of approximately $707 million and a fair market value of approximately
$334 million are guaranteed by various monoline insurers.      If a monoline insurer experiences a credit rating downgrade and it is determined that the
monoline insurer may not be able to meets its obligations, the HELOC holdings guaranteed by that insurer are further evaluated based on the deal collateral and structure without the insurer guarantee. Potential losses are compared to the available
total coverage provided by excess spread, over-collateralization and subordination for each bond to determine OTTI.      In addition, we assess OTTI for an
appropriate subset of our investment securities subject to EITF 99-20 and as amended by FASB Staff Position EITF 99-20-1  Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20  by testing for an adverse change in cash flows.
Any unrealized loss on a security identified as other than temporarily impaired under EITF 99-20 analysis is charged to earnings.       Goodwill and other
intangibles       We record all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles, and other
intangibles, at fair value as required by SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 ( SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 ),  Business Combinations.  Goodwill ($15.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2008) and indefinite-lived intangible assets ($2.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2008)
are not amortized but are subject to annual tests for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment if events
or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.      The initial recording of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles, and other
intangibles requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. The goodwill impairment test is performed in two phases. The first step compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit
with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its
estimated fair value, an additional procedure would be performed.  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     45   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 That additional procedure would compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment
loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.      The carrying value of goodwill in each of the
Company s business segments, which are our reporting units under SFAS 142, was tested for possible impairment in 2008 in accordance with SFAS 142, using market multiples of comparable companies. In addition, material events and circumstances
that might be indicators of possible impairment were assessed during interim periods. These included the changing business climate, regulatory and legal factors, the recoverability of long-lived assets, changes in our competitors, and the earnings
outlook for the Company s segments. No goodwill impairment was indicated. Further, the Company s market capitalization exceeded its net book value at the end of each quarter of 2008. Our goodwill and intangible assets could be subject to
impairment in future periods if economic conditions that impact our segments continue to worsen. Any impairment would be a non-cash charge. Our tangible common equity and regulatory capital would not be impacted by such impairments.      Indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually by comparing their fair value to their carrying value. Other intangible assets ($3.2
billion at Dec. 31, 2008) are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Such evaluation of other intangible assets is initially based on undiscounted cash flow projections.      Fair value may be determined using: market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples, discounted cash flow analysis and other determinants. Estimated cash
flows may extend far into the future and, by their nature, are difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition,
changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures and technology, and changes in discount rates and specific industry or market sector conditions. Other key judgments in accounting for intangibles include useful life and classification between
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles or other intangibles which require amortization. See Note 5 of the Notes to   
   
 Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding intangible assets. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had $21.8 billion of goodwill,
indefinite-lived intangibles, and other intangible assets.       Pension accounting       BNY Mellon has defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 24,700 U.S. employees and approximately 3,400 non-U.S. employees.      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation has three qualified and several non-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and seven overseas. As of Dec. 31, 2008, the U.S. plans accounted for 87% of the
projected benefit obligation. The pension credit for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation plans was $20 million in 2008, compared with $4 million in 2007 (which includes six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of
legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only) and $38 million of expense in 2006 (for legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only).      In addition to
its pension plans, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ). Benefits payable under the legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. U.S. qualified pension plan are offset by the equivalent value
of benefits earned under the ESOP.      A net pension credit of approximately $9 million is expected to be recorded by the Company in 2009, assuming currency
exchange rates at Dec. 31, 2008.      Effective Jan. 1, 2009, the U.S. pension plans were amended to change the benefit formula for participants under age 50
as of Dec. 31, 2008 and for new participants to a cash balance formula for service earned on and after Jan. 1, 2009. This change was made to unify the future benefits earned by the employees of the legacy organizations. The change is expected to
have an insignificant impact on future pension expense. Plan participants who were age 50 or older as of Dec. 31, 2008 will continue to earn benefits under the formula of the legacy plan in which they participated as of that date.      A number of key assumption and measurement date values determine pension expense. The key elements include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount
rate, the market-related value of plan assets, and the price used to value stock in the ESOP.   
       
   46     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             Since 2006, these key elements have varied as
follows:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Market-related value of plan assets are for the beginning of the plan year. See  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies  in Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(c)   
   Pension benefits expense includes discontinued operations expense of $6 million in 2006.      

(d)   
   Includes a $21 million credit for legacy Mellon Financial plans based on a discount rate of 6.25% as of July 1, 2007, and a long-term rate of return on plan assets of 8.25%.

(e)   
   Includes $4 million of expense for legacy Mellon Financial s foreign plans.         The discount rate for U.S. pension plans was determined after reviewing a number of high quality long-term bond indices whose yields were adjusted to match the duration of the Company s pension liability. We also
reviewed the results of several models that matched bonds to our pension cash flows. After reviewing the various indices and models, we selected a discount rate of 6.38% as of Dec. 31, 2008.      The discount rates for foreign pension plans are based on high quality corporate bonds rates in countries that have an active corporate bond market. In those countries
with no active corporate bond market, discount rates are based on local government bond rates plus a credit spread.      Our expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each applicable asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the expected allocation for each asset class. Anticipated returns are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and
fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets.         
    We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global
economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      The market-related value of plan assets also influences the level of pension expense.
Differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over five years to compute an actuarially derived market-related value of plan assets. For the legacy Mellon Financial plans, the market-related value of assets was set equal to the
assets  market value as of July 1, 2007. The averaging of actuarial gains and losses for the legacy Mellon Financial plan assets will be phased in over a five-year period beginning July 1, 2007.      Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the future service period of active employees if they exceed a threshold amount. The Company currently has
unrecognized losses which are being amortized.      The annual impacts of hypothetical changes in the key elements on pension costs are shown in the table
below.       
    
       Consolidated balance sheet review       In the
second half of 2008, the size of our balance sheet increased significantly, reflecting a large increase in client deposits as clients reacted to the volatile markets by seeking a safe haven for their deposits. Asset levels peaked at $267.5 billion
on Sept. 30, 2008. At Dec. 31, 2008, total assets were $237.5 billion, compared with $197.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Deposits totaled $159.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $118.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Total assets
averaged $210.0 billion in 2008 compared with $148.6 billion in 2007. Total deposits  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     47   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 averaged $127.0 billion in 2008 compared with $88.0 billion in 2007.      The higher level of client deposits received during the second half of 2008 were placed in liquid funds with either the Federal Reserve and other central banks or in short-term deposits with large global banks. As a result, our percentage
of liquid assets to total assets increased to 44% at Dec. 31, 2008 from 25% at Dec. 31, 2007. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had approximately $47 billion of liquid funds with large global banks and cash of $58 billion (including approximately $53
billion on deposit with the Federal Reserve and other central banks) for a total of approximately $105 billion of available funds. This compares with available funds of $50 billion at Dec. 31, 2007.      Included in total assets at Dec. 31, 2008 was $5.6 billion of U.S. government-backed commercial paper funded by borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank under its ABCP
MMMF Program. The ABCP Program was implemented in the third quarter of 2008 by the Federal Reserve Bank to help restore liquidity to the ABCP markets and thereby help money market funds meet demand for redemptions.      Included in interest-bearing deposits with banks at Dec. 31, 2008 was approximately $3 billion of certificates of deposits ( CDs ) purchased from money market
mutual funds managed by Dreyfus. During the second half of 2008, the Company purchased approximately $21 billion of CDs from the money market mutual funds. Approximately $18 billion of these CDs were repaid in the fourth quarter of 2008. When the
securities mature in 2009, no gain or loss is expected to be recorded.      Investment securities were $39.4 billion or 17% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2008,
compared with $48.7 billion or 25% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease in investment securities primarily relates to higher unrealized securities losses as well as paydowns in the mortgage-backed securities portfolio.      Loans were $43.4 billion or 18% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $50.9 billion or 26% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease in loan levels was
primarily due to the implementation of our institutional credit strategy to reduce targeted exposure (discussed further on page 53) and the sale of M1BB in 2008.      Trading assets were $11.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $6.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Trading   
   
 liabilities were $8.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $4.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The increase in both trading assets and trading liabilities
resulted from extreme volatility in the currency markets.      Total shareholders  equity was $28.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $29.4
billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease reflects higher unrealized mark-to-market losses in the investment securities portfolio, partially offset by the issuance of the Series B preferred stock and earnings retention.       Investment securities       The following table shows the distribution of our
securities portfolio:       
        At Dec.
31, 2008, the carrying value of our investment securities portfolio was $39.4 billion compared with $48.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Average investment securities were $44.4 billion in the 2008 compared with $35.4 billion in 2007.      In 2008, we reassessed the classification of certain asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities and reclassified $6.1 billion at fair value of our available-for-sale
securities to held-to-maturity. The related unrealized pretax loss on these securities was $564 million at Dec. 31, 2008. The accumulated other comprehensive income ( OCI ) remained in OCI and is being amortized as a yield adjustment
through earnings over the remaining terms of the securities.      We consider the held-to-maturity classification to be more appropriate because we have the
ability and the intent to hold the securities to maturity.   
       
   48     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
 The following table provides the detail of our securities portfolio.           

(a)   
   Amortized cost before impairments.      

(b)   
   Life-to-date impairment charges include $301 million associated with the consolidation of TRFC in December 2007 and $45 million associated with the consolidation of Old Slip in
December 2008.      

(c)   
   The  Watch list  includes those securities we view as having a higher risk of additional impairment charges.      

(d)   
   Subsequent to Dec. 31, 2008, the rating agencies downgraded the ratings on approximately 7.7% of the securities portfolio.              The unrealized net of tax loss on our total securities available for sale portfolio was $4.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008. The unrealized net of tax loss includes $56 million related to securities available for sale for
which the valuation fell within Level 3 of the SFAS 157 hierarchy. See Note 24 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of SFAS 157 fair value hierarchy. The unrealized net of tax loss at Dec. 31, 2007 was $342 million.
The unrealized net of tax loss increased in 2008 compared with 2007 due to wider credit spreads reflecting market illiquidity. At Dec. 31, 2008, the securities in our portfolio continued to remain highly rated, with 87% rated AAA/AA. We continue to
have the ability and intent to hold our investment securities until any temporary impairment is recovered, or until maturity.      We routinely test our
investment securities for OTTI. (See  Critical estimates  for additional disclosure regarding OTTI.) In 2008, the housing market indicators and the broader economy deteriorated significantly. As a result, during 2008, we adjusted our
modeling assumptions to reflect this deterioration. Accordingly, we changed the modeling assumptions on all Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities ( RMBS ) with the primary changes being on the default rates. In addition, to properly
reflect the declining value of homes in the current foreclosure environment, the Company adjusted its RMBS loss   
   
 severity assumptions to decrease the amount it expects to receive to cover the value of the original loan. As a result of these adjustments to our
assumptions, a larger number of securities (primarily Alt-A) generated an expected loss and consequently, we recorded an impairment charge and wrote down to current market value certain securities, resulting in a pre-tax securities loss of $1.6
billion.      The life-to-date expected incurred loss included in securities write-downs recorded through Dec. 31, 2008 is estimated to be approximately $535
million. The difference between the expected incurred loss and the total impairment charges is largely driven by the market illiquidity relating to mortgage-backed securities. The underlying market discount rate rose throughout 2008, particularly
during the fourth quarter, and accounted for the gap between the expected incurred loss and the impairment charges. The expected incurred loss is determined based on a projected principal write-down of a mortgage-backed security that occurs when the
losses on the underlying mortgage pool are expected to be large enough to cause a reduction in the total mortgage contractual amount of principal that the Company is entitled to receive pursuant to terms of the security. Securities with an
unrealized loss that is determined to be other-than-temporary are written down to fair value, with the write-down recorded as a recognized loss in   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     49   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 securities gains (losses). A portion of the difference between the expected incurred loss and fair market      value loss is accreted into interest revenue over management s best estimate of the remaining life of the security.      The following table provides pre-tax securities losses by type, as well as the expected incurred loss by security.           
 
    If the expected performance of the underlying collateral of any or all of these securities deteriorates, additional impairments may be recorded against such securities in future periods, as necessary.      At the time of purchase, 100% of our Alt-A portfolio was rated AAA. At Dec. 31, 2008, this portfolio had migrated to 53% AAA-rated, 12% AA-rated, 12% A-rated and 23%
other. At the time of purchase, the portfolio s weighted-average FICO score was 715 and its weighted-average LTV was 74%.      Approximately 50% of the
total portfolio is supported by better performing fixed-rate collateral and the portfolio s weighted-average current credit enhancement is approximately 13%. The unrealized loss on the Alt-A portfolio at Dec. 31, 2008 was $2.8 billion. At Dec.
31, 2008 approximately 2.3% of the Alt-A portfolio consisted of pay-option adjustable rate mortgage collateral ( option ARMS ). Securities for which option ARMs were all or a portion of the underlying collateral were rated AAA (77%) and AA
(23%).         
    The table below shows the vintages of our Alt-A, prime mortgage, subprime mortgage and commercial mortgage-backed securities portfolios at Dec. 31, 2008.           

(a)   
   Fair value as a percentage of amortized cost before impairment.         At Dec. 31, 2008, the fair value of our subprime mortgage securities portfolio was $987 million with 77% of the portfolio rated AA or higher. The weighted-average current credit enhancement on this portfolio was approximately 34% at Dec.
31, 2008.      At Dec. 31, 2008, the fair value of our total ABS CDOs was $24 million. The fair value of this portfolio, net of OTTI, was 5% of par at Dec. 31,
2008. At Dec. 31, 2008, $5 million of ABS CDOs are included in trading assets and $19 million are included in securities available-for-sale. The CDO securities are included in Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as described in Note 24 to the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.      The HELOC securities are tested for impairment based on the quality of the underlying security and the condition of
the monoline insurer providing credit support. Securities were deemed impaired if we expected they would not be repaid in full without the  

50     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 support of the insurer and the insurer was rated below investment grade. The HELOC securities write-downs in 2008 ($104 million) resulted from both
deterioration of specific securities combined with weakening credit support due to below investment grade ratings of certain bond insurers.      At Dec. 31,
2008, our portfolio included $126 million, at amortized cost, of SIV securities. These securities were carried at 49% of par. On Jan. 8, 2008, we were notified of an enforcement action against one of the SIV securities held in our portfolio. This
enforcement action will likely result in the liquidation of that SIV. We expect to receive an in-kind vertical slice of the underlying assets held by the SIV upon liquidation. The underlying assets held by the SIV were rated 50% AAA, 14% AA, 18% A
and 18% other at Dec. 31, 2008.      At Dec. 31, 2008, the fair value of the SIV securities was determined by reviewing the assets underlying the securities.
The underlying assets were priced primarily using broker quotes and vendor prices. The SIV securities are included in Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy as described in Note 24 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      The following tables show the geographic location and ratings of the fair value of the European floating rate notes.           
           
    For $78 million of SIV securities in the available-for-sale
portfolio, we are recording interest on a cash basis.      No material gains or losses were recorded on securities sold from the available-for-sale portfolio
in 2008.      Included in our securities portfolio are the following securities that have a credit enhancement through a guarantee by a monoline insurer:

(a)   
   The par value guaranteed by the monoline insurers was $1.5 billion.         At Dec. 31, 2008, these securities were rated 22% AAA, 28% AA, 25% A, and 25% other. In all cases, when purchasing the securities, we reviewed the credit quality of the underlying securities, as well as the insurer.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     51   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
 The following table shows the maturity distribution by carrying amount and yield (not on a tax equivalent basis) of our securities portfolio at Dec. 31,
2008.       

(a)   
   Yields are based upon the amortized cost of securities.      

(b)   
   Includes $78 million, for which we are recording interest on a cash basis.              We also have equity investments categorized as
other assets (bracketed amounts indicate carrying values). Included in other assets are joint ventures and other equity investments ($1.3 billion), strategic investments related to asset management ($272 million), Federal Reserve Bank stock ($342
million), private equity investments ($209 million), and tax advantaged low-income housing investments ($300 million).      Our equity investment in Wing Hang
had a fair value of $345 million (book value of $279 million) at Dec. 31, 2008. An agreement with certain other shareholders of Wing Hang prohibits the sale of this interest without their permission. We received dividends from Wing Hang of $26
million, $17 million, and $18 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Private equity activities consist of investments in private equity funds,
mezzanine financings, and direct equity investments. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to these activities. The carrying and fair value of our private equity investments was $209 million
at Dec. 31, 2008, down $60 million from $269 million at Dec. 31, 2007. At Dec. 31, 2008, private equity investments consisted of investments in private equity funds of $187 million, direct equity of $11   
   
 million, and leveraged bond funds of $11 million. Fair values for private equity funds are generally based upon information provided by fund sponsors and our
knowledge of the underlying portfolio while mezzanine financing and direct equity investments are based upon Company models. In 2008, we had an average invested balance of $239 million in private equity. Investment income and interest income were
less than $1 million in 2008.      At Dec. 31, 2008, we had $41 million of unfunded investment commitments to private equity funds and partnerships. The timing
of future cash requirements to fund such commitments is generally dependent on the investment cycle. This cycle, the period over which privately-held companies are funded by private equity investors and ultimately sold, merged, or taken public
through an initial public offering, can vary based on overall market conditions as well as the nature and type of industry in which the companies operate. If unused, the commitments expire between 2010 and 2013.      Commitments to private equity limited partnerships may extend beyond the expiration period shown above to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and liabilities,
and organizational and partnership expenses.   
       
   52     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Loans        

(a)   
   The yearly average for 2007 includes six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
        Total loans were $43.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $50.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease in total loans primarily
reflects a decrease in loans to broker-dealers, overdrafts, margin loans and lease financings, partially offset by an increase in wealth management loans and mortgages.      Average total loans were $48.1 billion in 2008 compared with $41.5 billion in 2007. The increase in average loans primarily resulted from increased overdrafts and broker-dealer loans, including the impact of the
liquidity crisis in the second half of   
   
 2008, as well as the merger with Mellon Financial. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had no exposure to SIVs in our loan portfolio.      We have implemented the following institutional credit strategies:       

We increased our targeted exposure reduction to $14 billion from the original target of $4.5 billion and the third quarter 2008 revised target of $10 billion.

As of Dec. 31, 2008, we have achieved approximately $10 billion of the increased targeted exposure reduction.     

Focus on investment grade names to support cross selling.      

Avoid single name/industry concentrations, using credit default swaps as appropriate.      

Exit high risk portfolios.         The anticipated impact
of this strategy will include lower expected credit losses and a decrease in the volatility of the provision for credit losses through the credit cycle, together with a modest reduction in net interest revenue and associated capital markets fees.
     The following table provides details on our credit exposures and outstandings at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with Dec. 31, 2007.   
     
         At Dec. 31, 2008, total exposures were $96.0 billion, a reduction of $18.9 billion compared with 2007, reflecting our previously mentioned institutional credit strategy
to reduce risk in our portfolio. Our   
   
 financial institutions and commercial portfolios comprise our largest concentrated risk. These portfolios make up 68% of our total lending exposure.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     53   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
  Financial institutions       The diversity of the financial
institutions portfolio is shown in the following table.       
         The financial institutions portfolio exposure was $34.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared to $46.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The change from Dec. 31, 2007
reflects a decrease in nearly all exposure categories. Exposures to financial institutions are high quality with 90% meeting the investment grade equivalent criteria of our rating system. These exposures are generally short-term, with 66% expiring
within one year, and are frequently secured by securities that we may hold in custody on behalf of those financial institutions. For example, securities industry and asset managers often borrow against marketable securities held in custody.
     Exposure to banks is largely to investment grade counterparties in developed countries. Non-investment grade bank exposures are short term in nature
supporting our global trade finance and U.S. dollar clearing businesses in developing countries globally. As a conservative measure, our internal credit rating classification for international   
   
 counterparties caps the rating based upon the sovereign rating of the country where the counterparty resides regardless of the credit rating of the
counterparty or the underlying collateral.      The asset manager portfolio exposures are high quality with 92% meeting our investment grade equivalent ratings
criteria. These exposures are generally short-term liquidity facilities with the vast majority to regulated mutual funds. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had no lending exposure to SIVs.      At Dec. 31, 2008, insurance exposure in the table above included $122 million of direct credit exposure to five monoline financial guaranty insurers, down 49% from $240 million at Dec. 31, 2007. We also extend
facilities which provide liquidity, primarily for variable rate tax exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit approval for these facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax exempt issuer and is not solely dependent
upon the monoline.   
         Commercial       The diversity of the commercial portfolio is shown in the following table.       
       
   54     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 The commercial portfolio exposure decreased to $31.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, from $33.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, primarily reflecting decreased exposure
to the manufacturing industry (including $1.2 billion due to the sale of M1BB) and media and telecom. Our goal is to migrate towards a predominantly investment grade portfolio, with targeted exposure reductions over the next several years.
     We continue to actively monitor automotive industry exposure given ongoing weakness in the domestic automotive industry. At Dec. 31, 2008, total exposures
in our automotive portfolio included $224 million of secured exposure to two of the big three U.S. automotive manufacturers and a total of $169 million to 7 suppliers.      The table below summarizes the percent of the financial institutions and commercial exposures that are investment grade:       
     Wealth management loans and mortgages       Wealth management loans and mortgages are primarily composed of loans to high-net-worth individuals secured by marketable securities, and jumbo mortgages.       Commercial real estate       Real estate facilities are focused on experienced owners and are structured with moderate
leverage based on existing cash flows. Our commercial real estate lending activities include both construction facilities and medium-term loans. Our client base consists of experienced developers and long-term holders of real estate assets. Loans
are approved on the basis of existing or projected cash flow, and supported by appraisals and a knowledge of local market conditions. Development loans are structured with moderate leverage, and in most instances, involve some level of recourse to
the developer. Our commercial real estate exposure totaled $4.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with $4.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The modest increase primarily resulted from loans secured by residential and office buildings and loans to
investment grade and real estate investment trusts ( REITs ). At Dec. 31, 2008, approximately 75% of our commercial real estate portfolio is   
   
 secured. The secured portfolio is diverse by project type with approximately 45% secured by residential buildings, approximately 25% secured by office
buildings, 9% secured by retail properties, and approximately 21% by other categories. Approximately 92% of the unsecured portfolio is allocated to REITs under revolving credit agreements.      At Dec. 31, 2008, our commercial real estate portfolio is comprised of the following concentrations: New York metro   35%; Florida   23%; investment grade
REITs   23% and other   19%. Given the weakness in the South Florida real estate markets, we have experienced credit deterioration in the portfolio and expect this trend to continue during 2009.       Lease financings       We utilize the leasing portfolio as part of our
tax cash flow management strategy. The leasing portfolio consisted of non-airline exposures of $3.9 billion and $241 million of airline exposures at Dec. 31, 2008. Approximately 91% of the non-airline exposure is investment grade, or investment
grade equivalent.      At Dec. 31, 2008, the non-airline portion of the leasing portfolio consisted of $3.9 billion of exposures backed by well-diversified
assets, primarily large-ticket transportation equipment. The largest component is rail, consisting of both passenger and freight trains. Assets are both domestic and foreign-based, with primary concentrations in the United States and European
countries. Excluding airline leasing, counterparty rating equivalents at Dec. 31, 2008, were as follows:       

28% of the counterparties are AA or better;      

9% are non-investment grade         At Dec. 31, 2008,
our $241 million of exposure to the airline industry consisted of a $19 million real estate lease exposure as well as the airline-leasing portfolio which included $85 million to major U.S. carriers, $121 million to foreign airlines and $16 million
to U.S. regionals.      In 2008, the airline industry continued to face challenging operating conditions. A weaker economic outlook for 2009 had a dampening
effect on aircraft values in the secondary market. Because of these factors, we continue to maintain a sizable allowance for loan losses against these exposures and to closely monitor the portfolio.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     55   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Other residential mortgages    
  The other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1- 4 family residential mortgage loans. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had less than $15 million in subprime
mortgages included in this portfolio. The subprime loans were issued to support our Community Reinvestment Act requirements.         
     Overdrafts       Overdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are
generally repaid within two business days.       Other loans       Other loans are composed largely of Community Development Corporation and non-mortgage Community Reinvestment Act loans.   
         Loans by product       The following table shows trends in the loans
outstanding at year-end on a continuing operations basis over the last five years based on a product analysis.       
          International loans       We have credit relationships in the
international markets, particularly in areas associated with our securities servicing and trade finance. Excluding lease financings, these activities resulted in outstanding international loans of $7.9 billion and $11.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. This decrease primarily resulted from a lower level of overdrafts related to custody and securities clearance clients.         
    At Dec. 31, 2008, our emerging markets exposures, which are
primarily included in foreign loans in the table above, totaled approximately $5.1 billion. These exposures consisted primarily of short-term loans, and a $279 million investment in Wing Hang, which is located in Hong Kong. This compares with
emerging market exposure of $5.9 billion in 2007, including an investment of $275 million in Wing Hang.   
       
   56     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             Maturity of loan portfolio       The following table shows the maturity structure of our loan portfolio at Dec. 31, 2008.

(a)   
   Excludes loans collateralized by residential properties, lease financings and wealth loans.      

(b)   
   Variable rate loans due after one year totaled $8.960 billion and fixed rate loans totaled $299 million.               Asset quality and allowance for credit losses       Over the past several years, we have improved our risk profile
through greater focus on clients who are active users of our non-credit services, de-emphasizing broad-based loan growth. Our primary exposure to the credit risk of a customer consists of funded loans, unfunded formal contractual commitments to
lend, standby letters of credit and overdrafts associated with our custody and securities clearance businesses.         
    The role of credit has shifted to one that complements our other
services instead of as a lead product. Credit solidifies customer relationships and, through a disciplined allocation of capital, can earn acceptable rates of return as part of an overall relationship.      We have implemented an institutional credit strategy to reduce exposures that no longer meet risk/return criteria, including an assessment of overall relationship
profitability. In addition, we make use of credit derivatives and other risk mitigants as economic hedges of portions of the credit risk in our portfolio. The effect of these transactions is to transfer credit risk to creditworthy, independent third
parties.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     57   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
  Activity in allowance for credit losses       The following
table details changes in our allowance for credit losses for the last five years:       

(a)   
   Charge-offs, recoveries and the provision for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of the legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.
             Net charge-offs were $73 million in 2008, $63 million in 2007, and $13 million in 2006. Net charge-offs in 2008 included $20 million of residential mortgages, $15 million
related to commercial real estate exposure, $17 million related to foreign SIV exposures, $13 million to a newspaper publication and $7 million to a retail trade customer. Net charge-offs in 2007 included $23 million related to the sale of

leased aircraft, $19 million related to foreign SIV exposure and $13 million related to an investment fund.      The provision for credit losses was $131 million in 2008, compared with a credit of $10 million in 2007 and a credit of $20 million in 2006. The increase
in the provision in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily   
       
   58     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 reflects a higher level of nonperforming assets, as well as higher net charge-offs in 2008.      The total allowance for credit losses was $529 million and $494 million at year-end 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in the allowance for credit losses reflects a higher level of nonperforming assets. The
ratio of the total allowance for credit losses to year-end non-margin loans was 1.34% and 1.08% at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007. The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to year-end non-margin loans was 1.05% and 0.72% at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007. The
growth in these ratios resulted from a decrease in non-margin loans and additional reserves held on higher risk rated loans and mortgages.      We had $4.0
billion and $5.2 billion of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to these loans. As a result, we
believe that the ratio of total allowance for credit losses to non-margin loans is a more appropriate metric to measure the adequacy of the reserve.      Our
total allowance for credit losses at year-end 2008 equated to approximately 8.4 times the average charge-offs and 10.7 times the average net charge-offs for the last three years. Because historical charge-offs are not necessarily indicative of
future charge-off levels, we also give consideration to other risk indicators when determining the appropriate allowance level.      The allowance for loan
losses and the allowance for unfunded commitments consist of four elements:       

an allowance for impaired credits (nonaccrual loans over $1 million);      

an allowance for higher risk rated credits;      

an allowance for pass rated credits, and      

an unallocated allowance based on general economic conditions and risk factors in our individual markets.         The first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all nonperforming loans over $1 million. The allowance is measured by the difference between the
recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value. Impaired value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.         
    The second element, higher risk rated credits, is based on the assignment of loss factors for each specific risk category of higher risk credits. We rate each credit in our portfolio that exceeds $1 million and assign
the credits to specific risk pools. A potential loss factor is assigned to each pool, and an amount is included in the allowance equal to the product of the amount of the loan in the pool and the risk factor. Reviews of higher risk rated loans are
conducted quarterly and the loan s rating is updated as necessary. We prepare a loss migration analysis and compare our actual loss experience to the loss factors on an annual basis to attempt to ensure the accuracy of the loss factors assigned
to each pool.      The third element, pass rated credits, is based on our expected loss model. Borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings.
The expected loss for each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and maturity. The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation. The borrower s probability of default is derived from
the associated credit rating. Borrower ratings are reviewed at least semi-annually and are periodically mapped to third party databases, including rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity.
Commercial loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a credit rating. We also apply this technique to our leasing and wealth management portfolios. At our subsidiary banks that provide credit to small businesses,
exposures are pooled and reserves are established based on historical portfolio losses.      The fourth element, the unallocated allowance, is based on
management s judgment regarding the following factors:       

Economic conditions including duration of the current cycle;      

Past experience including recent loss experience;      

Credit quality trends;      

Collateral values;      

Volume, composition, and growth of the loan portfolio;      

Specific credits and industry conditions;      

Results of bank regulatory and internal credit exams;      

Geopolitical issues and their impact on the economy; and      

Volatility and model risk.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     59   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             Based on an evaluation of these four elements,
including individual credits, historical credit losses, and global economic factors, we have allocated our allowance for credit losses on a continuing operations basis as follows:       
       
    The allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the
nature of the loss. The unallocated allowance for credit losses was 12% at Dec. 31, 2008, a decrease from 23% at Dec. 31, 2007. The unallocated allowance reflects various factors in the current credit environment and is also available to, among
other things, absorb further deterioration across all of our portfolios resulting from the current economic environment.       Nonperforming assets
      The following table shows the distribution of nonperforming assets at the end of each of the last five years.   
     
         Nonperforming assets increased by $102 million to $292 million at Dec. 31, 2008. The increase relates principally to a net $84 million increase in commercial real estate
loans, primarily in Florida, a $79 million increase in other residential mortgages and a $19 million loan to a newspaper publisher, partially offset by $91 million of paydowns and $17 million of charge-offs on loans to foreign SIVs. Nonperforming
assets are expected to increase in 2009.         

(a)   
   The balance at the beginning of 2007 reflects legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      
       
   60     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The following table shows loans past due 90 days
or more and still accruing interest.       
    Past due loans at Dec. 31, 2008 were primarily comprised of loans to an asset manager that has filed for
bankruptcy. (See Legal proceedings). These loans are well secured, largely by cash and high grade fixed income securities, and are in the process of collection.       Deposits       Deposits on our balance sheet increased significantly during the market turmoil that began in mid-September 2008, reflecting
clients seeking a safe haven during the volatile markets. As a result, total deposits were $159.7 billion at year-end 2008, an increase of 35% compared with $118.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2007.      Noninterest-bearing deposits were $55.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $32.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Interest-bearing deposits were $103.9 billion at Dec. 31,
2008, compared with $85.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2007.      The aggregate amount of deposits by foreign customers in domestic offices was $16 billion and $7.3
billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Deposits in foreign offices totaled approximately $71 billion at Dec. 31, 2008. The majority of these
deposits were in amounts in excess of $100,000 and were primarily overnight foreign deposits.         
    The following table shows the maturity breakdown of domestic
time deposits of $100,000 or more at Dec. 31, 2008.       
     Other borrowings       We fund ourselves primarily through deposits and other borrowings, which are comprised of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreement, payables to customers and broker-dealers, other borrowed funds and long-term
debt. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had $138 million of commercial paper compared with $4.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease primarily relates to commercial paper recorded in connection with the consolidation of TRFC in the fourth quarter of 2007. The
TRFC commercial paper was eliminated in the first quarter of 2008. Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements were $1.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $2.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Payables to customers and
broker-dealers were $9.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and $7.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The increase to payables to customers and broker-dealers related to customers of our Pershing subsidiary as customers liquidated funds during the volatile markets
in 2008. Other borrowed funds were $755 million at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $1.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Other borrowed funds consist primarily of extended federal funds purchased and amounts owed to the U.S. Treasury.      As previously described, we also participate in the Federal Reserve s ABCP Program that was implemented in the third quarter of 2008. Eligible borrowers may borrow
funds under the ABCP program in order to fund the purchase of eligible ABCP from an MMMF. At Dec. 31, 2008, we borrowed $5.6 billion under this program that was used to purchase $5.6 billion of U.S. government-backed commercial paper.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     61   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             See  Liquidity and dividends  below
for a discussion of long-term debt.      Information related to federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements in 2008, 2007 and 2006
is presented in the table below.       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         Information
related to other borrowed funds in 2008, 2007 and 2006 is presented in the table below.       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         Information
related to borrowings from Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper in 2008 is presented in the table below.           
       Support agreements       In 2008, we recorded support agreement charges of $894 million (pre-tax), or $0.46 per share.      In response to market events
in 2008, we voluntarily provided support to clients invested in money market mutual funds, cash sweep funds and similar collective funds, managed by our affiliates, impacted by the Lehman bankruptcy. The support agreements related to:       

five commingled cash funds used primarily for overnight custody cash sweeps;      

the BNY Mellon Institutional Cash Reserve Fund used for the reinvestment of cash collateral within our securities lending business; and

four Dreyfus money market funds.         These support
agreements are designed to enable these funds with Lehman holdings to continue to operate at a stable share price of $1.00. Support agreement charges in 2008 primarily reflect our estimate of the potential liability of Lehman at a value of 9.75% at
Dec. 31, 2008.      Additionally, the following support agreements were also executed in 2008:       

An agreement covering SIV exposures in a Sterling-denominated NAV fund in the Asset Management segment;      

An agreement for a commingled short-term NAV fund covering securities related to Whistle Jacket Capital/White Pine Financial, LLC in the Asset Servicing segment;
and      

Agreements providing support to a collective investment pool in the Asset Management segment.         At Dec. 31, 2008, our additional potential maximum exposure to support agreements was $244 million, based on the securities subject to these agreements being valued at
zero and the NAV of the related funds declining below established thresholds. This exposure includes agreements covering Lehman securities ($197 million), as well as other client support agreements ($47 million). Future realized support agreement
charges will principally depend on the price of Lehman securities, fund performance and the number of clients that accept our offer of support.      In 2008,
we also offered to support certain clients holding auction rate securities in the Wealth Management and Treasury Services segments.         Liquidity and dividends       We maintain our liquidity through the management of our assets and liabilities, utilizing
worldwide financial markets. The diversification of liabilities reflects our efforts to maintain flexibility of funding sources under changing market conditions. Stable core deposits from our securities servicing, wealth management and treasury
services businesses are generated through our diversified network and managed with the use of trend studies and deposit pricing. The use of derivative  

62     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 products such as interest rate swaps and financial futures enhances liquidity by enabling us to issue long-term liabilities with limited exposure to interest
rate risk. Liquidity also results from the maintenance of a portfolio of assets that can be easily sold and the monitoring of unfunded loan commitments, thereby reducing unanticipated funding requirements. Unrealized losses in the securities
portfolio have not had an adverse impact on our liquidity. Liquidity is managed on both a consolidated basis and at The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation parent company ( Parent ).      The market turmoil that began in mid-September 2008 resulted in a significant increase in our liquid assets. At Dec. 31, 2008, we had approximately $47 billion of liquid
funds and $58 billion of cash (including approximately $53 billon on deposit with the Federal Reserve and other central banks) for a total of approximately $105 billion of available funds. This compares with available funds of $50 billion at
Dec. 31, 2007. Our liquid assets to total assets were 44% at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with 25% at Dec. 31, 2007. This increase primarily reflects a significantly higher level of client deposits, reflecting client reactions to market
volatility.      On an average basis for 2008 and 2007, non-core sources of funds such as money market rate accounts, certificates of deposit greater than
$100,000, federal funds purchased and other borrowings were $25.0 billion and $19.8 billion. The increase primarily reflects the merger with Mellon Financial. Average foreign deposits, primarily from our European-based securities servicing business,
were $68.8 billion in 2008 compared with $50.3 billion in 2007. The increase in foreign deposits reflects greater liquidity from our corporate trust and asset servicing businesses, the merger with Mellon Financial and the transition of deposits
during 2007 related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business. Domestic savings and other time deposits averaged $7.4 billion in 2008 compared with $1.6 billion in 2007. The increase reflects the merger with Mellon Financial and a large government
agency deposit that was placed with the Company in the first half of 2008. A significant reduction in our securities servicing businesses would reduce our access to deposits.      Average payables to customers and broker-dealers were $5.5 billion in 2008 and $5.1 billion in 2007. Long-term debt averaged $16.4 billion in 2008 and $12.3 billion in 2007. The increase in long-term debt

primarily reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, partially offset by maturities in 2008. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased to $34.2 billion
in 2008 from $21.7 billion in 2007, primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon Financial, as well as the substantial increase in customer deposits in the second half of 2008, reflecting a flight to quality.      We have entered into two modest securitization transactions. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These transactions have not had a significant
impact on our liquidity or capital.      The Parent has five major sources of liquidity:       

cash on hand;      

dividends from its subsidiaries;      

the commercial paper market;      

a revolving credit agreement with third party financial institutions; and      

access to the capital markets.         At Dec. 31, 2008,
our bank subsidiaries had the ability to pay dividends of approximately $1.8 billion to the Parent without the need for a regulatory waiver. This dividend capacity would increase in 2009 to the extent of the banks  net income less dividends. At
Dec. 31, 2008, nonbank subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of approximately $0.9 billion. These assets could be liquidated and the proceeds delivered by dividend or loan to the Parent.      Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries are discussed in more detail in Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      In 2008 and 2007, the Parent s average commercial paper borrowings were $34 million and $73 million, respectively. The Parent had cash of $5.0 billion at
Dec. 31, 2008, compared with $4.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. Commercial paper outstandings issued by the Parent were $16 million and $65 million at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net of commercial paper outstanding, the
Parent s cash position at Dec. 31, 2008 increased by $0.7 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2007. The increase in cash held by the Parent reflects the issuance of the Series B preferred stock and warrant to purchase common shares,
partially offset by repayments of long-term debt that matured in 2008. The Parent s liquidity target is to have sufficient cash on hand to meet its obligations over the next 12 months without the need to take dividends from its banks or issue
debt.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     63   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 We currently have a $226 million credit agreement with 10 financial institutions that matures in October 2011. The fee on this facility depends on our credit
rating and at Dec. 31, 2008 was 6 basis points. The credit agreement requires us to maintain:       

shareholder s equity of $5 billion;      

a ratio of Tier I capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5;      

a double leverage ratio less than 1.3; and      

adequate capitalization of all our banks for regulatory purposes.         We are currently in compliance with these covenants. There were no borrowings under this facility at Dec. 31, 2008.      We also have the ability to access the capital markets. In July 2007, we filed an S-3 shelf registration statement with the SEC covering the issuance of an unlimited amount of debt, common stock, preferred stock and trust preferred
securities. Access to the capital markets is partially dependent on our credit ratings, which, as of Dec. 31, 2008, were as follows:       

Debt ratings at Dec. 31, 2008   
     
  Moody s  
     
  Standard   Poor s  
     
  Fitch  
     
  Dominion Bond Rating Service  

Parent:    

Long-term senior debt   
     
  Aa2  
     
  AA-  
     
  AA-  
     
  AA (low)  

Subordinated debt   
     
  Aa3  
     
  A+  
     
  A+  
     
  A (high)  

The Bank of New York Mellon:    

Long-term senior debt   
     
  Aaa  
     
  AA  
     
  AA-  
     
  AA  

Long-term deposits   
     
  Aaa  
     
  AA  
     
  AA  
     
  AA  

BNY Mellon, N.A.:    

Long-term senior debt   
     
  Aaa  
     
  AA  
     
  AA-  
     
  AA  

Long-term deposits   
     
  Aaa  
     
  AA  
     
  AA  
     
  AA  

Outlook    
     
  Stable  
     
  Stable  
     
  Stable  
     
  Stable            (long-term)   
   (a)           

(a)   
   On Jan. 22, 2009, Dominion Bond Rating Service changed our outlook from positive to stable.         In January 2009, the rating agencies affirmed all ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries.      The Parent s major
uses of funds are payment of dividends, principal and interest on its borrowings, acquisitions, and additional investment in its subsidiaries.      The Parent
has $925 million of long-term debt that will become due in 2009. In 2008, we called $417 million of subordinated debt and $309 million of trust preferred securities, and $250 million of subordinated debt matured. Also, $2.8 billion of senior debt

matured. In addition, the Parent has the option to call $843 million of subordinated debt in 2009, which it expects to call and refinance if market
conditions are favorable.      We also had $250 million of long-term debt issued by the Bank that matured in 2008.      The Company participates in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company was eligible to issue approximately $600 million of
FDIC-guaranteed debt under this program.      Long-term debt decreased to $15.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 from $16.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. In 2008, we
issued $257 million of medium-term subordinated notes bearing interest at rates from 5.05% to 6.25%. These notes, which qualify as Tier II capital, are due in 2023 and 2033.      In 2008, we issued $2.4 billion of senior debt, summarized in the following table:       
    We have $850 million of junior subordinated debentures that are callable in 2009. These securities qualify as Tier
I Capital. We have not yet decided if we will call these securities. The decision to call will be based on interest rates, the availability of cash and capital, and regulatory conditions. If we call the trust preferred securities, we expect to
replace them with new trust preferred securities or senior or subordinated debt. See discussion of qualification of trust preferred securities as capital in  Capital.       Double leverage is the ratio of investment in subsidiaries divided by our consolidated equity plus trust preferred securities. Our double leverage ratio at Dec. 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was 98.34%, 98.89%, and
102.86%, respectively. Our target double leverage ratio is a maximum of 120%. The double leverage ratio is monitored by regulators and rating agencies and is an important constraint on our ability to invest in our subsidiaries and expand our
businesses.      Pershing LLC, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, has committed and uncommitted lines of credit in place for liquidity purposes. The
committed line of  

64     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 credit of $725 million extended by eleven financial institutions matures in March 2009. In 2008, the average borrowing against this line of credit was $252
million. Additionally, Pershing has another committed line of credit for $125 million extended by one financial institution that matures in September 2009. The average borrowing against this line of credit was $18 million during 2008. Pershing LLC
has five separate uncommitted lines of credit, amounting to $1.125 billion in aggregate. In 2008, average daily borrowing under these lines was $161 million in aggregate.      Pershing Limited, an indirect U.K.-based subsidiary of the Company, has committed and uncommitted lines in place for liquidity purposes, which are guaranteed by the Parent. The committed lines of credit of $275
million extended by four financial institutions mature in March 2009. In 2008, the average daily borrowing against this line of credit was $4 million. Pershing Limited has three separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $250 million in
aggregate. In 2008, average daily borrowing under these lines was $95 million in aggregate.       Statement of cash flows       Cash provided by operating activities was $2.9 billion in 2008, compared with $4.0 billion provided in 2007 and $3.9 billion provided in 2006. In 2008, earnings were a
significant source of funds. The cash flows from operations in 2007 were principally the results of earnings and changes in trading activities. The cash flows used for operations in 2006 were principally the result of earnings, the gain on the sale
of the Retail Business and changes in trading activities.         
    In 2008, cash used for investing activities was $56.0 billion
compared to $21.6 billion used for investing activities in 2007 and $6.3 billion used for investing activities in 2006. In 2008, interest-bearing deposits at the Federal Reserve and other central banks and interest-bearing deposits with banks were a
significant use of funds, and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements and loans to customers were a significant source of funds. In 2007 and 2006, cash was used to increase our investment in securities. Interest-bearing
deposits, loans to customers and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements were uses of funds in 2007 and 2006.      In 2008, cash
provided by financing activities was $51.8 billion as compared to $21.5 billion provided by financing activities in 2007 and $2.5 billion provided by financing activities in 2006. In 2008, the primary source of funds was deposits and other funds
borrowed, partially offset by use of funds for the repayments of long-term debt and commercial paper. The increase in deposits primarily reflects the market turmoil that began in mid-September 2008, reflecting clients seeking a safe haven during the
volatile markets. In 2007 and 2006, sources of funds included deposits and the issuance of long-term debt.         Commitments and obligations
      We have contractual obligations to make fixed and determinable payments to third parties as indicated in the table below. The table excludes certain
obligations such as trade payables and trading liabilities, where the obligation is short-term or subject to valuation based on market factors.   

(a)   
   Including interest.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     65   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            We have entered into fixed and determinable commitments as indicated in the table below:       

(a)   
   Includes venture capital, community reinvestment act, and other investment-related commitments. Commitments to venture capital limited partnerships may extend beyond expiration
period shown to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and liabilities, and organizational and partnership expenses.      

(b)   
   Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms
             In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, at Dec. 31, 2008 $189 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with
FIN-48. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential interest of $45 million. At this point, it is not possible to determine when these amounts will be settled or resolved.         Off-balance sheet arrangements       Off-balance sheet
arrangements required to be discussed in this section are limited to guarantees, retained or contingent interests, support agreements, certain derivative instruments related to our common stock, and obligations arising out of unconsolidated variable
interest entities. For the Company, these items include certain credit guarantees and securitizations. Guarantees include: lending-related guarantees issued as part of our corporate banking business; securities lending indemnifications issued as
part of our servicing and fiduciary businesses and support agreements issued to customers in our asset servicing and asset management business.      We have
issued guarantees as indicated in the table below:       
       
    Standby letters of credit totaled $13.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, a decrease of $729 million compared with Dec. 31, 2007. Standby letters of credit and
foreign and other guarantees are used by the customer as a credit enhancement and typically expire without being drawn upon.      A commercial letter of credit
is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer. Although the commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a
credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction. As a result, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commercial letters of credit totaled $705 million at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with
$1.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2007.      A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend
the security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. We
recorded $789 million of fee revenue from securities lending transactions in 2008 compared with $366 million in 2007. Securities are lent with and without indemnification against broker default. Custodian securities lent with indemnification
against broker default of return of securities totaled $325 billion at Dec. 31, 2008, a $293 billion decrease compared with Dec. 31, 2007.   
       
   66     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The decrease reflects overall de-leveraging in
the financial markets and lower market valuations resulting from the large declines in the equity markets in 2008.      Securities lending transactions were
primarily collateralized at 102% by cash and U.S. government securities, which is monitored daily, thus reducing credit risk. Market risk can also arise in securities lending transactions. These risks are controlled through policies limiting the
level of risk that can be undertaken.      We expect many of these guarantees to expire without the need to advance any cash. The revenue associated with
guarantees frequently depends on the credit rating of the obligor and the structure of the transaction, including collateral, if any.      At Dec. 31, 2008,
potential exposure to support agreements was $244 million. Support agreement exposure is based on the securities subject to these agreements being valued at zero and the NAV of the related funds declining below established thresholds. This exposure
includes agreements covering Lehman securities, as well as other client support agreements. Future realized support agreement charges will principally depend on the price of Lehman securities, fund performance and the number of clients that accept
our offer of support.      We provided services to two qualifying special-purpose entities ( QSPEs ) at Dec. 31, 2008. All of our securitizations are
QSPEs as defined by SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities,  which, by design, are passive investment vehicles and therefore, we do not consolidate them. See Note 17
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.       Asset-backed commercial paper securitizations       In December 2008, we called the first loss notes of Old Slip, triggering the consolidation of Old Slip. In December 2007, we called the first loss notes of TRFC,
resulting in the consolidation of TRFC. See page 23 for a further discussion of both of these transactions.         
       Capital        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(c)   
   Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible identifiable intangible assets and tax deductible
goodwill, divided by total assets less goodwill and intangible assets. The deferred tax liability associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill totaled $2.4 billion, $2.5 billion and $546 million, respectively. See
page 80 for a reconciliation of this ratio.      

(d)   
   Certain rating agencies include a portion of the Series B preferred stock and trust preferred securities when assessing the capital strength of the Company. Accordingly, we
calculated the adjusted tangible common equity to assets ratio by including a portion of the Series B preferred and trust preferred securities.         The decrease in total shareholders  equity compared with Dec. 31, 2007 primarily resulted from a $4.1 billion unrealized net of tax loss on our total securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2008. The unrealized net of tax loss at
Dec. 31, 2007 was $342 million. The decrease in total shareholders  equity was partially offset by the issuance of the Series B preferred stock and warrant to purchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury, as well as earnings retention.
During 2008, we retained $286 million of earnings. Accumulated other comprehensive income declined $4.9 billion reflecting the decrease in the fair value of the securities portfolio and a decrease in the funded status of our defined benefit plans.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     67   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 In January 2009, we declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.24 per common share that was paid on Feb. 3, 2009, to shareholders of record as of
the close of business on Jan. 23, 2009.      The Tier I capital ratio varies depending on the size of the balance sheet at quarter-end. The balance sheet
size fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on levels of customer and market activity. In general, when servicing clients are more actively trading securities, deposit balances and the balance sheet as a whole are higher.      Our Tier I capital ratio was 13.3% at Dec. 31, 2008, compared with 9.3% at Dec. 31, 2007. The capital ratios at Dec. 31, 2008 compared with Dec. 31,
2007 reflect the benefit we received from the $3 billion of Series B preferred stock and a warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in October of 2008 and a lower level of risk adjusted assets. At Dec. 31, 2008, our total assets were $237.5 billion
compared with $197.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. The higher level of assets primarily resulted from higher client deposits, reflecting client reaction to market volatility. The increase in assets had no impact on the Tier I capital ratio as the
assets were primarily placed in cash or highly liquid assets that are assigned a zero risk weighting by the regulators.      A billion dollar change in
risk-weighted assets changes the Tier I ratio by 11 basis points while a $100 million change in common equity changes the Tier I ratio by 9 basis points.      In a non-taxable business combination, such as our merger with Mellon Financial, deferred tax liabilities are recorded in relation to identifiable intangible assets. The recording of this deferred tax liability results in an increase in
goodwill equal to the amount of the deferred tax liability. Bank regulators and rating agencies adjust equity upward for the amount of this deferred tax liability since it is a liability for accounting purposes and will never require a cash
settlement unless a sale occurs.      In the fourth quarter of 2008, the regulatory agencies issued a final rule allowing tax deductible goodwill, which must
be deducted from Tier I capital, to be reduced by the amount of any associated deferred tax liability. This change permits banking organizations to reflect the maximum exposure to loss in the event such goodwill is impaired or no longer recognized
for financial reporting purposes. The deferred tax liability associated with the Company s deductible goodwill was $599 million at Dec. 31, 2008. This change resulted in a 52 basis point increase to the Company s Tier I capital at
Dec. 31, 2008.      Our tangible common equity to assets ratio was 3.8% at Dec. 31, 2008, down from 5.2% at Dec. 31, 2007.   
   
 Our adjusted tangible common equity to assets ratio, which includes a portion of the Series B preferred stock and trust preferred securities, was 4.5% at
Dec. 31, 2008 compared with 5.6% at Dec. 31, 2007. The decrease in both of these ratios compared with the prior year primarily resulted from the higher level of unrealized net of tax loss on our securities portfolio.       Troubled Asset Relief Program       On Oct. 14, 2008, the U.S. government
announced the TARP CPP under the EESA. The intention of this program is to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital, to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. On Oct. 14, 2008,
the Company announced that it would be part of the initial group of nine institutions in which the U.S. Treasury would purchase an equity stake. Since Oct. 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury purchased an equity position in many other institutions.
     The Company agreed to issue and sell to the U.S. Treasury preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with the terms of
the CPP for an aggregate purchase price of $3 billion. As a result, on Oct. 28, 2008, we issued Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B ($2.779 billion) and a warrant for common stock ($221 million), as described below, to the
U.S. Treasury. The Series B preferred stock will pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Dividends will be payable quarterly in
arrears on March 20, June 20, Sept. 20 and Dec. 20 of each year. The Series B preferred stock can only be redeemed within the first three years with the proceeds of at least $750 million from one or more qualified equity
offerings. After Dec. 20, 2011, the Series B preferred stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time at our option at a price equal to 100% of the issue price plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Redemption of the Series B preferred
stock at any time will be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Under ARRA, enacted Feb. 17, 2009, the U.S. Treasury, subject to consultation with the appropriate Federal banking agency, is required to permit a TARP recipient to
repay any assistance previously provided under TARP to such financial institution, without regard to whether the financial institution has replaced such funds from any other source or to any waiting period. When such assistance is repaid, the U.S.
Treasury is required to liquidate warrants associated  

68     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 with such assistance at the current market price. The Series B Preferred Stock qualifies as Tier I capital.      Issuance of the Series B preferred shares places restrictions on our common stock dividend and repurchases of common stock. Prior to the earlier of (i) the third
anniversary of the closing date or (ii) the date on which the Series B preferred stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series B preferred stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent of the U.S. Treasury
is required to:       

Pay any dividend on our common stock other than regular quarterly dividends of not more than our current quarterly dividend of $0.24 per share; or

Redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of common stock or other capital stock or other equity securities of any kind of the Company or any trust preferred
securities issued by the Company or any affiliate except in connection with (i) any benefit plan in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (ii) market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in
the ordinary course or; (iii) acquisitions by the Company as trustees or custodians.         In addition, until such time as the U.S.
Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Company acquired pursuant to the Oct. 28, 2008 closing or exercise of the warrant described below, the Company must ensure that its compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans,
arrangements and agreements (including so-called golden parachute, severance and employment agreements (collectively,  Benefit Plans ) with respect to its Senior Executive Officers)) comply with Section 111(b) of the EESA as
implemented by any guidance and regulations issued and in effect on Oct. 28, 2008, as well as the ARRA legislation enacted in February 2009. ARRA has revised several of the provisions in the EESA with respect to executive compensation and has
enacted additional compensation limitations on TARP recipients. The provisions include new limits on the ability of TARP recipients to pay or accrue bonuses, retention awards, or incentive compensation to at least the 20 next most highly-compensated
employees in addition to the Company s Senior Executive Officers, a prohibition on golden parachute payments on such Senior Executive Officers and the next five most highly-compensated employees, a clawback of any bonus, retention or incentive
awards paid to any   
   
 Senior Executive Officer or any of the next 20 most highly-compensated employees based on materially inaccurate earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria,
a required policy restricting excessive or luxury expenditures, and a requirement that TARP recipients implement a non-binding  say-on-pay  shareholder vote on executive compensation.      In connection with the issuance of the Series B preferred stock, we issued a warrant to purchase 14,516,129 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury. The warrant
has a 10-year term and an exercise price of $31.00 per share. The warrant is immediately exercisable, in whole or in part. Exercise must be on a cashless basis unless the Company agrees to a cash exercise. However, the U.S. Treasury has agreed that
it will not transfer or exercise the warrant for more than 50% of the shares covered until the earlier of (i) the date on which we receive aggregate gross proceeds of not less than $3 billion from one or more qualified equity offerings, and
(ii) Dec. 31, 2009. If the Company completes one or more qualified equity offerings on or prior to Dec. 31, 2009 that results in the Company receiving aggregate gross proceeds of not less than $3 billion, the number of shares of common stock
originally covered by the warrant will be reduced by one-half. The U.S. Treasury will not exercise voting power associated with any shares underlying the warrant. The warrants will be classified as permanent equity under GAAP.      The proceeds from the Series B preferred stock have been utilized to improve the flow of funds in the financial markets. Specifically, we have:       

Purchased mortgage-backed securities and debentures issued by U.S. government-sponsored agencies to support efforts to increase the amount of money available to
lend to qualified borrowers in the residential housing market.      

Purchased debt securities of other financial institutions, which helps increase the amount of funds available to lend to consumers and businesses.

Continued to make loans to other financial institutions through the interbank lending market.         All of these efforts address the need to improve liquidity in the financial system and are consistent with our business model which is focused on institutional clients.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     69   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Stock repurchase programs        

(a)   
   These shares were purchased at a purchase price of less than $1 million from employees, primarily in connection with the employees  payment of taxes upon the vesting of
restricted stock.         On Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million shares of
common stock. This authorization was in addition to the authority to repurchase up to 6.5 million shares previously approved by the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors on Aug. 8, 2007 which was completed during the first quarter of
2008. There were no shares repurchased under the Dec. 18, 2007 program in the fourth quarter of 2008.         
    At Dec. 31, 2008, 33.8 million shares were available for
repurchase under the December 2007 program. There is no expiration date on this repurchase program.       Capital adequacy       Regulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including the Company and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with established
quantitative measurements. For the Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries must, among other things, qualify as well capitalized. In addition, major bank holding companies such as the Parent are expected
by the regulators to be well capitalized.      As of Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007, the Parent and our bank subsidiaries were considered well capitalized on the basis
of the ratios (defined by regulation) of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and leverage (Tier I capital to average assets), which are shown as follows:   

(a)   
   Tier I capital consists, generally, of common equity, trust-preferred securities (subject to limitations in 2009), and certain qualifying preferred stock, less goodwill and
most other intangibles, net of associated deferred tax liabilities. Beginning in 2008, the Series B preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the TARP capital purchase program is included in Tier I capital.      

(b)   
   Total capital consists of Tier I capital plus Tier II capital. Tier II capital consists, generally, of certain qualifying preferred stock and subordinated debt and
a portion of the allowance for credit losses.              If a bank holding company or bank fails to
qualify as  adequately capitalized , regulatory sanctions and limitations are imposed. At Dec. 31, 2008, the amounts of capital by which the Company and our primary bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon exceed the well-capitalized
guidelines are as follows:       
       
    At Dec. 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.7 billion of trust preferred securities outstanding, net of issuance costs. On March 1, 2005, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System adopted a final rule that allows the continued limited inclusion of trust preferred securities in the Tier I capital of bank holding companies. Under the final rule effective March 31, 2009, we will be subject to a 15%
limit in the amount of trust preferred securities that can be included in Tier I capital, net of goodwill, less any related deferred tax liability. We expect all of our trust preferred securities to qualify as Tier I capital at March 31, 2009.

70     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            The following tables present the components of our risk-based capital and risk-adjusted assets at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007.       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis.      

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     71   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Capital framework       The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies  risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the
 Basel Committee ). The Basel Committee issued, in June 2004, and updated in November 2005, a revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known as the New Accord (the  New Accord  or  Basel II ) that would set
capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for credit risk.      In the United States, U.S. regulators are
mandating the adoption of the New Accord for  core  banks. The Company and its depository institution subsidiaries are  core  banks. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based
( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for operational risk.      The U.S. regulatory agencies
published on Dec. 7, 2007, the U.S. Basel II final rule in the Federal Register. The final rule became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2008 was the first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel run and 2009 is the first
possible year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods.      In the U.S., we are currently working towards implementing Basel II,
A-IRB and AMA approaches within the required deadlines. Beginning Jan. 1, 2008 we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory
jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process.      We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices and that using the
advanced approaches, given our portfolio, could result in a reduction of risk-weighted assets notwithstanding the leverage ratio requirement.        
 Risk management       The understanding, identification and management of risk are essential elements for the successful management of the Company.
        
    Our primary risk exposures are:       

Type of risk   
     
   Description    
 
     Credit    
     
  The possible loss we would suffer if any of our borrowers or other counterparties were to default on their obligations to us. Credit
risk arises primarily from lending, trading, and securities servicing activities.   
 
     Market    
     
  The risk of loss due to adverse changes in the financial markets.
Market risk arises from derivative financial instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, and other financial instruments, including loans, securities, deposits, and other borrowings. Our market risks are primarily interest rate and
foreign exchange risk, equity risk and credit risk.   
 
     Operational    
     
  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors and systems,
or from external events.   
    Risk management and oversight begins with the Board of Directors and two key Board committees: the Risk Committee
and the Audit and Examining Committee (the  A E Committee ).      The Risk Committee is comprised of independent directors and meets on a regular
basis to review and assess our risks, and to control processes with respect to such risks, and our risk management and fiduciary policies and activities. The delegation of policy formulation and day-to-day oversight is to our Chief Risk Officer,
who, together with the Chief Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer, helps ensure an effective risk management structure. The functions of the Risk Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website,
www.bnymellon.com.      The A E Committee is also comprised of independent directors, all of whom have been determined by the Board to be financially
literate within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards as interpreted by the Board, and two of whom have been determined (based upon education and experience as a principal accounting or financial officer or public accountant, or experience
actively supervising a principal accounting or financial officer or public accountant) to be audit committee financial experts as set out in the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and to have accounting or related financial management
expertise as such qualification  

72     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 under the NYSE listing standards as interpreted by the Board. The A E Committee meets on a regular basis to perform, among other things, an oversight
review of the integrity of our financial statements and financial reporting process, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, our independent registered public accountant s qualifications and independence, and the performance of our
independent registered public accountant and our internal audit function. The A E Committee also reviews management s assessment of the adequacy of internal controls. The functions of the A E Committee are described in more detail in
its charter, a copy of which is available on our website, www.bnymellon.com.      The Senior Risk Management Committee is the senior-most management body that
approves the Company s risk appetite and tolerances and sets strategic direction and policy and provides oversight for the risk management, compliance and ethics framework.      Our risk management framework is designed to:       

Provide that risks are identified, monitored, reported, and priced properly;      

Define and communicate the types and amount of risk to take;      

Communicate to the appropriate management level, the type and amount of risk taken;      

Maintain a risk management organization that is independent of the risk taking activities; and      

Promote a strong risk management culture that encourages a focus on risk-adjusted performance.          Credit risk       To balance the value of our activities with the credit
risk incurred in pursuing them, we set and monitor internal credit limits for activities that entail credit risk, most often on the size of the exposure and the maximum maturity of credit extended. For credit exposures driven by changing market
rates and prices, exposure measures include an add-on for such potential changes.      We manage credit risk at both the individual exposure level as well as
at the portfolio level. Credit risk at the individual exposure level is managed through our credit approval system of Divisional Portfolio Managers ( DPMs ) and the Chief Credit Officer ( CCO ). The DPMs and CCO are responsible
for approving the size, terms and maturity of all credit exposures as well as the   
   
 ongoing monitoring of the exposures. In addition, they are responsible for assigning and maintaining the risk ratings on each exposure.      Credit risk management at the portfolio level is supported by the Portfolio Management Division ( PMD ) within the Risk Management and Compliance Sector. The
PMD is responsible for calculating two fundamental credit measures. First, we project a statistically expected credit loss, used to help determine the appropriate loan loss reserve and to measure customer profitability. Expected loss considers three
basic components: the estimated size of the exposure whenever default might occur, the probability of default before maturity, and the severity of the loss we would incur, commonly called  loss given default.  For corporate banking, where
most of our credit risk is created, unfunded commitments are assigned a usage given default percentage. Borrowers/Counterparties are assigned ratings by DPMs and the CCO on an 18-grade scale, which translates to a scaled probability of default.
Additionally, transactions are assigned loss-given-default ratings (on a 12-grade scale) that reflect the transactions  structures including the effects of guarantees, collateral, and relative seniority of position.      The second fundamental measurement of credit risk calculated by the PMD is called economic capital. Our economic capital model estimates the capital required to support
the overall credit risk portfolio. Using a Monte Carlo simulation engine and measures of correlation among borrower defaults, the economic model examines extreme and highly unlikely scenarios of portfolio credit loss in order to estimate credit
related capital, and then allocates that capital to individual borrowers and exposures. The credit related capital calculation supports a second tier of policy standards and limits by serving as an input to both profitability analysis and
concentration limits of capital at risk with any one borrower, industry or country.      The PMD is responsible for the calculation methodologies and the
estimates of the inputs used in those methodologies for the determination of expected loss and economic capital. These methodologies and input estimates are regularly evaluated to ensure their appropriateness and accuracy. As new techniques and data
become available, the PMD attempts to incorporate, where appropriate, those techniques or data.      Credit risk is intrinsic to much of the banking business
and necessary to its smooth functioning. However, the  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     73   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Company seeks to limit both on and off-balance sheet credit risk through prudent underwriting and the use of capital only where risk-adjusted returns
warrant. We seek to manage risk and improve our portfolio diversification through syndications, asset sales, credit enhancements, credit derivatives, and active collateralization and netting agreements. In addition, we have a separate Credit Risk
Review group, which is part of Internal Audit, made up of experienced loan review officers who perform timely reviews of the loan files and credit ratings assigned to the loans.       Market risk       Our market risk governance structure includes two committees comprised of senior executives who review
market risk activities, risk measurement methodologies and risk limits, approve new products and provide direction for our market risk profile. The Asset/Liability Management Committee oversees the market risk management process for interest rate
risk related to asset/liability management activities. The Market Risk Committee oversees the market risk management process for trading activities, including foreign exchange risk. Both committees are supported by a comprehensive risk management
process that is designed to help identify, measure, and manage market risk, as discussed under  Trading activities and risk management  and  Asset/liability management  below and in Note 27 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.       Operational risk        Overview
      In providing a comprehensive array of products and services, we are exposed to operational risk. Operational risk may result from, but is not limited
to, errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the Company or business interruption due to system failures or other events. Operational risk
also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and/or regulatory requirements. In the case of an operational event, we could suffer a financial loss as well as damage to our
reputation.      To address these risks, we maintain comprehensive policies and procedures and an internal control framework designed to provide a sound
operational environment. These controls have been designed to   
   
 manage operational risk at appropriate levels given our financial strength, the business environment and markets in which we operate, the nature of our
businesses, and considering factors such as competition and regulation. Our internal auditors and internal control group monitor and test the overall effectiveness of the internal control and financial reporting systems on an ongoing basis.
     We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed on a uniform
basis. Among the procedures designed to ensure effectiveness are our  Code of Conduct ,  Know Your Customer , and compliance training programs.       Operational risk management       We have established operational risk management as an independent risk discipline. The Operational Risk
Management ( ORM ) Group reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The organizational framework for operational risk is based upon a strong risk culture that incorporates both governance and risk management activities comprising:       

Board Oversight and Governance The Risk Committee of the Board approves and oversees our operational risk management strategy in addition to credit and market
risk. The Risk Committee meets regularly to review and approve operational risk management initiatives, discuss key risk issues, and review the effectiveness of the risk management systems.      

Business Line Accountability Business managers are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls commensurate with their risk profiles
and in accordance with the Company policies and procedures.      

ORM Group The ORM Group is responsible for developing risk management policies and tools for assessing, measuring, monitoring and managing operational risk for
the Company. The primary objectives of the ORM group are to promote effective risk management, identify emerging risks, create incentives for generating continuous improvement in controls, and to optimize capital.          Global compliance       Our global compliance function provides
leadership, guidance, and oversight to help business units identify  

74     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 applicable laws and regulations and implement effective measures to meet the specific requirements. Compliance takes a proactive approach by anticipating
evolving regulatory standards and remaining aware of industry best practices, legislative initiatives, competitive issues, and public expectations and perceptions. The function uses its global reach to disseminate information about
compliance-related matters throughout the Company. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer reports to the Chief Risk Officer, is a member of all critical committees of the Company and provides regular updates to the A E Committee of the Board of
Directors.       Internal audit       Our internal audit
function reports directly to the A E Committee of the Board of Directors. Internal audit utilizes a risk-based approach to its audit activity covering the risks in the operational, compliance, regulatory, technology, fraud, processing and other
key risk areas of the Company. Internal Audit has unrestricted access to the Company and regularly participates in key committees of the Company.       Economic capital       The Company has implemented a methodology to quantify economic capital. We define economic capital as the capital
required to protect against unexpected economic losses over a one-year period at a level consistent with the solvency of a firm with a target debt rating. We quantify economic capital requirements for the risks inherent in our business activities
using statistical modeling techniques and then aggregate them at the consolidated level. A capital reduction, or diversification benefit, is applied to reflect the unlikely event of experiencing an extremely large loss in each type of risk at the
same time. Economic capital levels are directly related to our risk profile. As such, it has become a part of our internal capital assessment process and, along with regulatory capital, is a key component to ensuring that the actual level of capital
is commensurate with our risk profile, and is sufficient to provide the financial flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives.         
    The framework and methodologies to quantify each of our
risk-types have been developed by the PMD and are designed to be consistent with our risk management principles. The framework has been approved by senior management and has been reviewed by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Due to the
evolving nature of quantification techniques, we expect to continue to refine the methodologies used to estimate our economic capital requirements.        
 Trading activities and risk management       Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers. The risk from these
market making activities and from our own positions is managed by our traders and limited in total exposure as described below.      We manage trading risk
through a system of position limits, a value-at-risk ( VAR ) methodology based on a Monte Carlo simulation, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures. Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a
separate unit on a daily basis. Based on certain assumptions, the VAR methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse changes in fair values of all trading positions. The calculation assumes a one-day
holding period for most instruments, utilizes a 99% confidence level, and incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options. The VAR model is the basis for the economic capital calculation, which is allocated to lines of business for computing
risk-adjusted performance.      As the VAR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk
assessment process includes a number of stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions. Additional stress scenarios based upon historic market events are also performed. Stress
tests, by their design, incorporate the impact of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations. The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     75   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The following tables indicate the calculated VAR
amounts for the trading portfolio for the years ended Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007.       

(a)   
   VAR figures do not reflect the impact of the credit valuation adjustment resulting from the adoption of FAS 157.      

(b)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

N/M   
   - Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.
        During 2008, interest rate risk generated 39% of average VAR, credit risk generated 28% of average VAR, equity risk generated 20% of
average VAR, and foreign exchange risk accounted for 13% of average VAR. During 2008, our daily trading loss exceeded our calculated VAR amount of the overall portfolio on two occasions.         
       Foreign
exchange and other trading       Under our mark to market methodology for derivative contracts, an initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed
on each position assuming time-discounting based on an AA credit curve. In addition, we consider credit risk in arriving at the fair value of our derivatives.      As required by SFAS 157, in the first quarter of 2008 we began to reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our
derivative positions.      Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as
those of our counterparties. In addition, in cases where a counterparty is deemed impaired, further analyses are performed to value such positions.      At
Dec. 31, 2008, our over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative assets of $10.5 billion included a credit valuation adjustment ( CVA ) deduction of $90 million, including $84 million related to the declining credit quality of CDO
counterparties. Our OTC derivative liabilities of $8.1 billion included an increase to revenue of $44 million related to our own credit spread. These adjustments decreased foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue by $46 million in 2008.
     The table below summarizes the risk ratings for our foreign exchange and interest rate derivative counterparty credit exposure. The decrease in the
highest ratings category reflects the credit ratings decline of several large financial institution counterparties.   

(a)   
   Represents credit rating agency equivalent of internal credit ratings. Prior period percentages have been revised to reflect the current methodology.
           
   76     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
    Asset/liability management       Our
diversified business activities include processing securities, accepting deposits, investing in securities, lending, raising money as needed to fund assets, and other transactions. The market risks from these activities are interest rate risk and
foreign exchange risk. Our primary market risk is exposure to movements in U.S. dollar interest rates and certain foreign currency interest rates. We actively manage interest rate sensitivity and use earnings simulation and discounted cash flow
models to identify interest rate exposures.      An earnings simulation model is the primary tool used to assess changes in pre-tax net interest revenue. The
model incorporates management s assumptions regarding interest rates, balance changes on core deposits, market spreads, changes in the prepayment behavior of loans and securities and the impact of derivative financial instruments used for
interest rate risk management purposes. These assumptions have been developed through a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior and are inherently uncertain. As a result, the earnings simulation model cannot precisely
estimate net interest revenue or the impact of higher or lower interest rates on net interest revenue. Actual results may differ from projected results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, and changes in market conditions
and management s strategies, among other factors.      We evaluate the effect on earnings by running various interest rate ramp scenarios from a baseline
scenario. These scenarios are reviewed to examine the impact of large interest rate movements. Interest rate sensitivity is quantified by calculating the change in pre-tax net interest revenue between the scenarios over a 12-month measurement
period.      The following table shows net interest revenue sensitivity for the Company:       
        The
baseline scenario s Fed Funds rate in the Dec. 31, 2008 analysis was 0.25%. The 100 basis point ramp scenarios assume short-term rates change 25 basis points in each of the next four quarters and the 200   
   
 basis point ramp scenarios assume a 50 basis point per quarter change. Both the up 100 basis point and the up 200 basis point Dec. 31, 2008 scenarios assume
a steepening of the yield curve with 10-year rates rising 136 and 236 basis points, respectively. These scenarios do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change. The previous table
relies on certain critical assumptions regarding the balance sheet and depositors  behavior related to interest rate fluctuations and the prepayment and extension risk in certain of our assets. To the extent that actual behavior is different
from that assumed in the models, there could be a change in interest rate sensitivity.      We also project future cash flows from our assets and liabilities
over a long-term horizon and then discount these cash flows using instantaneous parallel shocks to interest rates. The aggregation of these discounted cash flows is the Economic Value of Equity ( EVE ). The following table shows how the
EVE would change in response to changes in interest rates:       
        These
results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change.      The asymmetrical accounting
treatment of the impact of a change in interest rates on our balance sheet may create a situation in which an increase in interest rates can adversely affect reported equity and regulatory capital, even though economically there may be no impact on
our economic capital position. For example, an increase in rates will result in a decline in the value of our fixed income investment portfolio, which will be reflected through a reduction in other comprehensive income in our shareholders 
equity, thereby affecting our tangible common equity ( TCE ) ratios. Under current accounting rules, to the extent FAS 159 is not applied, there is no corresponding change on our fixed liabilities, even though economically these
liabilities are more valuable as rates rise.      We project the impact of this change using the same interest rate shock assumptions described earlier and
compare the projected mark-to-market on the investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2008, under the higher rate environments versus a stable rate  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     77   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             scenario. The table below shows the impact of a
change in interest rates on the TCE ratio:       
    These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate
expectations change.      To manage foreign exchange risk, we fund foreign currency-denominated assets with liability instruments denominated in the same
currency. We utilize various foreign exchange contracts if a liability denominated in the same currency is not available or desired, and to minimize the earnings impact of translation gains or losses created by investments in foreign markets. The
foreign exchange risk related to the interest rate spread on foreign currency-denominated asset/liability positions is managed as part of our trading activities. We use forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of our net investment in
foreign operations. At Dec. 31, 2008, net investments in foreign operations totaled approximately $6.2 billion and were spread across 14 foreign currencies.        
 Business continuity       We are prepared for events that could damage our physical facilities, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions,
including telecommunications networks, or impair our clients, vendors, and counterparties. Key elements of our business continuity strategies are extensive planning and testing, and diversity of business operations, data centers and
telecommunications infrastructure.      We have established multiple geographically diverse locations for our funds transfer and broker-dealer services
operational units, which provide redundant functionality to facilitate uninterrupted operations.      Our securities clearing, mutual fund accounting and
custody, securities lending, master trust, Unit Investment Trust, corporate trust, stock transfer, item processing, wealth management and treasury units have common functionality in multiple sites designed to facilitate continuance of operations or
rapid recovery. In addition, we have recovery positions for over 12,500 employees on a global basis of which over 6,000 are proprietary.      We continue to
enhance geographic diversity for business operations by moving additional personnel to   
   
 growth centers outside of existing major urban centers. We replicate 100% of our critical production computer data to multiple recovery data centers.
     We have an active telecommunications diversity program. All major buildings and data centers have diverse telecommunications carriers. The data centers
have multiple fiber optic rings and have been designed so that there is no single point of failure. All major buildings have been designed with diverse telecommunications access and connect to at least two geographically dispersed connection points.
We have an active program to audit circuits for route diversity and to test customer back-up connections.      In 2003, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Securities and Exchange Commission jointly published the Interagency Paper,  Sound Practices to Strengthen the Resilience of the U.S. Financial System  ( Sound
Practices Paper ). The purpose of the document was to define the guidelines for the financial services industry and other interested parties regarding  best practices  related to business continuity planning. Under these guidelines we
are a key clearing and settlement organization required to meet a higher standard for business continuity.      We believe we have substantially met all of the
requirements of the Sound Practices Paper. As a core clearing and settlement organization, we believe that we are at the forefront of the industry in improving business continuity practices.      We are committed to seeing that requirements for business continuity are met not just within our own facilities, but also within those of vendors and service providers
whose operation is critical to our safety and soundness. To that end, we have a Service Provider Management Office whose function is to review new and existing service providers and vendors to see that they meet our standards for business
continuity, as well as for information security, financial stability, personnel practices, etc.      We have developed a comprehensive plan to prepare for the
possibility of a flu pandemic, which anticipates significant reduced staffing levels and will provide for increased remote working by staff for one or more periods lasting several weeks.      Although we are committed to observing best practices as well as meeting regulatory requirements, geopolitical uncertainties and other external factors will continue to create risk that cannot always be identified and
anticipated.   
       
   78     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Supplemental Information (unaudited)                     Supplemental information
  Explanation of non-GAAP financial measures       Reported amounts are presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP
information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe they facilitate comparisons         
    with prior periods and
reflect the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items also are excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them
particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.   

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     79   

Table of Contents  

    Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.          

(a)   
   Results for 2006 reflect legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Assigned a zero percent risk weighting by the regulators.            
   80     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                       Supplemental information   Rate/volume analysis        

(a)   
   Changes which are solely due to balance changes or rate changes are allocated to such categories on the basis of the respective percentage changes in average balances and average
rates. Changes in interest revenue or interest expense arising from the combination of rate and volume variances are allocated proportionately to rate and volume based on their relative absolute magnitudes            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     81   

Table of Contents  

      Recent Accounting Developments                 
  SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests and EITF 08-10 Selected SFAS No. 160 implementation questions       In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 ( SFAS 160 ),  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB
No. 51.  SFAS 160 amends ARB No. 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary (i.e., minority interest) and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement applies to all
entities that prepare consolidated financial statements. This statement clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is to be part of the equity of the controlling group and is to be reported on the balance sheet within the equity
section separately from the Company as a distinct item. The equity section of the balance sheet will be required to present equity attributable to both controlling and noncontrolling interests. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is
adjusted to reflect the change in ownership interest, and any difference between the amount by which the noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity attributable to
the noncontrolling interest (i.e., as additional paid-in capital). Any transaction that results in the loss of control of a subsidiary is considered a remeasurement event with any retained interest remeasured at fair value. The gain or loss
recognized in income includes both the realized gain or loss related to the portion of the ownership interest sold and the gain or loss on the remeasurement to fair value of the retained interest.      We adopted SFAS 160 on Jan. 1, 2009. This statement is to be applied prospectively as of Jan. 1, 2009, except for the presentation requirements. Presentation and
disclosure requirements are to be applied retroactively for all periods presented. At Jan. 1, 2009, $4.5 million of minority interest liabilities was reclassified from liabilities to equity on our balance sheet. For acquisitions completed after Jan.
1, 2009, where less than 100% of the entity is purchased, the purchase price and goodwill will need to be allocated between controlling and non-controlling interests.       SFAS No. 141 (revised) Business Combinations       In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised
2007) ( SFAS 141(R) ),  Business Combinations.  SFAS 141(R) requires all acquisitions of businesses to be measured at the fair value of the business acquired rather than the cost allocation   
   
 process specified in SFAS No. 141. Upon adoption, SFAS 141(R) will not have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.
However, any business combination entered into beginning in 2009 may significantly impact our financial position and results of operations compared with how it would have been recorded under prior GAAP. Earnings volatility could result, depending on
the terms of the acquisition. This statement requires deal costs, such as legal, investment banking, and due diligence costs to be expensed as incurred, lowers the threshold for recording acquisition contingencies and requires contingencies to be
measured at fair value. This statement applies to business combination transactions completed subsequent to Dec. 31, 2008.       SFAS
No. 161 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities       In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures
about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 . SFAS No. 161 requires entities to disclose the fair value of derivative instruments and their gains or losses in tabular format and
information about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements, counterparty credit risk, and strategies and objectives for using derivative instruments. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about how and why an
entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under Statement 133 and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity s financial position, financial performance
and cash flows. We adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS 161 as of Dec. 31, 2008.       FSP No. SFAS 142-3 Useful life of intangible assets  
     In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. SFAS 142-3 ( FSP 142-3 ),  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
Assets . FSP 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142. For a recognized intangible asset, an
entity shall disclose information that enables users of financial statements to assess the extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the asset are affected by the entity s intent and/or ability to review or extend the
arrangement. FSP 142-3 was effective Jan. 1, 2009. The impact of this FSP should be minimal to the  

82     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      Recent Accounting Developments    (continued)                    
 Company as we currently consider the pattern of customer renewals or extensions when we use cash flows to assign fair values and related useful lives to
intangible assets.       IFRS       International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of standards and interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board. The SEC is currently considering a potential IFRS adoption process in the U.S., which would, in the near term, provide
certain domestic issuers with an alternative accounting method and ultimately could replace U.S. GAAP reporting requirements with IFRS reporting requirements. The intention of this adoption would be to provide the capital markets community with a
single set of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards. The adoption of IFRS for U.S. companies with global operations would allow for streamlined reporting, allow for easier access to foreign capital markets and investments, and
facilitate   
   
 cross-border acquisitions, ventures or spin-offs. In November 2008, the SEC proposed a  roadmap  for phasing in mandatory IFRS filings by U.S.
public companies beginning for years ending on or after December 15, 2014. The roadmap is conditional on progress towards milestones that would demonstrate improvements in both the infrastructure of international standard setting and the
preparation of the U.S. financial reporting community. The SEC will monitor progress of these milestones between now and 2011, when the SEC plans to consider requiring U.S. public companies to adopt IFRS. The SEC had initially allowed for a 60-day
comment period on its roadmap proposal, ending Feb. 19, 2009. However, in February 2009, the SEC extended the comment period to April 20, 2009.       Adoption of new accounting standards       For a discussion of the adoption of new accounting standards, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     83   

Table of Contents  

      Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)              

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Amount does not foot due to rounding.      

(c)   
   Continuing operations basis.      

(e)   
   At period end.            
   84     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      Forward-Looking Statements                 
 Some statements in this document are forward-looking. These include all statements about the future results of the Company; projected business growth,
statements with respect to the merger of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial with and into the Company; expectations with respect to operations after the merger; the Company s plans and long term financial goals;
expectations with respect to reductions in our workforce; expectations with respect to our expenses; the impact of changes in the value of market indices; expectations with respect to fees and assets; factors affecting the performance of our
segments; statements on our corporate lending strategy; statements on our targeted customers; descriptions of our critical accounting estimates, including management s estimates of probable losses; management s judgment in determining the
size of unallocated allowances, the effect of credit ratings on allowances, estimates and cash flow models; judgments and analyses with respect to interest rate swaps, estimates or fair value, other-than-temporary impairment, goodwill and other
intangibles; and long-term financial goals, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to: expected annual expense synergies; total M I costs; the expected increase in the percentage of revenue and income
from outside the U.S.; and in the level of fee revenue per employee; reasons why our businesses are compatible with our strategies and goals; growth in our segments and assets; globalization of the investment process; targeted capital ratios; the
impact of the events in the global markets in 2008, the Treasury s extension of certain programs created to address those events and expenses incurred with respect to these programs; deposit levels; expectations with respect to earnings per
share; assumptions with respect to pension plans, including discount rates, expected future returns, contributions and benefit payments; statements with respect to our intent to hold securities until maturity; assumptions with respect to residential
mortgage-backed securities; expected losses included in securities write-downs and impairments; expectations with respect to our SIV securities; expectations with respect to our future exposure to private equity activities; statements on our fund
commitments and institutional credit strategies; goals with respect to our commercial portfolio; descriptions of our allowance for credit losses and loan losses; descriptions of our exposure to support agreements; statements with respect to our
liquidity targets; expectations with respect to capital, including anticipated repayment and call of outstanding debt and issuance of replacement securities; statements on our target double leverage ratio expectations with   
   
 respect to securities lending guarantees expiring without the need to advance cash; expectations with respect to the well-capitalized status of the Company
and its bank subsidiaries; the effects of the implementation of Basel II; compliance with the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper; descriptions of our risk management framework; quantifications of our economic capital; statements with respect
to our risk management methodologies and descriptions of our earnings simulation models and assumptions; statements with respect to our disaster preparedness and our business continuity plans; additional consideration with respect to acquisitions
and effect of geopolitical factors and other external factors; timing and impact of adoption of recent accounting pronouncements; ability to realize benefit of deferred tax assets including carryovers; calculations of the fair value of our option
grants; statements with respect to unrecognized compensation costs; our assessment of the adequacy of our accruals for tax liabilities; amount of dividends bank subsidiaries can pay without regulatory waiver; the expected outcome and impact of
judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings, including the claims raised by The Federal Customs Service of The Russian Federation and matters relating to the information returns and
withholding tax.      In this report, any other report, any press release or any written or oral statement that the Company or its executives may make, words
such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident,   target,   expect,   intend,   seek,   believe,   plan, 
 goal,   could,   should,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements.
     Factors that could cause the Company s results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, as well as other
uncertainties affecting future results and the value of the Company s stock and factors which represent risks associated with the business and operations of the Company, can be found in the  Risk Factors  section of the Company s
annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, and any subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) by the Company pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ).      Forward-looking statements, including discussions and projections of future results of operations and  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     85   

Table of Contents  

      Forward-Looking Statements    (continued)                    
 discussions of future plans contained in the MD A, are based on management s current expectations and assumptions that involve risks and
uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond the Company s control), including adverse changes in market conditions and the timing of such changes, and the actions that management
could take in response to these changes. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties and the risks and uncertainties described in the documents referred to in the preceding
paragraph. The  Risk Factors  discussed in the Form 10-K could cause or contribute to such   
   
 differences. Investors should consider all risks mentioned elsewhere in this document and in subsequent reports filed by the Company with the Commission
pursuant to the Exchange Act, as well as other uncertainties affecting future results and the value of the Company s stock.      All forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect
the occurrence of unanticipated events.   
       
   86     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      Glossary                 
  Accumulated Benefit Obligation ( ABO )  The actuarial present value of benefits (vested and non-vested) attributed to employee services
rendered.       Adjusted tangible common shareholders  equity to assets  Common shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangible assets
adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible identifiable intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill, plus a portion of the Series B preferred stock and trust preferred securities divided by total assets less goodwill,
intangible assets, cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and U.S. government-backed commercial paper.       Alt-A
Securities  A mortgage risk categorization that falls between prime and subprime. Borrowers behind these mortgages will typically have clean credit histories but the mortgage itself will generally have issues that increase its risk profile
such as inadequate documentation of the borrower s income or higher loan-to-value and debt-to-income ratios.       Alternative
investments  Usually refers to investments in hedge funds, leveraged loans, subordinated and distressed debt, real estate and foreign currency overlay. Many hedge funds pursue strategies that are uncommon relative to mutual funds. Examples
of alternative investment strategies are: long-short equity, event driven, statistical arbitrage, fixed income arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, short bias, global macro, and equity market neutral.       APAC  Asia-Pacific region.       Assets under custody and
administration  Assets held in a fiduciary capacity for which various services are provided such as; custody, accounting, administration valuations and performance measurement. These assets are not on our balance sheet.       Assets under management  Assets held in a fiduciary capacity that are either actively or passively managed. These assets are not on our balance sheet.
      bp    basis point.       Collateral
management  A comprehensive program designed to simplify collateralization and expedite securities transfers for buyers and sellers. The Company acting as an independent collateral manager is positioned between the buyer and seller to
provide a convenient, flexible, and efficient service to ensure proper collateralization throughout the term of the   
   
 transaction. The service includes verification of securities eligibility and maintenance of margin requirements.       Collateralized Debt Obligations ( CDOs )  A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product constructed from a portfolio of fixed-income
assets. CDOs are divided into different tranches and losses are applied in reverse order of seniority.       Credit derivatives  Contractual
agreements that provide insurance against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. The nature of the credit event is established by the buyer and seller at the inception of the transaction, such events include bankruptcy, insolvency and
failure to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a contingent payment by the seller (insurer) following a credit event.       Credit risk  The risk of loss due to borrower or counterparty default.       Cross-currency
swaps  Contracts that generally involve the exchange of both interest and principal amounts in two different currencies. Also, see interest rate swaps in this glossary.       Depositary Receipts ( DR )  A negotiable security that generally represents a non-U.S. company s publicly traded equity. Although typically denominated in U.S. dollars, DRs can also be
denominated in Euros. DRs are eligible to trade on all U.S. stock exchanges and many European stock exchanges. American depositary receipts ( ADR ) trade only in the U.S.       Derivative  A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or
financial or commodity indices.       Discontinued operations  The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by SFAS No. 144,
that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management s intention to sell the component.       Double
leverage  The situation that exists when a holding company s equity investments in wholly-owned subsidiaries (including goodwill and intangibles) exceed its equity capital. Double leverage is created when a bank holding company issues
debt and downstreams the proceeds to a subsidiary as an equity investment.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     87   

Table of Contents  

    Glossary    (continued)                    
  Economic Value of Equity ( EVE )  An aggregation of discounted future cash flows of assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon.
      EMEA  Europe, the Middle East and Africa.       Exchange Traded Fund ( ETF )  Each share of an ETF tracks a basket of stocks in some index or benchmark, providing investors with a vehicle that closely parallels the performance of these benchmarks while allowing for
intraday trading.       Expected incurred loss  The principal amount of securities that is not expected to be repaid, generally due to credit losses.
May refer to the amount of incurred loss that occurs during a period or the amount resident in a portfolio at a point in time.       FASB  Financial
Accounting Standards Board.       FICO score  A type of credit score that makes up a substantial portion of the credit report that lenders use to
assess an applicant s credit risk and whether to extend a loan. The FICO score assesses an applicant s payment history, current level of indebtedness, types of credit used, length of credit history and new credit to determine credit risk.
      Foreign currency options  Similar to interest rate options except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also, see interest rate options in
this glossary.       Foreign currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future
dates.       Foreign exchange contracts  Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon
terms.       Forward rate agreements  Contracts to exchange payments on a specified future date, based on a market change in interest rates from
trade date to contract settlement date.       Fully Taxable Equivalent ( FTE )  Basis for comparison of yields on assets having ordinary
taxability with assets for which special tax exemptions apply. The FTE adjustment reflects an increase in the interest yield or return on a tax-exempt asset to a level that would be comparable had the asset been fully taxable.       Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP )  Accounting rules and conventions   
   
 defining acceptable practices in preparing financial statements in the U.S. The FASB is the primary source of accounting rules.       Granularity  Refers to the amount of concentration in the credit portfolio due to large individual exposures. One measure of granularity is the amount of
economic capital attributable to an exposure. As the average economic capital per exposure declines, the portfolio is considered to be more granular.       Hedge fund  A fund, usually used by wealthy individuals and institutions, which is allowed to use aggressive strategies that are unavailable to mutual funds, including selling short, leverage, program trading, swaps, arbitrage,
and derivatives. Hedge funds are exempt from many of the rules and regulations governing mutual funds, which allow them to accomplish aggressive investing goals. Legal requirements in many countries allow only certain sophisticated investors to
participate in hedge funds.       Home Equity Line of Credit ( HELOC )  A line of credit extended to a homeowner who uses the
borrower s home as collateral.       Impairment  When an asset s market value is less than its carrying value.       Interest rate options, including caps and floors  Contracts to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a premium when the contract is
initiated. As a writer of interest rate options, we receive a premium in exchange for bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely, as a purchaser of an option, we pay a premium for the right, but not the obligation, to buy
or sell a financial instrument or currency at predetermined terms in the future.       Interest rate sensitivity  The exposure of net interest income
to interest rate movements.       Interest rate swaps  Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency is exchanged over a
prescribed period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities. An example of a situation in which we would utilize an interest rate swap would be to convert our
fixed-rate debt to a variable rate. By entering into the swap, the principal amount of the debt would remain unchanged, but the interest streams would change.   
       
   88     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Glossary    (continued)                      Investment grade loans and
commitments  Those where the customer has a Moody s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard   Poor s long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings.
      Joint venture  A company or entity owned and operated by a group of companies for a specific business purpose, no one of which has a majority
interest.       Lease-In-Lease-Out ( LILO ) transaction  A transaction in which a person or entity leases property from the owner for a
specified time period and then leases the property back to that owner for a shorter time period. The obligations of the property owner as sublessee are usually secured by deposits, letters of credit, or marketable securities.       Leverage ratio  Tier I Capital divided by leverage assets. Leverage assets are defined as quarterly average total assets, net of goodwill, intangibles
and certain other items as required by the Federal Reserve.       Liquidity risk  The risk of being unable to fund our portfolio of assets at
appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price.       Loans for purchasing
or carrying securities  Loans primarily to brokers and dealers in securities.       Margin loans  A loan that is used to purchase shares of
stock. The shares purchased are used as collateral for the loan.       Mark-to-market exposure  A measure, at a point in time, of the value of a
derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes us and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for us. When the mark-to-market is negative, we owe the counterparty. In
this situation, we do not have repayment risk.       Market risk  The potential loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by
movements in market variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices.       Master netting
agreement  An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract.
        
     Mortgage-Backed Security ( MBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by the principal and interest payments of a set of mortgage
loans.       N/A  Not applicable.       N/M  Not
meaningful.       Net interest margin  The result of dividing net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets.       Operating leverage  The rate of increase in revenue to the rate of increase in expenses.       Operational risk  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events.       Option ARMS  A type of adjustable rate mortgage where the lender offers several payment options to the borrower. These options may include payment of principal and interest amounts similar to those made in
conventional mortgages, or alternative payment options where the borrower can make significantly smaller, interest-only or minimum payments.       Performance fees  Fees paid to an investment advisor based upon the fund s performance for the period relative to various predetermined benchmarks.       Prime securities  A classification of borrowers who have a high-value and/or a good credit history.       Pre-tax
operating margin (FTE)  Income before tax on an FTE basis for a period divided by total revenue on an FTE basis for that period.       Projected
Benefit Obligation ( PBO )  The actuarial present value of all benefits accrued on employee service rendered prior to the calculation date, including allowance for future salary increases if the pension benefit is based on future
compensation levels.       Qualified Special Purpose Entity ( QSPE )  A special purpose entity whose activities are strictly limited to
holding and servicing financial assets and meet the requirements set forth in SFAS No. 140. A qualified special purpose entity is generally not required to be consolidated by any party.       Residential mortgage-backed security  A type of security which is backed by mortgages on residential real estate.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     89   

Table of Contents  

    Glossary    (continued)                      Restructuring charges  Typically
result from the consolidation and/or relocation of operations. Restructuring charges may be incurred in connection with a business combination, a change in an enterprise s strategic plan, or a managerial response to declines in demand.
      Return on assets  Income divided by average assets.       Return on tangible common equity  Income, excluding intangible amortization, divided by average tangible common shareholders  equity.       Return on common equity  Income divided by average common shareholders  equity.       Sale-In-Lease-Out ( SILO )
transaction  A transaction in which an entity leases its property to a corporation. The corporation simultaneously leases the property back to the entity for a shorter period of time. The SILO arrangement typically involves a service
contract which guarantees a fixed return to the corporation.       Securities lending short-term investment fund   For some of our securities lending
clients, we invest the cash collateral received in the customer s securities lending transactions in a commingled investment fund.       Securities
lending transaction  A fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term
basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days.       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
( SFAS )  Statement published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.       Structured Investment Vehicle ( SIV )  A
fund which borrows money by issuing short-term securities at low interest and then lends money by buying long-term securities at higher interest.       Sub-custodian  A local provider (e.g., a bank) contracted by us to provide specific custodial related services in a selected country or geographic area. Services generally include holding foreign securities in safekeeping,
facilitating settlements and reporting holdings to the custodian.         
     Subprime securities  A classification of borrowers
with a tarnished or limited credit history. Subprime loans carry increased credit risk and subsequently carry higher interest rates.       Tangible common
equity ratio ( TCE )  Common shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with tax deductible goodwill and non-tax deductible intangible assets divided by period-end
total assets less goodwill, intangible assets, deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and U.S. government-backed commercial paper.       Tangible common shareholders  equity  Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill.       Tier I and total capital  Includes common shareholders  equity (excluding certain components of comprehensive income), Series B preferred stock,
qualifying trust preferred securities and minority interest in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and
tax deductible goodwill and a deduction for certain non-financial equity investments. Total capital includes Tier I capital, qualifying unrealized equity securities gains, qualifying subordinated debt and the allowance for credit losses.
      Unfunded commitments  Legally binding agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date.       Value at Risk ( VAR )  A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss at a specified confidence level from adverse market movements in an ordinary
market environment.       Variable Interest Entity ( VIE )  An entity that: (1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the
entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the entity s operations; and/or (3) has equity owners that do
not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity s losses or return.     
       
   90     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE AND SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ANNUAL CERTIFICATIONS                 
 Because our common stock is listed on the NYSE, our Chief Executive Officer is required to make an annual certification to the NYSE stating that he was not
aware of any violation by the Company of the Corporate Governance Listing Standards of the NYSE. The Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation submitted this annual certification to the NYSE for 2008 on May 8, 2008, and
our Chief Executive Officer will submit the 2009   
   
 certification after our 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with NYSE rules.      We have filed with the SEC the certification required to be made by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer under Section 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, as exhibits to the Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008.   
           REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING                Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Corporation, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      The Company s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has assessed
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in   
   
 Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based upon such assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2008, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.      KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the 2008
financial statements included in this Annual Report under  Financial Statements and Notes,  has issued a report with respect to the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
page 92.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     91   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM                 The Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s (the  Company ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria
established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income,
changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2008, and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
        /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 27, 2009         
   92     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT                  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     93   

Table of Contents  

    CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT    (continued)   
                 The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   All earnings per share data and average shares outstanding are presented in post-merger share count terms.      

(c)   
   Represents stock options outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted average shares because the exercise prices of the instruments were greater than the average
fair value of our common stock during the periods.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   94     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET                  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     95   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS                  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   96     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY                  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        
 
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement          
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     97   

Table of Contents  

      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                   1. Summary of significant accounting and reporting
policies        Basis of Presentation       The accounting
and financial reporting policies of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a global financial services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and prevailing industry practices. The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates based on assumptions about future economic and market conditions which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in our financial statements. Although our current
estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that in 2009, actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of
operations and financial condition. Amounts subject to significant estimates are items such as the allowance for loan losses and lending related commitments, goodwill and intangible assets, pension and post-retirement obligations, the fair value of
financial instruments and other-than-temporary impairments. Among other effects, such changes could result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill and intangible assets and establishment of allowances for loan losses and lending
related commitments as well as increased pension and post-retirement expense.      In addition to discontinued operations (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements), other immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with current period presentation.      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Equity investments of less than a majority but at least 20% ownership are accounted for by the equity method and classified as other assets.
Earnings on these investments are reflected in fee and other revenue as securities servicing fees or investment income, as appropriate, in the period earned. Our most significant equity method investments are:       
       
    The income statement and balance sheet include results of acquired businesses accounted for under the purchase method of accounting pursuant to SFAS No. 141
 Business Combinations  and equity investments from the dates of acquisition. We record any contingent purchase payments when the amounts are resolved and become payable.      The Parent Corporation financial statements in Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Parent Corporation; those of a wholly owned financing subsidiary that functions as a
financing entity for the Company and its subsidiaries by issuing commercial paper and other debt guaranteed by the Company; and MIPA, LLC, a single member company, created to hold and administer corporate owned life insurance. Financial data for the
Parent Corporation, the financing subsidiary and the single member company are combined for financial reporting purposes because of the limited function of these entities and the unconditional guarantee by the Company of their obligations.
     We consider the underlying facts and circumstances of individual transactions when assessing whether or not an entity is a potential variable interest
entity (VIE). The Company s assessment focuses on the dispersion of risks and rewards attributable to the potential VIE. VIEs are entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. A company
is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and thus required to consolidate a VIE, if the company has a variable interest (or combination of variable interests) that will absorb a majority of the VIE s expected losses, that will receive a majority
of the VIE s expected residual returns, or both. A  variable interest  is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets.  Expected losses  and
 expected residual returns  are measures of variability in the expected cash flows of a VIE. When we transfer financial assets in a securitization to a VIE, the VIE must represent a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) or we would
continue to consolidate the transferred financial assets. QSPE status is achieved when all conditions specified in SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,  are met.
Those conditions focus on whether the entity is demonstrably distinct from the Company, limited to only permitted activities, limited on what assets the QSPE may hold, and limited on sales or other dispositions of assets. We also obtain  

98     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 the required true-sale opinions from outside counsel on all securitizations. We have determined that all of our securitization trusts are QSPEs.   
   Nature of operations       The Company is a global leader in providing
a broad range of financial products and services in domestic and international markets. Through our seven business segments (Asset Management, Wealth Management, Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Clearing Services, Treasury Services and Other), we
serve the following major classes of customers institutions, corporations, and high net worth individuals. For institutions and corporations we provide the following services:       

investment management;          

trust and custody;          

foreign exchange;          

securities lending;          

depositary receipts;          

corporate trust;          

shareowner services;          

global payment/cash management; and          

banking services.         For individuals, we provide
mutual funds, separate accounts, wealth management and private banking services. The Company s asset management businesses provide investment products in many asset classes and investment styles on a global basis.       Trading account securities, available-for-sale, securities, and held-to-maturity securities       Securities are generally classified in the trading account securities portfolio, the available-for-sale securities portfolio or the held-to-maturity securities portfolio when they are purchased. Securities are
classified as trading account securities when the intent is profit maximization through market appreciation and resale. Securities are classified as available-for-sale securities when we intend to hold the securities for an indefinite period of time
or when the securities may be used for tactical asset/liability purposes and may be sold from time to time to effectively manage interest rate exposure, prepayment risk and liquidity needs. Securities are classified as held-to-maturity securities
when we intend to hold them until maturity. Seed capital investments are   
   
 classified as other assets, trading account securities or available- for-sale securities, depending on the nature of the investment and management s
intent.      Trading account securities are stated at fair value. Trading revenue includes both realized and unrealized gains and losses. The liability
incurred on short-sale transactions, representing the obligation to deliver securities, is included in trading account liabilities at fair value.      Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on assets classified as available for sale, net of tax, are recorded as an addition to or deduction from other comprehensive results. Held-to-maturity
securities are stated at cost, adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount on a level yield basis. Gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are reported in the income statement. The cost of debt and equity
securities sold is determined on a specific identification and average cost method, respectively. Unrealized gains and losses on seed capital investments classified as Other assets are recorded in investment income.      We conduct quarterly reviews to identify and evaluate investments that have indications of probable impairment. An investment in a debt or equity security is impaired if
its market value is less than its carrying value. We examine various factors when determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary. For debt securities, the primary factor is whether we expect all contractual principal and interest payments
to be made on a timely basis. Examples of other factors that may indicate that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred include:       

Fair value is below cost;          

The decline in fair value has existed for an extended period of time;          

Management does not possess both the intent and the ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair
value;          

The decline in fair value is attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment;          

The decline in fair value is attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area;      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     99   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                  

A debt security has been downgraded by a rating agency; and          

A debt security exhibits a cash flow deterioration.          

For each non-agency residential mortgage-backed security, we compare the remaining credit enhancement that protects the individual security from losses against the
projected total amount of credit losses expected to come from the underlying mortgage collateral, in order to determine whether such credit losses might directly impact the relevant security and, if so, whether an OTTI has occurred.
        Securities with an unrealized loss that is determined to be other-than-temporary are written down to fair value, with the write-down
recorded as a realized loss in securities gains (losses). A portion of the difference between the expected incurred loss and fair market value loss is accreted into interest revenue over management s best estimate of the remaining life of the
security.      The accounting policies for the determination of the fair value of financial instruments and other-than-temporary impairment have been
identified as  critical accounting estimates  as they require us to make numerous assumptions based on available market data.       Loans and
leases       Loans are reported net of any unearned discount. Loan origination and upfront commitment fees, as well as certain direct loan origination and
commitment costs, are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the lives of the related loans. Deferred fees and costs are netted against outstanding loan balances. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair
value.      Unearned revenue on direct financing leases is accreted over the lives of the leases in decreasing amounts to provide a constant rate of return on
the net investment in the leases. Revenue on leveraged leases is recognized on a basis to achieve a constant yield on the outstanding investment in the lease, net of the related deferred tax liability, in the years in which the net investment is
positive. Gains and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are included in other income. Considering the nature of these leases and the number of significant assumptions, there is risk associated with the income recognition on

these leases should any of the assumptions change materially in future periods.       Nonperforming assets       Commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest is past due 90
days or more, or when there is reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected. Residential mortgage and consumer loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when, in our judgment, collection is in doubt or the loans are 90 days or
more delinquent, subject to an impairment test. Real estate acquired in satisfaction of loans is carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the property or fair value minus estimated costs to sell.      When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against current period interest revenue. Interest receipts on
nonaccrual and impaired loans are recognized as interest revenue or are applied to principal when we believe the ultimate collectibility of principal is in doubt. Nonaccrual loans generally are restored to an accrual basis when principal and
interest payments become current.      A loan is considered to be impaired, as defined by SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a
Loan,  when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all principal and interest amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. An impairment allowance is measured on loans greater than $1 million and which meet
the definition of an impaired loan per SFAS No. 114.      Impaired loans are required to be measured based upon the loan s market price, the present
value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s initial effective interest rate, or at fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded value of the loan, an
impairment allowance is established by either an allocation of the allowance for credit losses or by a provision for credit losses. Impairment allowances are not needed when the recorded investment in an impaired loan is less than the loan
valuation.      In addition, securities for which there is uncertainty as to the expected collection of interest or principal, are also recorded on a
nonaccrual basis similar to loans.   
       
   100     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Allowance for loans losses and allowance for
lending related commitments       The allowance for loans losses, shown as a valuation allowance to loans, and the allowance for lending related commitments
are referred to as the Company s allowance for credit exposure. The accounting policy for the determination of the adequacy of the allowances has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous
complex and subjective estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.      The allowance for loans losses is maintained to
absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date based on our judgment. The allowance determination methodology is designed to provide procedural discipline in assessing the appropriateness of the allowance. Credit losses
are charged against the allowance. Recoveries are added to the allowance.      The methodology for determining the allowance for lending related commitments
considers the same factors as the reserve for loan losses, as well as an estimate of the probability of drawdown.       Premises and equipment
      Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement. For owned and capitalized assets,
estimated useful lives range from 2 to 40 years. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized to operating expense over their identified useful lives.       Software       The Company capitalizes costs relating to acquired
software and internal-use software development projects that provide new or significantly improved functionality. We capitalize projects that are expected to result in longer term operational benefits, such as replacement systems or new applications
that result in significantly increased operational efficiencies or functionality. All other costs incurred in connection with an internal-use software project are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software is recorded in other assets.         
     Identified intangible assets and goodwill       Identified intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized in a
pattern consistent with the assets  identifiable cash flows or using a straight-line method over their remaining estimated benefit periods if the pattern of cash flows is not estimable. Intangible assets with estimable lives are reviewed for
possible impairment when events or changed circumstances may affect the underlying basis of the asset. Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are assessed at least annually for impairment. The accounting policy for
valuing and impairment testing of identified intangible assets and goodwill has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates.       Fee revenue       We record security servicing fees, asset and wealth
management fees, foreign exchange and other trading activities, treasury services, financing-related fees, distribution and servicing, and other revenue when the services are provided and earned based on contractual terms, when amounts are
determined and collectibility is reasonably assured.      Additionally, we recognize revenue from non-refundable, up-front implementation fees under
outsourcing contracts using a straight-line method, commencing in the period the ongoing services are performed through the expected term of the contractual relationship. Incremental direct set-up costs of implementation, up to the related
implementation fee or minimum fee revenue amount, are deferred and amortized over the same period that the related implementation fees are recognized. If a client terminates an outsourcing contract prematurely, the unamortized deferred incremental
direct set-up costs and the unamortized deferred up-front implementation fees related to that contract are recognized in the period the contract is terminated. Performance fees are recognized in the period in which the performance fees are earned
and become determinable. Performance fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the applicable portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance. For hedge fund investments, an investment management
performance fee is calculated as a percentage of the applicable portfolio s positive returns. When a portfolio underperforms its benchmark or fails to generate positive performance in the instance of a hedge fund investment, subsequent  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     101   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 years  performance must generally exceed this shortfall prior to fees being earned. Amounts billable in subsequent years and which are subject to a
clawback if performance thresholds in those years are not met are not recognized since the fees are potentially uncollectible. These fees are recognized when it is determined that they will be collected. When a multi-year performance contract
provides that fees earned are billed ratably over the performance period, only the portion of the fees earned that are non-refundable are recognized.       Net interest revenue       Revenue on interest-earning assets and expense on interest-bearing liabilities is recognized based on the effective
yield of the related financial instrument.       Foreign currency translation       Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Transaction gains and losses are included in the income statement. Translation
gains and losses on investments in foreign entities with functional currencies that are not the U.S. dollar are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive results. Revenue and expense accounts are translated monthly
at an average monthly exchange rate.       Pension       The
measurement date for the Company s pension plans is Dec. 31. Plan assets are determined based on fair value generally representing observable market prices. The projected benefit obligation is determined based on the present value of projected
benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on the yield of high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace. The net periodic pension expense or credit includes service costs, interest costs based
on an assumed discount rate, an expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of prior years  actuarial gains and losses.      Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments, gains or losses related to changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from the
assumed rate of return, changes in the discount rate or other assumptions. To the extent an actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected   
   
 benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, the excess is recognized over the future service periods of active employees.      The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on the fair value of plan assets adjusted for the difference between expected
returns and actual performance of plan assets. The difference between actual experience and expected returns on plan assets is included as an adjustment in the market-related value over a five-year period.      The Company s accounting policy regarding pensions has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it is regarded to be critical to the
presentation of our financial statements since it requires management to make numerous complex and subjective assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.       Severance       The Company provides separation benefits through The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Separation Plan,
The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan or the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program to eligible employees separated or displaced from their jobs for business reasons not related to individual performance. Basic separation
benefits are based on the employee s years of continuous benefited service. Separation expense is recorded when management commits to an action that will result in separation and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
      Income Taxes       We record current tax liabilities or
assets through charges or credits to the current tax provision for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. A tax position that fails to meet a
more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets,  

102     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as income tax expense.       Derivative financial instruments       Derivative contracts, such as
futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading activities are recorded at fair value. Gains and losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities in fee
and other revenue. Unrealized gains and losses are reported on a gross basis in trading account assets and trading liabilities, after taking into consideration master netting agreements.      We enter into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes primarily as part of our asset/liability management ( ALM ) process. These derivatives are designated as fair value and cash
flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities when we enter into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses associated with fair value hedges are recorded in income as well as any change in the value of the related hedged item. Gains and losses on
cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income.      We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well
as our risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet.      We formally assess, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective and
whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. We evaluate ineffectiveness in terms of amounts that could impact a hedge s ability to qualify for hedge accounting and the risk that the hedge could result in
more than a de minimus amount of ineffectiveness. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of our hedges is assessed to determine if we can expect the hedge to be highly effective over the life of the transaction and to
determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis.      Recognizing that changes in the value of derivatives used for hedging or the value
of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, we have processes in place that are designed to identify and evaluate   
   
 such changes when they occur. Quarterly, we perform a quantitative effectiveness assessment and record any ineffectiveness in current earnings.   
  We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when we determine that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative expires, is sold, or management
discontinues the derivative s hedge designation. Subsequent gains and losses on these derivatives are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities. For fair value hedges, the accumulated gain or loss on the hedged item is amortized
on a yield basis over the remaining life of the hedged item. Accumulated gains and losses, net of tax effect, from cash flow hedges are reclassified from Other comprehensive income and recognized in current earnings in Other revenue upon receipt of
the hedged cash flow.      The accounting policy for the determination of the fair value of derivative financial instruments has been identified as a
 critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous assumptions based on the available market data.       Statement of cash flows
      We have defined cash and cash equivalents as cash and due from banks and cash on deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks. Cash flows
from hedging activities are classified in the same category as the items hedged.       Stock options       We adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) ( SFAS 123(R) ),  Share-Based Payment , which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation on Jan. 1, 2006, using the  modified prospective  method. Under this method, compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date: (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123(R) for all share-based
payments granted after the effective date; and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123(R) that remain unvested on the effective date.      Certain of our stock compensation grants vest when the employee retires. SFAS 123(R) requires the completion of expensing of new grants with this feature by the first
date the employee is eligible to retire. For grants prior to Jan. 1, 2006, we will continue to expense them over their stated vesting  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     103   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 period. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) increased pre-tax expense by $32 million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007, respectively.       2. Accounting changes and new accounting pronouncements        SFAS
No. 157 Fair Value Measurements       SFAS No. 157 ( SFAS 157 ),  Fair Value Measurements  defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with GAAP, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. Under this framework, a three-level hierarchy has been established based on the transparency of the inputs
to the valuation of an asset or liability. SFAS 157 clarifies that fair value is the amount that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS 157 nullifies the consensus
reached in EITF Issue No. 02-3 prohibiting the recognition of day one gain or loss on derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair value under SFAS 133 as modified by SFAS 155) where we cannot verify all of the significant
model inputs to observable market data and verify the model to market transactions. However, SFAS 157 requires that a fair value measurement technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a particular valuation technique (such as a pricing
model) and/or the risks inherent in the inputs to the model if market participants would also include such an adjustment. SFAS 157 requires us to consider the effect of our own credit standing in determining the fair value of our liabilities. In
addition, SFAS 157 prohibits the recognition of  block discounts  for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market. The requirements of SFAS 157 are
applied prospectively, except for changes in fair value measurements that resulted from the initial application of SFAS 157 to existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue No. 02-3, existing hybrid instruments measured at
fair value, and block discounts, which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption.      We adopted SFAS 157 as of
Jan. 1, 2008. As a result of maximizing observable inputs as required by SFAS 157, we began to reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions. The
cumulative effect of making this derivative   
   
 valuation adjustment decreased foreign exchange and other trading revenue by $46 million in 2008. Approximately 1% of our assets and liabilities measured at
fair value are in the lowest tier of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       SFAS No. 159 Fair
Value Option       SFAS No. 159 ( SFAS 159 ),  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  provides
companies with an irrevocable option to elect fair value as the measurement basis for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments which are not subject to fair value under other
accounting standards. There was a one-time election available to apply this standard to existing financial instruments as of Jan. 1, 2008; otherwise, the fair value option will be available for financial instruments on their initial transaction
date. The first re-measurement of existing financial instruments for which the option was elected was recorded as an adjustment to retained earnings; changes in the fair value subsequent to initial adoption were recorded in earnings.      We adopted SFAS 159 along with SFAS 157 on Jan. 1, 2008. We elected the fair value option for $390 million of existing loans and unfunded loan commitments where the
related credit risks are primarily managed utilizing other financial instruments which are fair valued in earnings. This election better aligns the accounting and reflects our risk management practices. As a result of adopting the fair value option
on these loans and commitments, we recorded a charge to retained earnings as of Jan. 1, 2008, of $36 million, after tax. See Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10 Split-Dollar Life Insurance       In September 2006, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task
Force (EITF) 06-4,  Postretirement Benefits Associated with Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements,  and in March 2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-10,  Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance
Arrangements.  EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10 address endorsement and collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangements, respectively, that provide a benefit to an employee that extends to postretirement periods. An endorsement
split-dollar policy is owned and  

104     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 controlled by the employer. However, a collateral assignment policy is owned and controlled by the employee. Both policy arrangements provide that the
employer and an employee split the insurance policy s cash surrender value and/or death benefits.      These EITFs require that the deferred compensation
or postretirement benefit aspects of the split-dollar life insurance arrangements be recognized as a liability by the employer because the obligation is not effectively settled by the purchase of a life insurance policy. The liability for future
benefits is recognized based on the substantive agreement with the employee, which may be either to provide a future death benefit or to pay for the future cost of the life insurance.      Both EITFs were effective Jan. 1, 2008. The adoption of these EITFs required us to record a net liability, in accordance with SFAS 106, of $21 million with an offsetting debit to retained earnings of $21 million.
      FSP No. FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39       In April 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FIN 39-1 ( FSP 39-1 )  Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39.  FSP 39-1 permits offsetting of fair value amounts recognized for the
right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangements, and
amends FIN No. 39 to replace the terms  conditional contracts  and  exchange contracts  with the term  derivative instruments,  as defined in SFAS 133. We adopted this FSP on Jan. 1, 2008. Beginning Jan. 1,
2008, we revised our accounting policy to net cash collateral received and cash collateral paid for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangements. The impact of adopting FSP 39-1 resulted in a
reduction of trading account assets and trading account liabilities of $817 million and $1.8 billion, respectively, at Dec. 31, 2008.       FSP SFAS 133-1
and FIN 45-4 Disclosures about Derivatives and Certain Guarantees       In September 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. SFAS 133-1 and FIN
45-4,  Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161.  This

FSP amends SFAS No. 133 to require disclosures by sellers of credit derivatives, including credit derivatives embedded in a hybrid instrument. This FSP
also amends FIN No. 45 to require an additional disclosure about the current status of the payment/performance risk of a guarantee. Further, this FSP clarifies the FASB s intent about the effective date of SFAS No. 161. These
disclosures were effective Dec. 31, 2008 and are included in Note 26 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN
46(R)-8 Transfer of financial assets and interests in VIEs       In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8
(FSP 140-4),  Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities . FSP 140-4 amends FASB Statement No. 140 to require public entities to provide additional
disclosures about transfers of financial assets. It also amends FASB Interpretation No. 46 to require public enterprises, including sponsors that have a variable interest in a variable interest entity, to provide additional disclosures about
their involvement with variable interest entities.      Additionally, this FSP requires certain disclosures to be provided by a public enterprise that is
(a) a sponsor of a qualifying special purpose entity ( QSPE ) that holds a variable interest in the QSPE but was not the transferor (non-transferor) of financial assets to the QSPE; and (b) a servicer of a QSPE that holds a
significant interest in the QSPE but was not the transferor (non-transferor) of financial assets to the QSPE. These disclosures were effective Dec. 31, 2008 and are included in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       EITF 99-20-1 Other-than-temporary impairment       In January 2009,
the FASB ratified EITF 99-20-1,  Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue 99-20.  EITF 99-20-1 amends the impairment guidance in EITF 99-20 to achieve more consistent determination of whether an other-than-temporary impairment
has occurred. EITF 99-20-1 was effective Dec. 31, 2008. The change in the impairment guidance with the issuance of FSP EITF 99-20-1 resulted in a reduction in impairment charges of approximately $115 million.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     105   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Other       Certain other prior year information has been reclassified to conform its presentation to the 2008 financial statements.       3. Acquisitions and dispositions       We frequently structure our acquisitions
with both an initial payment and later contingent payments tied to post-closing revenue or income growth. We record the fair value of contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable.
Contingent payments totaled $211 million in 2008, including $5 million in stock.      At Dec. 31, 2008, we are potentially obligated to pay additional
consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures, could range from approximately $63 million to $221 million over the next 9 years. None of the potential contingent additional
consideration was recorded as goodwill at Dec. 31, 2008.       Acquisitions in 2008       In January 2008, we acquired ARX Capital Management ( ARX ). Goodwill related to this acquisition is tax-deductible and was $147 million. Intangible assets (customer contracts) related to this transaction,
with a life of 12 years, totaled $25 million. ARX is a leading independent asset management business, headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. ARX specializes in Brazilian multi-strategy, long/short and long only investment strategies and had more
than $2.8 billion in AUM. This transaction enables us to offer clients access to expanding investment opportunities and expertise in the Brazilian marketplace. The impact of this acquisition was not material to earnings per share.      On Dec. 31, 2008, we acquired the Australian (Ankura Capital) and U.K. (Blackfrairs Asset Management) businesses from our Asset Management joint venture with WestLB.
Headquartered in Sydney, Australia, Ankura Capital manages approximately AUS $1 billion, while Blackfriars Asset Management, which is headquartered in London, England, has assets under management of $2.3 billion. Goodwill related to this transaction
is tax deductible and was $19 million. The impact of this acquisition is not expected to be material to earnings per share.         
     Dispositions in 2008       In February 2008, we sold our B-Trade and G-Trade execution businesses to BNY ConvergEx Group. These businesses were sold at book value. The execution businesses
contributed approximately $215 million of revenue and $45 million of pre-tax income in 2007.      On March 31, 2008, we sold a portion of the Estabrook
Capital Management business which reduced our AUM by $2.4 billion. We retained approximately 30% of the AUM which are primarily managed by the Wealth Management segment. The impact of this disposition was not material to our results of operations.
     In June 2008, we sold M1BB, based in Los Angeles, California. The sale reduced loan and deposit levels by $1.1 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively.
There was no gain or loss recorded on this transaction. This transaction reflects our focus on reducing non-core activities. Pre-tax income for M1BB was $50 million for full year 2007 and was primarily comprised of net interest revenue.   
  On Oct. 1, 2008, we sold the assets of Gannett Welsh   Kotler, an investment management subsidiary with approximately $8 billion in AUM. The impact of this
disposition was not material to our results of operations.       Acquisitions and dispositions in 2007        Merger with Mellon Financial Corporation       On July 1, 2007, The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) both merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, (the  Company ), with the Company being
the surviving entity. For accounting and financial reporting purposes, the merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon Financial. Financial results for periods subsequent to July 1, 2007 reflect the Company s results. Financial
results prior to July 1, 2007 reflect legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only. In the transaction, each share of Mellon Financial $0.50 par value common stock was converted into one share of the Company s $0.01 par value common
stock and each share of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. $7.50 par value common stock was converted into 0.9434 shares of the Company s $0.01 par value common stock.   
       
   106     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     At June 30, 2007, Mellon Financial had
total assets of $43 billion, total common shares outstanding of 418,330,448 and had 17,400 employees. Mellon Financial s total revenue and net income from continuing operations for the first six months of 2007 were $2.9 billion and $524
million, respectively.      The merger with Mellon Financial added approximately $33 billion of interest-earning assets, including $18 billion of securities,
$7 billion of loans and $6 billion of other money market investments. The merger also provided the following funding sources: $21 billion of interest-bearing deposits, $8 billion of noninterest-bearing deposits, $4 billion of long-term debt and $1
billion of federal funds purchased. Goodwill and intangibles related to the merger with Mellon Financial were approximately $16 billion.       Purchase price
and goodwill Mellon Financial       The purchase price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed using their fair values at the
merger date. The computation of the purchase price and the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Mellon Financial, based on their respective fair values at July 1, 2007, and the resulting amount of goodwill are presented in the
following table. Changes to the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets, since the merger date, reflect additional information obtained about the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.         

(dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts) (a)   
     
  July 1, 2007  

Purchase price of Mellon Financial:   

Mellon Financial net common shares outstanding   

418,330,448  

Exchange ratio   

1.00  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shares   

418,330,448  

Average price per share   
     
  $  
  39.86  

Purchase price of Mellon Financial shares   

$  
  16,675  

Estimated fair value of outstanding Mellon Financial stock options   

302  

Total purchase price   

$  
  16,977  

Net Mellon Financial assets acquired:   

Mellon Financial shareholders  equity   

$  
  5,194  

Mellon Financial goodwill and intangibles   

(2,925  
  )   
 
    Unrecognized compensation on unvested stock options and restricted stock   

126  

Estimated adjustments to reflect assets at fair value:   

Loans and leases, net   

(199  
  )   
 
    Premises and equipment   

15  

Identified intangibles   

5,010  

Other assets   

509  

Estimated adjustments to reflect liabilities at fair value:   

Deposits   

(4  
  )   
 
    Long-term debt   

(18  
  )   
 
    Other liabilities   

(156  
  )   
 
    Deferred taxes:   

Related to new intangibles carrying value   

(1,705  
  )  

Related to stock options   

(40  
  )  

Related to all other adjustments   

208  

Total deferred tax adjustments   

(1,537  
  )   
 
    Estimated exit and transactions costs   

(203  
  )   

Total net assets acquired and adjustment to fair value   

5,812  

Goodwill   

$  
  11,165  

(a)   
   Goodwill resulting from the merger reflects adjustments of the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets acquired through Sept. 30, 2008.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     107   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 Components of the fair value of acquired, identifiable intangible assets related to the acquisition of Mellon Financial as of July 1, 2007 are as
follows:       

(in millions)   
      
   Fair value   (a)     
      
   Estimated lives or contract terms    
 
    Amortizing intangibles:   

Asset and Wealth Management customer relationships   
      
  $  
  1,815  
      
  14 years   
 
    Customer contracts in Institutional services   

711  
      
  24 years   
 
    Core deposits   

106  
      
  5 years   
 
    Non-compete agreements   

21  
      
  6 years   
 
    Indefinite-lived intangibles:   

Mutual funds advisory contracts   

1,357  
      
  N/A   
 
    Trade names   

1,000  
      
  N/A   

Total   
      
  $  
  5,010  

(a)   
   Certain amounts have been revised subsequent to July 1, 2007.         The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the fair value of Mellon Financial s net assets as of July 1, 2007.       
     Other 2007 acquisitions and dispositions       In December 2007, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in ABN AMRO Mellon Global Securities Services B.V. ( ABN AMRO Mellon ). ABN AMRO Mellon, a 50-50 joint venture company established
by Mellon Bank, N.A. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. in 2003 to provide global custody and related services to institutions outside North America, is now known as BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. and is included in the Asset Servicing segment. The acquisition
added $1.0 billion of loans   
   
 (overdrafts that have been repaid), $3.5 billion of money market assets and $4.5 billion of deposits in 2007.      In January 2007, certain clearing and custody relationships rights were acquired by our Pershing subsidiary. The transaction involved 46 organizations, comprised of
30 registered investment advisor firms and 16 introducing broker-dealer firms.      In March 2007, we sold our 49% stake in joint venture BNY
Mortgage Co. to EverBank Financial Corp. The transaction is consistent with our strategy to focus on asset management and securities servicing.      In June
2007, we sold our 30% equity investment in RBS International Securities Services (Holdings) Limited to BNP Paribas Securities Services.       Acquisitions
and dispositions in 2006       During 2006, five businesses were acquired for a total cost of $2.6 billion. Goodwill and the tax-deductible portion of
goodwill related to 2006 acquisitions was $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively.       Purchase of Acquired Corporate Trust Business and sale of Retail
Business       On Oct. 1, 2006, we sold our Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.3 billion. JPMorgan Chase sold
its corporate trust business to us for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.15 billion. The difference between premiums resulted in a net cash payment of $150 million. We recorded an after-tax gain of $1.2 billion on the sale of the Retail
Business. For further details, see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      On Oct. 2, 2006, we completed the transaction resulting in the
formation of BNY ConvergEx Group. BNY ConvergEx Group brought together BNY Securities Group s trade execution, commission management, independent research and transition management business with Eze Castle Software, a leading provider of trade
order management and related investment technologies.      The Company, as successor to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and GTCR Golder Rauner, LLC each
hold a 33.8% stake in BNY ConvergEx Group, with the balance held by Eze Castle Software s investors and BNY CoverEx Group s management team.   
       
   108     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Pro forma condensed combined financial
information       On a pro forma basis, if the merger with Mellon Financial and the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business had occurred on
Jan. 1, 2006, the transactions would have had the following impact:       
    The pro forma results are based on adding the pre-tax historical results of Mellon Financial and the Acquired
Corporate Trust Business to our results and primarily adjusting for amortization of intangibles created in the transaction and taxes. The pro forma data does not include adjustments to reflect our operating costs or expected differences in the way
funds generated by the Acquired Corporate Trust Business are invested. The pro forma data is intended for informational purposes and is not indicative of the future results of operations.       4. Discontinued operations       On Oct. 1, 2006, we acquired JPMorgan Chase s
corporate trust business and JPMorgan Chase acquired our Retail Business. We adopted discontinued operations accounting for our Retail Business. The results from continuing operations exclude the results of our Retail Business and include the
operations of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business only after Oct. 1, 2006.         
    In accordance with GAAP, the results for the Retail Business are
reported separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Net interest revenue in 2006 was computed by allocating investment securities and federal funds sold and related interest income to discontinued operations to match the amount
and duration of the assets sold with the amount and duration of the liabilities sold. In addition, certain residual activity from businesses that Mellon Financial had reported as discontinued operations prior to the merger are also included as
discontinued operations after July 2007.      There were no assets and liabilities of discontinued operations at Dec. 31, 2008 and Dec. 31, 2007.   
  Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is as follows:       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Including the $2.2 billion pre-tax gain on the sale of the Retail Business.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     109   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  5. Goodwill and Intangible assets        Goodwill       The level of goodwill decreased in 2008 due to the effect of foreign exchange translation on non-U.S. dollar denominated goodwill and the sale of M1BB,

partially offset by the acquisition of ARX Capital Management.      The table below provides a breakdown of goodwill by business segment. Goodwill impairment testing is performed annually at the business segment level. No impairment losses were recorded in 2008 and 2007.   

(a)   
   Transfer reflects the movements of M1BB and MUNB to the Other segment from the Wealth Management segment.      

(b)   
   Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.          Intangible assets            Intangible assets not subject to amortization
are tested annually for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired. The decrease in intangible assets in 2008 compared with 2007 resulted from intangible amortization, foreign exchange translation on non-U.S.
dollar denominated intangible assets and the sale of M1BB, partially offset by the acquisition of         
    ARX Capital Management. Intangible amortization expense was $482
million, $319 million and $76 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No impairment losses were recorded on intangible assets in 2008 or 2007.      The
table below provides a breakdown of intangible assets by business segment.   

(a)   
   Other changes in intangible assets primarily reflect reclassifications.            

   110     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Intangible assets not subject to amortization have an indefinite life.             Estimated annual amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:       
     6. Securities       The
following table sets forth the amortized cost and the fair values of securities at the end of the last two years.       
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     111   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     At Dec. 31, 2008, almost all of the unrealized
losses are attributable to wider credit spreads reflecting market illiquidity. We have the ability and intent to hold these securities until their value recovers or until maturity. We believe that all of our unrealized losses are temporary in
nature. At Dec. 31, 2008, we believe that it is probable that we will collect all contractually due principal and interest on these securities.         
     Temporarily impaired securities       The following tables show the aggregate related fair value of investments with a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in
a continuous unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months.   
     
        The
amortized cost and fair values of securities at Dec. 31, 2008, by contractual maturity, are as follows:       
           
   112     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 Realized gross gains on the sale of securities available-for-sale were $5 million in 2008 and $29 million in 2007. There were $1.6 billion of recognized
gross losses in 2008 and $230 million of recognized gross losses in 2007. In 2008, we recorded a $1.6 billion (pre-tax) net loss primarily for other than temporary impairment, comprised of the following:       
        Securities with residential mortgage loans as underlying collateral are evaluated regularly for other- than-temporary impairment based on our projections of the collateral s expected credit losses. Specifically, for each non-agency
residential mortgage-backed security, we compare the remaining credit enhancement that protects the individual security from losses against the projected total amount of credit losses expected to come from the underlying mortgage collateral, in
order to determine whether such credit losses might directly impact the relevant security and, if so, whether an OTTI has occurred. Furthermore, should the expected performance of the security s underlying collateral deteriorate, additional
impairments may be recorded against the security in future periods, as necessary.      At Dec. 31, 2008, assets amounting to $39.6 billion were pledged
primarily for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The significant components of pledged assets were as follows: $23.2 billion of securities, $6.3 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks, $5.6 billion of other
short-term investments U.S. government-backed commercial paper and $4.5 billion of loans. Included in these pledged assets was securities available-for-sale of $574 million which were pledged as collateral for actual borrowings. The lenders in
these borrowings   
   
 have the right to repledge or sell these securities. We obtain securities under resale, securities borrowed and custody agreements on terms which permit us
to repledge or resell the securities to others. As of Dec. 31, 2008, the market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was $22.8 billion. We routinely repledge or lend these securities to third parties. As of Dec. 31, 2008,
the market value of collateral repledged and sold was $545 million.       7. Loans       For details of our loan distribution and industry concentrations of credit risk at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007, see the  Loans by product  table on page 56, which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      In the ordinary course of business, we and our banking subsidiaries have made loans at prevailing interest rates and
terms to our directors and executive officers and to entities in which certain of our directors have an ownership interest or direct or indirect subsidiaries of such entities. The aggregate amount of these loans was $12 million, $35 million, and
$211 million at Dec. 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. These loans are primarily extensions of credit under revolving lines of credit established for such entities.      The composition of our loan portfolio is shown in the following table:       

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     113   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     Transactions in the allowance for credit losses
are summarized as follows:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.            
    The table below sets forth information about our nonperforming assets and impaired loans.       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under the
accounting standard related to impaired loans.      

(c)   
   The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.          

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.          

Lost interest   

Dec. 31,   
 
   (in millions)   
      
   2008   
      
  2007  
      
  2006  (a)    
 
    Amount by which interest income recognized on nonperforming loans exceeded reversals:   

Total   
      
   $   
   -   
      
  $  
  1  
      
  $  
  1   
 
    Foreign   

-   

-  

-   
 
    Amount by which interest income would have increased if nonperforming loans at year-end had been performing for the entire
year:   

Total   
      
   $   
   12   
      
  $  
  6  
      
  $  
  1   
 
    Foreign   

-   

2  

-   

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      
       
   114     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     At Dec. 31, 2008, undrawn commitments to
borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced rate were not material.      We use the discounted cash flow method as the primary method for
valuing impaired loans.       8. Other assets        

(a)   
   Includes Federal Reserve Bank stock of $342 million and $366 million, respectively, at cost.          9. Deposits       The aggregate amount of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or greater was approximately $57.1 billion at
Dec. 31, 2008 and $43.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2007. At Dec. 31, 2008, the scheduled maturities of all time deposits for the years 2009 through 2013 and 2014 and thereafter are as follows: $56.6 billion; $411 million; $31 million; $13 million; $0
million; and $74 million, respectively.       10. Other fee revenue       In 2008, other fee revenue included $86 million of asset related gains, and $34 million of expense reimbursement from joint ventures. Asset related gains in 2008 include the $42 million gain associated with the initial public offering by
VISA.      In 2007, other fee revenue included $58 million of expense reimbursements from joint ventures, $41 million of net economic value payments related to
the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, and a $28 million settlement received for early termination of a contract with a clearing business.         
    In 2006, other fee revenue included a pre-tax gain of $35
million related to the conversion of our New York Stock Exchange seats into cash and shares of NYSE Group, Inc. common stock, some of which were sold.      Other fee revenue also includes equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries of $32 million, $56 million and $47 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.       11. Net interest revenue        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     115   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      12. Noninterest expense       The following table provides a breakdown of total noninterest expense.       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         In 2008, we recorded support agreement charges of $894 million (pre-tax), or $0.46 per share.
     In response to market events in 2008, we voluntarily provided support to clients invested in money market mutual funds, cash sweep funds and similar
collective funds, managed by our affiliates, impacted by the Lehman bankruptcy. The support agreements related to:       

five commingled cash funds used primarily for overnight custody cash sweeps;      

the BNY Mellon Institutional Cash Reserve Fund used for the reinvestment of cash collateral within our securities lending business; and

four Dreyfus money market funds.         These support
agreements are designed to enable these funds with Lehman holdings to continue to operate at a stable share price of $1.00. Support agreement charges in 2008 primarily reflect our estimate of the potential liability of Lehman at a value of 9.75% at
Dec. 31, 2008.         
    Additionally, the following support agreements were also executed in 2008:       

An agreement covering SIV exposures in a Sterling-denominated NAV fund in the Asset Management segment;      

An agreement for a commingled short-term NAV fund covering securities related to Whistle Jacket Capital/White Pine Financial, LLC in the Asset Servicing segment;
and      

Agreements providing support to a collective investment pool in the Asset Management segment.          13. Restructuring charge       In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company announced
that due to weakness in the global economy, it would reduce its workforce by approximately 4%, or 1,800 positions. The goals of this workforce reduction are to reduce expense growth and further improve the efficiency of the organization.   
  As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $181 million, or $0.09 per common share, in accordance with SFAS
No. 146. This pronouncement permits charges recorded under other accounting standards to be presented along with those recorded under SFAS 146 in a separate line, restructuring charge, on the Consolidated Statement of Income, provided those
costs are incurred in connection with a restructuring event. The charge included:       

$166 million related to employee severance;      

$9 million for stock-based incentive acceleration;      

$5 million for other compensation costs; and      

$1 million for other non-personnel expenses, directly related to the workforce reduction.         The restructuring charge for 2008 is presented below by business segment. The charge was recorded in the Other segment as this restructuring was a corporate initiative
and not directly related to the operating performance of these segments in 2008.       

Restructuring charge by segment   

(in millions)   
      
   2008    
 
    Asset management   
      
   $   
   64    
 
    Asset servicing   

34    
 
    Issuer services   

15    
 
    Wealth management   

13    
 
    Treasury services   

6    
 
    Clearing services   

6    
 
    Other (including shared services)   

43    
 
    Total restructuring charge   
      
   $   
   181    

116     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      14. Income taxes        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         The components of income before taxes are as follows:       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         The components of our net deferred tax liability included in accrued taxes and other expenses are
as follows:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.            
    We have federal net operating loss carryovers of $539 million
(for which we have recorded a $189 million tax benefit) related to a separate filing of a group of certain leasing subsidiaries which begin to expire in 2023. We have not recorded a valuation allowance because we expect to realize our deferred tax
assets including these carryovers.      As of Dec. 31, 2008, we had approximately $1.428 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have
been permanently reinvested abroad and for which no provision has been recorded for income tax that would occur if repatriated. It is not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these
earnings.      The statutory federal income tax rate is reconciled to our effective income tax rate below:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.          
    Our total tax reserves as of Dec. 31, 2008 were $189 million compared with $977 million at Dec. 31, 2007. The
decrease is primarily due to the settlement of the SILO/LILO issues. If these tax reserves were unnecessary, $189 million would affect the effective tax rate in future periods. We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to
income taxes in income tax expense. Included in the balance  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     117   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 sheet at Dec. 31, 2008 is accrued interest, where applicable, of $45 million. The additional tax expense related to interest for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008
was $248 million compared with $77 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007.      Our federal consolidated income tax returns are closed to examination through
2002. Our New York State and New York City return examinations have been completed through 1996. Our United Kingdom income tax returns are closed through 2002.       15. Extraordinary (loss)   consolidation of commercial paper conduits       Since 2000, we have sold and distributed securities for Old
Slip Funding, LLC ( Old Slip ), an asset- backed commercial paper securitization program. On Dec. 30, 2008, we voluntarily called the first loss notes of Old Slip, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of Old
Slip (approximately $125 million in assets). The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary loss (non-cash accounting charge) of $26 million, net of a tax benefit of $19 million. The extraordinary loss represents the current
mark-to-market discount from par associated with spread-widening for the assets in Old Slip. The   
   
 diluted earnings per common share impact of the extra-ordinary loss was $0.02 per common share.      The fair value of Old Slip s asset-backed securities portfolio totaled approximately $78 million at Dec. 31, 2008. The credit rating on Old Slip s
mortgage-backed securities at Dec. 31, 2008 was 66% AAA, 8% AA and 26% other.      On Dec. 31, 2007, we called the first loss notes of Three Rivers Funding
Corporation ( TRFC ), making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of TRFC. The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary loss (non-cash accounting charge) of $180 million, net of a tax benefit of
$122 million.      The extraordinary loss represents the mark to market discount from par at Dec. 31, 2007, associated with spread widening for the assets in
TRFC. The diluted earnings per common share impact of the extraordinary loss was $0.19 per common share.      In addition to the extraordinary loss, the size
of the Dec. 31, 2007 balance sheet increased by the full amount of third party commercial paper funding previously issued by TRFC of approximately $4.0 billion.   
         16. Long-term debt        

(a)   
   Fixed rate.              The aggregate amounts of notes and debentures
that mature during the five years 2009 through 2013 for BNY Mellon are as follows: $1.23 billion, $1.85 billion, $1.28 billion, $2.85 billion and $1.51 billion. At Dec. 31, 2008, subordinated debt aggregating $1.65 billion was redeemable at our
option as follows: $644 million in 2009; $243 million in 2010; and $759 million after 2010.         
     Junior subordinated debentures       Wholly owned subsidiaries of BNY Mellon (the  Trusts ) have issued cumulative Company-Obligated Mandatory Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary
Trust Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures ( Trust Preferred Securities ). The sole assets of each trust are our junior subordinated   
       
   118     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 deferrable interest debentures of BNY Mellon whose maturities and interest rates match the Trust Preferred Securities. Our obligations under the agreements
that relate to the Trust Preferred Securities, the Trusts and the debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by us of the Trusts  obligations under the Trust Preferred Securities. The assets for Mellon Capital IV are currently
(i) our remarketable 6.044%   
   
 junior subordinated notes due 2043, and (ii) interests in stock purchase contracts between Mellon Capital IV and us. On the  stock purchase
date , as defined in the prospectus supplement for the Trust Preferred Securities of Mellon Capital IV, the sole assets of the trust will be shares of a series of our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock.   
 
      The following table sets forth a summary of the Trust Preferred Securities issued by the Trusts
as of Dec. 31, 2008:       

(a)   
   Junior subordinated debentures and interest in stock purchase contracts for Mellon Capital IV.      

(b)   
   Call price decreases ratably to par in the year 2016.      
         We have the option to shorten the maturity of BNY Capital IV to 2013 or extend the maturity to 2047. The BNY Capital Preferred Trust Securities have been converted to floating rate via interest rate swaps.   
   17. Securitizations and variable interest entities       In 2000, we purchased
Dreyfus Institutional Reserves Money Fund shares and sold the right to receive the principal value of the shares in 2021 in a securitization transaction and retained the rights to receive the on-going dividends from the shares. In 2003, the Company
securitized quarterly variable rate municipal bonds, which are Aa3/AAA insured bonds issued by borrowers rated no lower than A2/A+ by Moody s Investor Services and Standard   Poors. No gain or loss was recognized on these transactions.
     The Company has not securitized any assets during 2008 and 2007. The Company s retained interests, which are recorded as available-for-sale
securities in these securitizations at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007, are approximately $234 million and $248 million, respectively, which represents our maximum exposure to the securitizations.       Variable Interest Entities       At Dec. 31, 2008, the Company had no
conduits. FIN 46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46(R) ) applies to certain entities in which   
   
 equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its
activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties. The primary beneficiary of a Variable Interest Entity ( VIE ) is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity s expected losses, receives a majority
of its expected residual returns or both, as a result of holding variable interests. The Company is required to consolidate entities for which it is the primary beneficiary.      The Company s VIEs generally include retail, institutional and alternative investment funds offered to its retail and institutional customers. The Company may provide start-up capital in its new funds and also
earns fund management fees. Performance fees are also earned on certain funds. The Company is not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to its VIEs. In addition, we provide trust and custody services for a fee to entities
sponsored by other corporations in which we have no other variable interest.      Primary beneficiary calculations are prepared in accordance with FIN 46(R).
The Company evaluates how the expected losses, if incurred as an actual loss, would be absorbed by the parties associated with each VIE and how the expected residual returns of the VIE, if realized as an actual return, would benefit the parties
involved with the VIE. This evaluation includes estimates of ranges and probabilities of   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     119   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 losses and returns from the funds. The calculated expected gains and expected losses are allocated to the variable interests, which are generally the
fund s investors and which may include the Company.      The start up capital invested in our Asset Management VIEs as of Dec. 31, 2008, has been included
in our financial statements as shown below:       
    During the second half of 2008, the Company voluntarily provided limited credit support to certain money market,
collective, commingled and separate account funds (the  Funds ). Entering into such support agreements represents an event under FIN 46(R), and its interpretations.      In analyzing the Funds for which credit support was provided, it was determined that interest rate risk and credit risk are the two main risks that the funds are designed to create and pass through to their investors.
Accordingly, interest rate and credit risk were analyzed to determine if the Company was the primary beneficiary of each of the Funds.      Credit risk
variability quantification includes any potential future credit risk in a Fund and is evaluated using credit ratings and default rates. The full marks on any sensitive securities on watch are also included.      Interest rate variability quantification includes the expected Fund yield. Standard deviations are used along with the Fund s market value to quantify the interest
rate risk expected in the Fund.      The Company s analysis of the credit risk variability and interest rate risk variability associated with the
supported Funds resulted in the Company not being the primary beneficiary and therefore the Funds were not consolidated.      The table below shows the
financial statement items related to non-consolidated VIEs to which we have provided credit support agreements as of Dec. 31, 2008:       
       
    Certain funds have been created solely with securities that are subject to credit support agreements where we have agreed to absorb the majority of loss. Accordingly,
these funds have been consolidated into the Company and have affected the following financial statement items as of Dec. 31, 2008:       
    The maximum loss exposure shown above for the credit support agreements provided to the Company s VIE s
primarily reflects a complete loss on the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. securities for the Company s clients that accepted our offer of support. As of Dec. 31, 2008, the Company recorded $551 million in liabilities related to its VIEs for which
credit support agreements were provided and which is included in the $894 million loss recorded in other expense.       18. Shareholders  equity    
  The Company has 3.5 billion authorized shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share, 100 million authorized shares of preferred stock with a par
value of $0.01 per share, of which 3 million are authorized shares of Series B preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and a par value of $0.01 per share. At Dec. 31, 2008, 1,148,467,299 shares of common stock and
3,000,000 shares of Series B preferred stock were outstanding.      On Oct. 28, 2008, we issued Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B
($2.779 billion) and a warrant for common stock ($221 million), as described below, to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) Capital Purchase Program authorized under the Emergency Economic Stabilization
Act. The Series B preferred stock will pay cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per annum until the fifth anniversary of the date of the investment and thereafter at a rate of 9% per annum. Dividends will be payable quarterly in arrears on
March 20, June 20, Sept. 20 and Dec. 20 of each year. The Series B preferred stock can only be redeemed within the first three years with the proceeds of at least $750 million from one or more qualified equity offerings. After Dec.
20, 2011, the Series B preferred stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at any time, at our option, at a price equal to 100% of the issue price plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Redemption of the Series B preferred stock  

120     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 at any time will be subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Under ARRA, enacted Feb. 17, 2009, the U.S. Treasury, subject to consultation with
the appropriate Federal banking agency, is required to permit a TARP recipient to repay any assistance previously provided under TARP to such financial institution, without regard to whether the financial institution has replaced such funds from any
other source or to any waiting period. When such assistance is repaid, the U.S. Treasury is required to liquidate warrants associated with such assistance at the current market price. The Series B preferred stock qualifies as Tier I capital.
     Issuance of the Series B preferred shares places restrictions on our common stock dividend and repurchases of common stock. Prior to the earlier of
(i) the third anniversary of the closing date or (ii) the date on which the Series B preferred stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series B preferred stock to unaffiliated third parties, the consent
of the U.S. Treasury is required to:       

Pay any dividend on our common stock other than regular quarterly dividends of not more than our current quarterly dividend of $0.24 per share; or

Redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of common stock or other capital stock or other equity securities of any kind of the Company or any trust preferred
securities issued by the Company or any affiliate except in connection with (i) any benefit plan in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (ii) market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in
the ordinary course or; (iii) acquisitions by the Company as trustees or custodians.         In addition, until such time as the U.S.
Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity securities of the Company acquired pursuant to the Oct. 28, 2008 closing or exercise of the warrant described below, the Company must ensure that its compensation, bonus, incentive and other benefit plans,
arrangements and agreements (including so-called golden parachute, severance and employment agreements (collectively,  Benefit Plans ) with respect to its Senior Executive Officers), comply with Section 111(b) of the EESA as
implemented by any guidance and regulations issued and in effect on Oct. 28, 2008, as well as the ARRA legislation enacted in February 2009. ARRA has revised several of the provisions in the EESA with respect to executive compensation and has
enacted   
   
 additional compensation limitations on TARP recipients. The provisions include new limits on the ability of TARP recipients to pay or accrue bonuses,
retention awards, or incentive compensation to at least the 20 next most highly-compensated employees in addition to the Company s Senior Executive Officers, a prohibition on golden parachute payments on such Senior Executive Officers and the
next five most highly-compensated employees, a clawback of any bonus, retention or incentive awards paid to any Senior Executive Officer or any of the next 20 most highly-compensated employees based on materially inaccurate earnings, revenues, gains
or other criteria, a required policy restricting excessive or luxury expenditures, and a requirement that TARP recipients implement a non-binding  say-on-pay  shareholder vote on executive compensation.      In connection with the issuance of the Series B preferred stock, we issued a warrant to purchase 14,516,129 shares of our common stock to the U.S. Treasury. The warrant
has a 10-year term and an exercise price of $31.00 per share. The warrant is immediately exercisable, in whole or in part. Exercise must be on a cashless basis unless the Company agrees to a cash exercise. However, the U.S. Treasury has agreed that
it will not transfer or exercise the warrant for more than 50% of the shares covered until the earlier of (i) the date on which we receive aggregate gross proceeds of not less than $3 billion from one or more qualified equity offerings, and
(ii) Dec. 31, 2009. If the Company completes one or more qualified equity offerings on or prior to Dec. 31, 2009 that results in the Company receiving aggregate gross proceeds of not less than $3 billion, the number of shares of common stock
originally covered by the warrant will be reduced by one-half. The U.S. Treasury will not exercise voting power associated with any shares underlying the warrant. The warrant was classified as permanent equity under GAAP.      On Dec. 18, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million shares of common stock. This authorization was in addition to the authority
to repurchase up to 6.5 million shares previously approved by the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors on Aug. 8, 2007, which was completed during the first quarter of 2008. We repurchased 6.3 million shares of our common stock in
the first quarter of 2008 as part of a publicly announced plan. Included in the shares repurchased were 5.9 million shares, at an initial price of $45.05 per share, acquired through a purchase agreement with a broker-dealer counterparty which
borrowed the shares as part of an accelerated share repurchase  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     121   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 ( ASR ) program. The initial price was subject to a purchase price adjustment based on the price the counterparty actually paid for the shares. In
the third      quarter of 2008, we received $19 million in cash to settle the purchase price adjustments.         
    At Dec. 31, 2008, 33.8 million shares were available for repurchase under the December 2007 program. There is no expiration date on this repurchase program.   
         19. Comprehensive results        
 
          20. Stock based compensation       Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for
the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs) and other stock-based awards to employees of the Company.       Stock Option
      Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options at fair market value at the date of grant to officers and employees of the
Company. At Dec. 31, 2008, under the new Long-Term Incentive Plan approved in April, 2008, we may issue 69,122,075 new options, of this amount, 27,688,174 shares may be issued as restricted stock or RSUs. Generally, each option granted is
exercisable between one and ten years from the date of grant.      The compensation cost that has been charged against income was $109 million, $66 million,
and $42 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The   
   
 total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $44 million, $27 million, and $19 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.   
  We used a lattice-based binomial method to calculate the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using
the weighted-average assumptions noted in the following table:       
    For 2008 and 2007, assumptions were determined as follows:       

Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our stock, historical volatility of our stock, and other factors.

122     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                  

We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model.      

The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of grant.

The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to
be outstanding.      
        A summary of the status of
our options as of Dec. 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, and changes during the years ended on those dates, is presented below:       

(a)   
   Values 2006 and 2005 represent legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only and are presented in post merger share count terms.          

(a)   
   Values for 2006 represent legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only and are presented in post merger share count terms.                  Stock options outstanding at Dec. 31, 2008    

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     123   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended Dec. 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $53 million, $148 million, and $100 million.
     As of Dec. 31, 2008, there was $139 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested options. The unrecognized compensation cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years.      Cash received from option exercises for the years ended Dec. 31, 2008, 2007, and
2006, was $182 million, $475 million, and $217 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercised totaled $14 million, $55 million, and $37 million, respectively, for the years ended Dec. 31,
2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.       Restricted stock and restricted stock units ( RSU )       Restricted stock and RSUs are granted under our Long-Term Incentive Plans at no cost to the recipient.   
   
 These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period. The recipient of a
share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and generally is entitled to dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse. The recipient generally is
entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding but does not receive voting rights. At Dec. 31, 2008, under the Long Term Incentive Plans, we may issue
27,688,174 new restricted stock and RSUs.      The fair value of restricted stock and RSUs is equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of
grant. The expense is recognized over the vesting period of one to seven years. The total compensation expense recognized for restricted stock and RSUs was $134 million, $101 million and $70 million recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
  
        The following table summarizes our nonvested restricted stock
activity for 2008.       
             As of Dec. 31, 2008, $152 million of total
unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately two years.         
     21. Employee benefit plans  
     The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and eligible part-time employees and other
post-retirement plans providing healthcare benefits for certain retired employees.   
       
   124     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     Pension and post-retirement healthcare plans       The following tables
report the combined data for our domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans. The impact of acquisitions shown below primarily reflects the merger with Mellon Financial, effective July 1, 2007.   

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Inc. and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.          

(a)   
   Results prior to July 1, 2007 represent legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Assumptions in effect as of July 1, 2007 for legacy Mellon Financial plans include a discount rate of 6.25% for domestic plans and discount rate of 5.75% for foreign plans,
an expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.25% and a rate of compensation increase of 3.25%.      

(c)   
   Pension benefits expense includes discontinued operations expense of $6 million for 2006.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     125   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                 

Changes in other comprehensive (income) loss in 2008   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

Net loss (gain) arising during period   
      
  $  
  1,400  

$  
  52  

$  
  12  

$  
  (4  
  )   
 
    Recognition of prior years net (loss)   

(35  
  )  

(3  
  )  

(6  
  )  

-  

Prior service cost (credit) arising during period   

(34  
  )  

-  

(4  
  )  

-  

Recognition of prior years service (cost) credit   

10  

-  

-  

-  

Recognition of net initial (obligation) asset   

-  

-  

(4  
  )  

-  

Foreign exchange adjustment   

N/A  

(16  
  )  

N/A  

1  

Total recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss (before tax effects)   
      
  $  
  1,341  

$  
  33  

$  
  (2  
  )  
     
  $  
  (3  
  )   

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit       cost (income) in 2009 (before tax effects)    
      
  Pension Benefits  
      
  Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  
      
  Domestic  
      
  Foreign  

(Gain) loss recognition   
      
  $  
  25  

$  
  3  
      
  $  
  5  
      
  $  
  (1  
  )   
 
    Prior service cost recognition   

(14  
  )  

-  

-  

-  

Net initial obligation (asset) recognition   

-  

-  

4  

-  

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $ 2.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and $2.6
billion at Dec. 31, 2007.       
    Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each asset class.
Anticipated returns are weighted for the expected allocation for each asset class and are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We
also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      For additional information on pension
assumptions see  Critical Accounting Estimates  on page 46.         
     Assumed healthcare cost trend Domestic healthcare
benefits       The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used in determining benefit expense for 2008 is 9.5% decreasing to 5.0% in 2015. This projection is
based on various economic models that forecast a decreasing growth rate of healthcare expenses over time. The underlying assumption is that healthcare expense growth cannot outpace gross national product ( GNP ) growth indefinitely, and
over time a lower equilibrium growth rate will be achieved. Further, the growth rate assumed in 2015 bears a reasonable relationship to the discount rate.      An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the postretirement benefit obligation by $17.1 million, or 6.3% and the sum of the service and interest costs by $1.2 million, or 6.4%.
Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $15.0 million, or 5.6%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $1.0 million, or 5.6%.       Assumed healthcare cost trend Foreign healthcare benefits       An
increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the post-retirement benefit obligation by $0.4 million, or 20%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.03 million, or 25%. Conversely, a
decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $0.3 million, or 16%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.03 million, or 20%.   
       
   126     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Investment strategy and asset allocation  
     Our investment objective for U.S. and foreign plans is to maximize total return while maintaining a broadly diversified portfolio for the primary purpose
of satisfying obligations for future benefit payments.      Equities are the main holding including our common stock as well as private equities. Alternative
investments and fixed income securities provide diversification and lower the volatility of returns. In general, equity securities within any domestic plan s portfolio can be maintained in the range of 50% to 80% of total plan assets,
fixed-income securities can range from 15% to 45% of plan assets and other assets (including cash equivalents) can be held in amounts ranging from 0% to 5% of plan assets. Actual asset allocation within the approved ranges varies from time to time
based on economic conditions (both current and forecast) and the advice of professional advisors.      Our pension assets were invested as follows at Dec. 31,
2008 and 2007:       
    Included in the domestic plan assets above were 2 million shares of our common stock with a fair value of $57
million and $98 million at Dec. 31, 2008 and Dec. 31, 2007, respectively, representing 4.6% of 2008 plan assets and 3% of 2007 plan assets. The Company retirement plans received approximately $2 million of dividends from our stock in both 2008 and
2007. Assets of the U.S. post retirement healthcare plan are invested in an insurance contract.      The Company expects to make cash contributions to fund its
defined benefit pension plans in 2009 of $39 million for the domestic plans and $18 million for the foreign plans.         
    The following benefit payments for the Company s pension
and healthcare plans, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:       
     Defined contribution plans       We have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) covering certain domestic full-time employees with more than one year of service. The ESOP works in conjunction with the legacy The Bank of New York Company,
Inc. defined benefit pension plan. Employees are entitled to the higher of their benefit under the ESOP or such defined benefit pension plan at retirement. Benefits payable under the defined benefit pension plan are offset by the equivalent value of
benefits earned under the ESOP.      Contributions are made equal to required principal and interest payments on borrowings by the ESOP. At Dec. 31, 2008 and
Dec. 31, 2007, the ESOP owned 8.5 million and 9.0 million shares of our stock, respectively. The fair value of total ESOP assets were $247 million and $443 million at Dec. 31, 2008 and Dec. 31, 2007. Contributions were approximately $0
million in 2008, $3.6 million in 2007 and $3.3 million in 2006. ESOP related expense was $0 million, $3 million and $3 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006.      We
have defined contribution plans, excluding the ESOP, for which we recognized a cost of $99 million in 2008, $86 million in 2007, and $62 million in 2006. The increase in defined contribution costs in 2008 is due to recording full year expense
related to the legacy Mellon Financial defined contribution plans.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     127   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      22. Company financial information       Our bank subsidiaries are subject to dividend limitations under the Federal Reserve Act, as well as national and state banking laws. Under these statutes, prior
regulatory approval is required for dividends in any year that would exceed the Bank s net profits for such year combined with retained net profits for the prior two years. Additionally, such bank subsidiaries may not declare dividends in
excess of net profits on hand, as defined, after deducting the amount by which the principal amount of all loans, on which interest is past due for a period of six months or more, exceeds the allowance for credit losses. The Bank of New York Mellon,
which is a New York state chartered bank, is also prohibited from paying dividends in excess of net profits.      Under the first and more significant of these
limitations, our bank subsidiaries could declare dividends of approximately $1.8 billion in 2009 plus net profits earned in the remainder of 2009.      The
payment of dividends also is limited by minimum capital requirements imposed on banks. As of Dec. 31, 2008, BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries exceeded these minimum requirements.      The bank subsidiaries declared dividends of $575 million in 2008, $627 million in 2007, and $2.1 billion in 2006. The Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) have
issued additional guidelines that require bank holding companies and national banks to continually evaluate the level of cash dividends in relation to their respective operating income, capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.
     The Federal Reserve Board can also prohibit a dividend if payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The Federal Reserve Board
generally considers that a bank s dividends should not exceed earnings from continuing operations.         
    In addition, the issuance of the Series B preferred shares
places restrictions on our common stock dividend. The consent of the U.S. Treasury is required to pay any dividend on our common stock other than regular quarterly dividends of not more than our current quarterly dividend of $0.24 per common share.
Our capital ratios and discussion of related regulatory requirements are presented in the  Capital   Capital adequacy  section on page 70 and through the risk-based and leverage capital ratios at year-end table on page 71 and are
incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      The Federal Reserve Act limits and requires collateral for extensions of
credit by our insured subsidiary banks to the Company and certain of its non-bank affiliates. Also, there are restrictions on the amounts of investments by such banks in stock and other securities of the Company and such affiliates, and restrictions
on the acceptance of their securities as collateral for loans by such banks. Extensions of credit by the banks to each of our affiliates are limited to 10% of such bank s regulatory capital, and in the aggregate for the Company and all such
affiliates to 20%, and collateral must be between 100% and 130% of the amount of the credit, depending on the type of collateral.      Our insured subsidiary
banks are required to maintain reserve balances with Federal Reserve Banks under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. Required balances averaged $1.2 billion and $403 million for the years 2008 and 2007.      In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the
deficiency by assessment upon the bank s shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.

128     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     The Parent company s condensed financial
statements are as follows:       Condensed Income Statement The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation )    (a)      

(a)   
   Includes results of discontinued operations and the extraordinary (losses).      

(b)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.            
     Condensed Balance Sheet The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
(Parent Corporation)        

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     129   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Condensed Statement of Cash Flows The Bank of New
York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.            
     23. Fair value of financial instruments       The carrying amounts of our financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methods see Note 1  Summary
of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis. However, active markets do not exist for a significant
portion of these instruments, principally loans and commitments. As a result, fair value determinations require significant subjective judgments regarding future cash flows. Other judgments would result in different fair values. Among the
assumptions we used are discount rates ranging principally from 0.08% to 3.25% at Dec. 31, 2008 and 3.24% to 7.25% at Dec. 31, 2007. The fair value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented
throughout this report.      Note 24,  Fair value measurement  presents assets and liabilities measured at fair value by the three level valuation
hierarchy established by FAS 157, as well as a roll forward schedule of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs. Note 25,  Fair value option  presents the instruments for which fair value accounting was elected and
the corresponding income statement impact of these instruments.      A summary of the practices used for determining fair value is as follows.       Interest-bearing deposits in banks       The fair value interest-bearing
deposits in banks is based on discounted cash flows.       Securities, trading activities, and derivatives used for ALM       The fair value of securities and trading assets and liabilities is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes, or pricing models. Fair value amounts for derivative
instruments, such as options, futures and forward rate contracts, commitments to purchase and sell foreign exchange, and foreign currency swaps, are similarly determined. The fair value of over-the-counter interest rate swaps is the discounted value
of projected future cash flows, adjusted for other factors including, but not limited to and if applicable, optionality and implied volatilities, as well as counterparty credit.   
       
   130     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Loans and commitments       For other residential mortgage loans, fair value includes consideration of the quoted market prices for securities backed by similar loans. Discounted future cash flows
and secondary market values are used to determine the fair value of other types of loans. The fair value of commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, and commercial letters of credit is based upon the cost to settle the commitment.
      Other financial assets       Fair value is assumed to
equal carrying value for these assets due to their short maturity.       Deposits, borrowings and long-term debt       The fair value of noninterest-bearing deposits and payables to customers and broker-dealers is assumed to be their carrying amount. The fair value of interest-bearing
deposits, borrowings, and long-term debt is based upon current rates for instruments of the same remaining maturity or quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.       
       
    The table below summarizes the carrying amount of the hedged financial instruments and the related notional amount of the hedge and estimated fair value (unrealized
gain/(loss)) of the derivatives that were linked to these items:       

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     131   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     

(a)   
   The forward LIBOR rate shown above reflects the implied forward yield curve for that index at Dec. 31, 2008. However, actual repricings for ALM interest rate swaps are generally
based on 3-month LIBOR.               24. Fair value measurement       We adopted SFAS 157, ( Fair Value
Measurement ), effective Jan. 1, 2008. SFAS 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and
establishes a framework for measuring fair value. It establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and expands the
disclosures about instruments measured at fair value. SFAS 157 requires consideration of a company s own creditworthiness when valuing liabilities. SFAS 157 also nullified the guidance in EITF 02-3, which required the deferral of profit at
inception of a transaction involving a derivative financial instrument in the absence of observable data supporting the valuation technique and eliminated large position discounts for financial instruments quoted in active markets.      We also adopted SFAS 159 effective Jan. 1, 2008. SFAS 159 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement basis for selected financial assets,
financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments which are not subject to fair value under other accounting standards. As a result of adopting SFAS 159, we elected fair value accounting for certain assets and
liabilities not previously carried at fair value. For more information, see Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Determination of
fair value       Following is a description of our valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Such valuation methodologies
were applied to all of the assets and liabilities carried at fair value,   
   
 whether as a result of the adoption of SFAS 159 or previously carried at fair value. We have established processes for determining fair values. Fair value is
based upon quoted market prices, where available. For financial instruments where quotes from recent exchange transactions are not available, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis, comparison to similar instruments, and the
use of financial models. Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. Model-based pricing uses inputs of observable prices for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, option
volatilities and other factors. Models are benchmarked and validated by an independent internal risk management function. Our valuation process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns,
observability of model parameters and the results of stress tests. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.      Most derivative contracts are valued using internally developed models which are calibrated to observable market data and employ standard market pricing theory for their valuations. An initial  risk-neutral 
valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on an AA credit curve. Then, to arrive at a fair value that incorporates counterparty credit risk, a credit adjustment is made to these results by discounting each trade s
expected exposures to the counterparty using the counterparty s credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market. We also adjust expected liabilities to the counterparty using the Company s own credit spreads, also implied by
the credit default swap market. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative position is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads as well as those of our counterparties. We began incorporating the credit risk adjustments on Jan. 1,
2008.   
       
   132     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     In certain cases, we may face additional costs
to exit large risk positions or recent prices may not be observable for instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets. The costs to exit large risk positions are based on evaluating the negative change in the market during the time it
would take for us to bring those positions to normal market levels for those instruments. Upon evaluating the uncertainty in valuing financial instruments subject to liquidity issues, we make an adjustment to their value. The determination of the
liquidity adjustment includes the availability of external quotes, the time since the latest available quote and the price volatility of the instrument.      Certain parameters in some financial models are not directly observable and, therefore, are based on managements  estimates and judgments. These financial instruments are normally traded less actively. Examples include certain credit
products where parameters such as correlation and recovery rates are unobservable. We apply valuation adjustments to mitigate the possibility of error and revision in the model based estimate value.      The methods described above may produce a current fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. We
believe our methods of determining fair value are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies or different assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a different
estimate of fair value.       Valuation hierarchy       SFAS 157
establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are described below.        Level 1  : Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 1 assets and
liabilities include debt and equity securities and derivative financial instruments actively traded on exchanges and U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over the counter markets.
        
      Level 2  : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, for example, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for
identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable or can be corroborated, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 2 assets and
liabilities include debt instruments that are traded less frequently than exchange traded securities and derivative instruments whose model inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by market observable data. Examples in this
category are certain variable and fixed rate agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate debt securities and derivative contracts.        Level 3  : Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. Examples in this category include interests in certain securitized financial assets, certain private equity
investments, and derivative contracts that are highly structured or long-dated.      A financial instrument s categorization within the valuation
hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.      Following is a description of the valuation
methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments       Where quoted market prices are not available, we generally base the fair value of loans and
unfunded lending-related commitments on observable market prices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics. If observable market prices are not available, we base the fair value on estimated
cash flows adjusted for credit risk which are discounted using an interest rate appropriate for the maturity of the applicable loans or the unfunded commitments.      Loans carried at fair value are included in trading assets on the balance sheet. Unrealized gains and losses on unfunded lending commitments carried at fair value are classified in Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively. Loans and
unfunded lending commitments carried at fair value are generally classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     133   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Securities       Where quoted prices are available in an active market, we classify the securities within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities are defined as both long and short
positions. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government bonds, certain mortgage products and exchange-traded equities. If quoted market prices are not available, we estimate fair values using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with
similar characteristics, or discounted cash flows. Examples of such instruments, which would generally be classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy, include certain agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial
mortgage-backed securities and European floating rate notes. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to the valuation, we classify those securities in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities
classified within Level 3 include certain asset-backed securities CDOs and other retained interests in securitizations.       Other short-term U.S.
government-backed commercial paper and borrowings from Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper       These instruments are classified in
Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. The fair value of these instruments is estimated using pricing models.       Derivatives       We classify exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include exchanged-traded equity and foreign exchange
options. Since few other classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, most of our derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters and we classify them in
Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Such derivatives include basic interest rate swaps and options and credit default swaps. Derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable market parameters and that are traded less actively or in
markets that lack two way flow, are classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include long-dated interest rate or currency swaps, where swap rates may be unobservable for longer maturities; and certain credit products, where
correlation and recovery rates are unobservable. Additional disclosures of derivative instruments are provided in Note 27 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       
  
     Seed capital       In our Asset Management segment we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for institutions and other
investors; as part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. Seed capital is included in trading assets, securities available-for-sale and other assets, depending on the nature of the investment. When applicable, we value
seed capital based on the published net asset value ( NAV ) of the fund. We include funds in which ownership interests in the fund are publicly-traded in an active market and institutional funds in which investors trade in and out daily in
Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. We include open-end funds where investors are allowed to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than daily and where our interest in the fund contains no other rights or obligations in
Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. However, we generally include investments in funds which allow investors to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than monthly in Level 3, unless actual redemption prices are observable.
     For other types of investments in funds, we consider all of the rights and obligations inherent in our ownership interest, including the reported NAV as
well as other factors that affect the fair value of our interest in the fund. To the extent the NAV measurements reported for the investments are based on unobservable inputs or include other rights and obligations (e.g., obligation to meet cash
calls), we generally classify them in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.       Certain interests in securitizations       For certain interests in securitizations which are classified in securities available-for-sale and other assets, we use discounted cash flow models which generally
include assumptions of projected finance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses, prepayment assumptions and estimates of payments to third-party investors. When available, we compare our fair value estimates and
assumptions to market activity and to the actual results of the securitized portfolio. Changes in these assumptions may significantly impact our estimate of fair value of the interests in securitizations; accordingly, we generally classify them in
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.   
       
   134     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  Private equity investments       Our Other segment includes
holdings of nonpublic private equity investment through funds managed by third party investment managers and, to a lesser extent, direct investment in private equities. Nonpublic private equity investments generally lack quoted market prices, are
less liquid and may be long term; accordingly, we must apply significant judgment in determining their fair value. We value private equity investments initially based upon the transaction price which we subsequently adjust to reflect expected exit
values as evidenced by financing and sale transactions with third parties or through ongoing reviews by the investment managers.      The investment managers
consider a number of factors in changes in valuation including current operating performance and future expectations of the particular investment, industry valuations of   
   
 comparable public companies, changes in market outlook and the financing environment. Nonpublic private equity investments are included in Level 3 of the
valuation hierarchy.      Private equity investments also include publicly held equity investments, generally obtained through the initial public offering of
privately held equity invest-ments. Publicly held investments are marked-to-market at the quoted public value less adjustments for regulatory or contractual sales restrictions. Discounts for restrictions are quantified by analyzing the length of the
restriction period and the volatility of the equity security. Publicly held investments are primarily classified in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.      The following table presents the financial instruments carried at fair value as of Dec. 31, 2008, by caption on the consolidated balance sheet and by SFAS 157 valuation hierarchy (as described above).   

(a)   
   Includes seed capital and certain interests in securitizations.      

(b)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets.      

(c)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital and derivatives in designated hedging relationships. Includes certain financial instruments previously carried at fair value
such as private equity investments whose accounting basis has not changed under a SFAS 159 fair value option election.      

(d)   
   Included within other liabilities is the fair value adjustment for certain unfunded lending-related commitments and derivatives in designated hedging relationships and support
agreements.      

(e)   
   FIN 39 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash collateral.  
          
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     135   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements       The table
below includes a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, (including the change in fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.      Our classification of a financial instrument in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is based on the significance of the unobservable factors to the overall fair value
measurement. However, these instruments generally   
   
 include other observable components that are actively quoted or validated to third party sources; accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below
include changes in fair value due to observable parameters as well as the unobservable parameters in our valuation methodologies. We also frequently manage the risks of Level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivatives positions that
are Level 1 or 2 instruments which are not included in the table; accordingly, the gains or losses below do not reflect the effect of our risk management activities related to the Level 3 instruments.   

(a)   
   Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss except for other than temporary
impairment losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading activities.      

(c)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading activities, except for derivatives in designated hedging relationships which are recorded in interest revenue and interest expense.
              Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis       Under certain circumstances we make adjustments to fair value our assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments although they are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis. An example would   
   
 be the recording of an impairment of an asset. The following table presents the financial instruments carried on the consolidated balance sheet by caption
and by level in the fair value hierarchy as of Dec. 31, 2008, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the year ended Dec. 31, 2008.   

(a)   
   During the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, the fair value of these loans was reduced $86 million, based on the fair value of the underlying collateral as allowed by SFAS 114,
Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a loan, with an offset to the allowance for credit losses.      

(b)   
   Includes assets received in satisfaction of debt. The fair value of these assets was reduced $4 million in 2008 based on the fair value of the underlying collateral with an
offset in other revenue.            
   136     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  25. Fair value option       SFAS 159 provides an option to elect fair
value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan commitments not previously carried at fair value.      Effective Jan. 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS 159 and elected the fair value option for $390 million of existing loans and unfunded loan commitments where the related credit
risks were partially managed utilizing credit default swaps which were fair valued in earnings and, as a result, recorded a cumulative effect decrease to retained earnings of $36 million after-tax. The election was intended to mitigate volatility in
net income that had been caused by measuring the loans on a different basis than credit default swaps which referenced notes of the same   
   
 obligors and to align the accounting on the loans with our risk management practices. At Dec. 31, 2008, all loans for which fair value had been elected were
paid in full.      In the third quarter of 2008, upon entering these transactions, we elected the fair value option on other short-term U.S. government-backed
commercial paper and borrowings from the Federal Reserve related to asset-backed commercial paper. Both of these instruments had a balance of $5.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2008. The fair value of these securities is determined using pricing models. There
is a high correlation between these instruments. As a result, the fair value election mitigates volatility to net income.      The details of the impact of
adopting SFAS 159 by financial statement line caption as of Jan. 1, 2008, are presented below.   

(a)   
   Represents loans that were carried at fair value pursuant to the fair value option. Other loans which are eligible for election, but are not managed on a fair value basis
continue to be carried on an accrual basis.      

(b)   
   There is no allowance for loan losses recorded for loans reported under the fair value option; accordingly, the portion of the reserve for loan loss allocable to such loans was
reversed.      

(c)   
   Represents the fair value for unfunded lending-related commitments.               Changes in fair value under the fair value
option election       The following table presents the changes in fair value included in foreign exchange and other trading activities in the consolidated
income statement for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008, for the loans and unfunded lending commitments for which the fair value election was made. However, the profit and loss information presented only includes the loans that we elected to be measured
at fair value under the fair value option; the related credit default swaps, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.         

Foreign exchange and other trading activities       (in millions)    
      
   Year ended Dec. 31, 2008   

Loans   
      
   $   
   70   

Other liabilities   

(1   
   )    
    At Dec. 31, 2008, the fair market value of unfunded lending-related commitments for which the fair value option
was elected was a liability of $3 million, which is included in other liabilities. The contractual amount of such commitments was $110 million.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     137   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      26. Commitments and contingent liabilities
      In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding which are not reflected in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.      Our significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest rate risk management
products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications. We assume these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the ability to meet credit and liquidity needs,
to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks, and to trade for our own account. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange, and interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet. Our off-balance sheet risks are
managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance-sheet risks. Significant industry concentrations related to credit exposure are disclosed in the  Financial institutions portfolio exposure  table and the
 Commercial portfolio exposure  table on page 54. Those tables are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Major concentrations in securities lending are primarily to broker-dealers and are
generally collateralized with cash. Securities lending transactions are discussed below.      A summary of our off-balance sheet credit transactions, net of
participations, at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007 follows:       

Included in lending commitments are facilities which provide liquidity, primarily for variable rate tax exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit
approval for these facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax exempt issuer and considers factors other than the financial strength of the monoline insurer.         
    The total potential loss on
undrawn lending commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral.      Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The allowance
for lending-related commitments was $114 million at Dec. 31, 2008 and $167 million at Dec. 31, 2007. A summary of lending commitment maturities is as follows: $14 billion less than one year; $24 billion in one to five years, and $1 billion over five
years.      Standby letters of credit ( SBLC ) principally support corporate obligations. As shown in the off-balance sheet credit risks table, the
maximum potential exposure of SBLCs at Dec. 31, 2008 was $13.1 billion and $13.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and Dec. 31, 2007 and includes $1.063 billion and $683 million that were collateralized with cash and securities at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007. At
Dec. 31, 2008, approximately $7.8 billion of the standby letters of credit will expire within one year and the remaining $5.3 billion will expire within one to five years.      We must recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. As required by FASB
Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,  the fair value of the liability, which was recorded with a corresponding asset
in other assets, was estimated as the present value of contractual customer fees.      The estimated liability for losses related to these commitments and
standby letters of credit, if any, is included in the allowance for unfunded commitments.      Payment/performance risk of SBLCs is monitored using both
historical performance and internal ratings criteria. The Company s historical experience is that SBLCs typically expire without being funded. SBLCs below investment grade are monitored closely for payment/performance risk. The table below
shows SBLCs by investment grade:       

138     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     A securities lending transaction is a fully
collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms
of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. We generally lend securities with indemnification against broker default. We generally require the borrower to provide 102% cash collateral which is monitored on a daily basis,
thus reducing credit risk. Security lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly-rated counterparties. Securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $335 billion at Dec. 31, 2008 and $637 billion at Dec. 31,
2007.      At Dec. 31, 2008, our potential exposure to support agreements was approximately $244 million, based on the securities subject to these agreements
being valued at zero and the NAV of the related funds declining below established thresholds. This exposure includes agreements covering Lehman securities, as well as other client support agreements. Future realized support agreement charges will
principally depend on the price of Lehman securities, fund performance and the number of clients that accept our offer of support.       Operating leases
      Net rent expense for premises and equipment was $365 million in 2008, $278 million in 2007 and $180 million in 2006.      At Dec. 31, 2008, we were obligated under various noncancelable lease agreements, some of which provide for additional rents based upon real estate taxes, insurance, and
maintenance and for various renewal options. A summary of the future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, net of related sublease revenue, is as follows: 2009 $319 million; 2010 $311 million; 2011 $278
million; 2012 $244 million; 2013 $224 million; and 2014 through 2028  $1.268 billion.       Other       We have provided standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of
arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing financial services. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of these risks. We   
   
 are a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities, or other
transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is
not possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with such agreements.      As previously disclosed, on Aug. 6, 2008, the
IRS announced a uniform settlement program for taxpayers participating in LILO and SILO transactions. In the third quarter of 2008, we executed a closing agreement with the IRS for the 1998 through 2002 audit cycle which resolved, with exception of
one matter (for additional information see Note 29 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), all issues from this period. As part of the closing agreement, we accepted the IRS  uniform LILO and SILO settlement. We also settled our
1994 through 1996 New York State and New York City audits. The combined after-tax charge of these settlements was $30 million.      Based on a probability
assessment of various potential outcomes, we currently believe our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the tax liabilities are made when
appropriate.      As previously disclosed, in connection with the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business of JPMorgan Chase, we were required to
file various IRS information and withholding tax returns. While preparing these returns in 2007, we identified certain inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation and records transferred to us that were needed to file accurate returns. For
additional information, see Note 29 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      As previously disclosed, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we also
discovered that other business lines, including the legacy The Bank of New York corporate trust business, may have similar issues and initiated an extensive company-wide review to identify any inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation. Any
deficiencies that are identified will be promptly remediated. We made an initial disclosure of this matter to the IRS on a voluntary basis in the fourth quarter of 2007 and we continue to work diligently  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     139   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 with the IRS to help resolve the matter. Any exposure resulting from this matter is uncertain and cannot currently be reasonably estimated.       27. Derivative instruments       The following table summarizes the notional amount
and credit exposure of our total derivative portfolio at Dec. 31, 2008 and 2007.       

(a)   
   Before application of collateral.         The notional amounts for
derivative financial instruments express the dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller. We perform credit reviews and enter into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of foreign currency and interest rate risk
management products. We enter into offsetting positions to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.      At Dec. 31, 2008, approximately
$478 billion (notional) of interest rate contracts will mature within one year, $251 billion between one and five years, and the balance after five years. At Dec. 31, 2008, approximately $236 billion (notional) of foreign exchange contracts will
mature within one year and $5 billion between one and five years, and the balance after five years.         
    Use of derivative financial instruments involves reliance on
counterparties. Failure of a counterparty to honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk we assume whenever we engage in a derivative contract. In 2008, counterparty default losses on both trading and hedging derivatives were $20
million. There were no counterparty default losses on these instruments in 2007 and 2006.       Hedging derivatives       We utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of fixed-rate loans, asset-backed securities, deposits and
long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and the interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed-rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the
fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR.      The fixed rate loans hedged generally have an original maturity of 9 to 12 years and are not callable. These loans are hedged with  pay fixed rate, receive variable
rate  swaps with similar notional amounts, maturities, and fixed rate coupons. The swaps are not callable. At Dec. 31, 2008, $6 million of loans were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $6 million.      The securities hedged generally have a weighted average life of 10 years or less and are callable six months prior to maturity. These securities are hedged with pay
fixed rate, receive variable rate swaps of like maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are callable six months prior to maturity. At Dec. 31, 2008, $218 million of securities were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional
values of $218 million.      The fixed rate deposits hedged generally have original maturities of 3 to 12 years, and, except for four deposits, are not
callable. These deposits are hedged with receive fixed rate, pay variable rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable except for the four that hedge the callable deposits. At Dec. 31, 2008, $590
million of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $590 million.   
       
   140     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 The fixed rate long-term debt hedged generally has an original maturity of 5 to 30 years. We issue both callable and non-callable debt. The non-callable debt
is hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At Dec. 31, 2008, $11.6 billion of debt was
hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $10.5 billion.      In addition, we enter into foreign exchange hedges. We use forward foreign
exchange contracts with maturities of 12 months or less to hedge our Sterling and Euro foreign exchange exposure with respect to forecasted revenue transactions in non-U.S. entities which have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. As of Dec.
31, 2008, the hedged forecasted foreign currency transactions and linked FX forward hedges were $184 million, with $7 million (pre-tax) of gains recorded in other comprehensive income. These gains are expected to be reclassified to income over the
next 12 months.      Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward
contracts usually have maturities of less than two years. The derivatives employed are designated as net investment hedges of changes in value of our foreign investments due to exchange rates, such that changes in value of the forward exchange
contracts offset the changes in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value of these contracts is deferred and reported   
   
 within accumulated translation adjustments in shareholders  equity, net of tax effects. At Dec. 31, 2008, foreign exchange contracts, with notional
amounts totaling $3.4 billion, were designated as hedges.      In addition to forward foreign exchange contracts, we also designate non-derivative financial
instruments as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Those non-derivative financial instruments designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries were all long-term liabilities of the Company in various currencies,
and, at Dec. 31, 2008, had a combined U.S. dollar equivalent value of $848 million.      Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was
recorded in income as follows:       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(b)   
   Includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     141   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                 

(b)   
   Fair values are on a gross basis, before consideration of master netting agreements, as required by SFAS No. 161.              

Impact of derivative instruments on the income statement       (in millions)    

Derivatives in Fair Value Hedging Relationships  
     
  Location of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivatives  
     
  Amount of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative  
     
  Location of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Hedged Item  
     
  Amount of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Hedged Item  

2008   
     
  2007  

2008   

2007  

Interest rate contracts   
     
  Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   632   
     
  $  
  127  
     
  Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   (603   
   )   
     
  $  
  (121  
  )   

Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships  
     
    Amount of     Gain or (Loss) Recognized in OCI on Derivative (Effective Portion)   
     
  Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified From Accumulated OCI Into
Income (Effective Portion)  
     
  Amount of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified From Accumulated OCI
Into Income (Effective Portion)  

Location of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative (Ineffective Portion
and Amount Excluded From Effective Testing)  
     
    Amount of Gain or
(Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative (Ineffectiveness Portion and Amount Excluded From     Effective
Testing)    

2008   
     
  2007  

2008   
     
  2007  

2008   

2007   
 
    Interest rate contracts   
     
   $   
   30.0   
     
  $  
  0.2  
     
  Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   3.3   
     
  $  
  4.6  

Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   (0.1   
   )   
     
  $  
  0.1   
 
    FX contracts   

14.4   

-  
     
  Other revenue  

7.5   

(4.2  
  )  
     
  Other revenue  

-   

-   
 
    Total   
     
   $   
   44.4   
     
  $  
  0.2  

$   
   10.8   
     
  $  
  0.4  

$   
   (0.1   
   )   
     
  $  
  0.1   

Derivatives in Net Investment Hedging Relationships  
     
    Amount of     Gain or (Loss) Recognized in OCI on Derivative (Effective Portion)   
     
  Location of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified From Accumulated OCI Into
Income (Effective Portion)  
     
  Amount of Gain or (Loss) Reclassified From Accumulated OCI Into Income (Effective Portion)  
     
  Location of Gain or (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative (Ineffective Portion
and Amount Excluded From Effective Testing)  
     
    Amount of Gain or
(Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivative (Ineffectiveness Portion and Amount Excluded From     Effective
Testing)   

2008   
     
  2007  

2008   
     
  2007  

2008   
     
  2007  

FX contracts   
     
   $   
   848   
     
  $  
  130  

$   
   -   
     
  $  
  -  
     
  Other revenue  
     
   $   
   0.1   
     
  $  
  (0.2  
  )   
       
   142     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Trading activities (including trading
derivatives)       Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers. The risk from these market-making activities and from
our own positions is managed by our traders and limited in total exposure as described below.      We manage trading risk through a system of position limits,
a value-at-risk ( VAR ) methodology based on Monte Carlo simulations, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures. Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a separate unit on a daily basis. Based on
certain assumptions, the VAR methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse changes in fair values of all trading positions. The calculation assumes a one-day holding period for most instruments, utilizes
a 99% confidence level, and incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options. The VAR model is the basis for the economic capital calculation, which is allocated to lines of business for computing risk-adjusted performance.      As the VAR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk assessment process includes a number of
stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions. Additional stress scenarios based upon historic market events are also performed. Stress tests, by their design, incorporate the
impact of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations. The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.         
    Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading activities
included the following:       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results for 2006 reflect legacy The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.         Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign exchange, futures, and
options. Interest rate contracts reflect results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, and options. Debt securities primarily reflect income from fixed income securities. Credit derivatives include revenue
from credit default swaps. Equities include income from equity securities and equity derivatives.      The Company monitors a volatility index of global
currency using a basket of 30 major currencies. In 2008, the volatility of this index was above median for most of the year and significantly above median in the fourth quarter.      The following table of total daily revenue or loss captures trading volatility and shows the number of days in which our trading revenues fell within particular ranges during the past year.   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     143   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 The volatility in the currency markets caused an increase in the unrealized gain/loss on the foreign exchange trading and derivative portfolios at Dec. 31,
2008. The volatility in the markets throughout 2008 has caused the number of days when our trading revenue exceeded $5 million to increase significantly.       Counterparty credit risk and collateral       We assess credit risk of our counterparties through regular periodic examination of their
financial statements, confidential communication with the management of those counterparties and regular monitoring of publicly available credit rating information. This and other information is used to develop proprietary credit rating metrics used
to assess credit quality.      Collateral requirements are determined after a comprehensive review of the credit quality of each counterparty. Collateral is
generally held in the form of cash or highly liquid government securities. Collateral requirements are monitored and adjusted daily.      Additional
disclosures concerning derivative financial instruments are provided in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       28. Business segments  
     For details of our business segments, see Business segments review on pages 23 through 25, the second table on page 26 and the tables on page 27 through
 Average assets  (excluding  pre-tax operating margin ). The tables and information in those paragraphs are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       29. Legal proceedings       In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its
subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and potential legal actions, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are asserted
in certain of these actions and proceedings. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement and the imposition of penalties and/or other remedial sanctions are possible. Due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such
matters, the Company cannot ascertain what the eventual outcome of these matters will be; however, on the basis of   
   
 current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, we do not believe that enforceable judgments or settlements, if any, arising from pending or
potential legal actions or regulatory matters, either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves and insurance coverage, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the
Company, although they could have a material effect on net income for a given period. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously against all of the claims asserted in these legal actions.      As previously disclosed in the Company s Form 8-K dated May 17, 2007, the Federal Customs Service of the Russian Federation is pursuing a claim against The
Bank of New York, now The Bank of New York Mellon (the  Bank ), a subsidiary of the Company. The claim is based on allegations relating to the previously disclosed Russian funds transfer matter, and alleges that the Bank violated U.S. law
by failing to supervise and monitor funds transfer activities at the Bank. This  lack of action  is alleged to have resulted in underpayment to the Russian Federation of the value added taxes that were due to be paid by the customers of
the bank s clients on certain goods imported into the country. The claim seeks $22.5 billion in  direct and indirect  losses.      The Bank has
been defending itself vigorously in this matter and intends to continue to do so. The Bank believes it has meritorious procedural and substantive defenses to the allegations in the Russian courts and also believes it has meritorious defenses to an
attempted enforcement of a judgment outside the Russian Federation in countries in which the Bank has material assets if a judgment were to be entered in this matter by the Russian courts.      As previously disclosed, during 2001 and 2002, we entered into various structured transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of U.K. corporate income
taxes that were credited against our U.S. corporate income tax liability.      On Sept. 30, 2008, as part of our closing agreement for the 1998-2002 federal
audit cycle, the IRS designated one such transaction for litigation and we agreed to litigate in the U.S. Tax Court.      The transaction involved payments of
U.K. corporate income taxes that generated foreign tax credits over the 2001-2006 period. The IRS has indicated it intends to seek to disallow the foreign tax credits  

144     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 primarily on the basis the transaction lacked economic substance. We are prepared to vigorously defend our position and believe the tax benefits associated
with the transaction were consistent with IRS published guidance existing at the time the transaction was entered into and with various federal appellate court decisions. In the event the Company is unsuccessful in defending its position, the IRS
has agreed not to assess underpayment penalties on this transaction.      As previously disclosed, the Bank filed a proof of claim on Jan. 18, 2008, in the
Chapter 11 bankruptcy of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ), seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at the Bank. Pursuant to a Plan
of Reorganization confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on Dec. 8, 2008, $370 million of cash has been set aside as a reserve, to be used by the Bank if its proof of claim is allowed in the bankruptcy. On March 3, 2008, the bankruptcy trustee
filed an adversary complaint against the Company seeking to disallow the Bank s claim and seeking damages against the Bank for allegedly aiding and abetting Sentinel insiders in misappropriating customer assets and improperly using them as
collateral for the loan. The Company has also learned that the Commodities Futures Trading Commission has opened an investigation that includes a review of Sentinel s relationship with the Bank.      As previously disclosed in the Company s 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) is investigating the
trading activities of Pershing Trading Company LP ( Pershing ), a floor specialist, on two regional exchanges from 1999 to 2004. Because the conduct at issue is alleged to have occurred largely during the period when Pershing was owned by
Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc. ( CSFB ), the Company has made claims for indemnification against CSFB relating to this matter under the agreement relating to the acquisition of Pershing. CSFB is disputing these claims for
indemnification.      As previously disclosed, in connection with the acquired JPMorgan Chase corporate trust business, the Bank was required to file various
IRS information and withholding tax returns for 2006. In preparing to do so, the Bank identified certain inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation and records transferred to the Bank that were needed to file accurate returns. The Company
and JPMorgan Chase jointly disclosed this matter to the IRS on a voluntary   
   
 basis in a meeting on Sept. 7, 2007 and the Company believes it will receive additional time to remediate the issues. The Company and JPMorgan Chase are
attempting to resolve the information reporting and withholding issues presented. While there can be no assurance, the Company believes that after remediation the potential financial exposure will be immaterial, and, in any event, the Company is
indemnified by JPMorgan Chase for the 2006 tax withholding and reporting obligations associated with the acquisition.      As previously disclosed, the Company
self-disclosed to the SEC that Mellon Financial Markets LLC ( MFM ) placed orders on behalf of issuers to purchase their own Auction Rate Securities. The SEC and certain state authorities, including the Texas Securities Board, are
investigating these transactions. MFM is cooperating fully with the investigations.      As previously disclosed, in the course of a routine review of customer
accounts at Mellon Securities LLC ( Mellon Securities ), the Company became aware of circumstances suggesting that employees of Mellon Securities, which executes orders to purchase and sell securities on behalf of Mellon Investor Services
LLC, failed to comply with certain best execution and regulatory requirements in connection with agency cross trades. The Company is reviewing the trades and is in the process of determining the extent of any remediation. The Company self-disclosed
this matter to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ) and the SEC on a voluntary basis.      As previously disclosed, in
December 2004, the National Association of Securities Dealers ( NASD ) commenced an inquiry into BNY Capital Markets, Inc. (now BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC,  BNY MCM ) concerning the participation in certain partial tender
offers for publicly traded securities by a small group of former traders, which was prompted by BNY MCM s disclosure to the NASD that it had identified certain instances in which BNY MCM tendered in excess of the firm s net long position
in the underlying securities. In December 2008, BNY MCM entered into letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent ( AWC ) with FINRA, the successor to the NASD. In the AWC, BNY MCM consented, without admitting or denying, to FINRA s
finding that it violated SEC Rule 14e-4 and NASD Rule 2110 (through its participation in the partial tender offers) and NASD Conduct Rule 3010 and 2110 regarding supervisory systems. BNY MCM also consented to a censure and a $90,000 fine.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     145   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 In August 2008, FINRA commenced an inquiry into BNY MCM concerning the sale of Auction Rate Securities ( ARS ). On Sept. 16, 2008, BNY MCM
signed a  Settlement Term Sheet,  with FINRA to resolve the investigation of the firm without admitting or denying FINRA s findings that BNY MCM sold ARS using advertising or marketing materials that were not fair and balanced. BNY
MCM agreed to: (1) buy back certain ARS from a class of individuals and certain entities who purchased ARS from BNY MCM from May 31, 2006 through Feb. 28, 2008 (such ARS having a total PAR value of approximately $20 million);
(2) make best efforts to provide liquidity to all other investors not in the relevant class but who purchased ARS from BNY MCM during the same period; and (3) a censure and fine in the amount of $250,000.      On Dec. 19, 2008, CompSource Oklahoma filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. The action names as defendants BNY
Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. The plaintiff alleges that participants in the defendants  securities lending program, through collective investment vehicles managed by the defendants, incurred losses relating to
investments in medium term notes of Sigma Finance Inc. The plaintiff purports to bring the lawsuit on its own behalf and as a representative of a class of participants. The plaintiff asserts claims for negligence, breach of fiduciary duty and breach
of contract. The complaint seeks unspecified damages.      On Dec. 11, 2008, Bernard L. Madoff was arrested by the FBI and sued by the SEC for engaging in a
massive  Ponzi-scheme  investment fraud through his broker dealer and investment advisory company, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC ( Madoff ). The Company has no direct exposure to   
   
 the Madoff fraud. Ivy Asset Management LLC ( Ivy ), a subsidiary that primarily manages funds-of-hedge-funds has not had any funds-of-funds
investments with Madoff since 2000. Several investment managers contracted with Ivy as a sub-advisor and one pension fund contracted with Ivy as investment manager; a portion of these funds were invested with Madoff and likely suffered losses as a
result of the Madoff fraud. Ivy continues to review these matters.      Ivy acted as a consultant to the investment manager for the Beacon Associates LLC I
( Beacon Associates ) fund-of-hedge-funds, which invested with Madoff. Ivy did not have discretion over investment decisions for Beacon Associates. On Jan. 27, 2009, the Trustees of a pension plan that invested in the Beacon Associates
fund sued the fund s investment manager, its directors and officers, Ivy, the Company, and Beacon Associates  auditors. The suit seeks unspecified damages allegedly resulting from violations of federal securities laws and common law,
including fraud and breach of fiduciary duties. The Company believes that the allegations lack merit and intends to vigorously defend against the suit.       30.
Related party transaction       Included in interest-bearing deposits with banks at Dec. 31, 2008 was approximately $3 billion of certificates of deposits
( CDs ) purchased from money market mutual funds managed by Dreyfus. During the second half of 2008, the Company purchased approximately $21 billion of CDs from the money market mutual funds. Approximately $18 billion of these CDs were
repaid in the fourth quarter of 2008. When the remaining securities mature in 2009, no gain or loss is expected to be recorded.   
       
   146     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM                 The Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2008. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. The accompanying consolidated statements of income, changes in
shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006, were audited by other auditors whose report, dated February 21, 2007, was unqualified.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the two-year period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2008, the Company changed its methods of accounting for fair value measurements and elected the fair
value option for certain financial assets.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 27, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting.         /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 27, 2009         
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     147   

Table of Contents  

      DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE              

Directors            Ruth E. Bruch      Senior Vice President and     Chief Information Officer     Kellogg Company     Cereal and convenience foods          Nicholas M. Donofrio      Retired Executive Vice President, Innovation and Technology     IBM Corporation     Developer, manufacturer and provider of advanced information
technologies and services          Gerald L. Hassell      President     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation          Edmund F. (Ted) Kelly      Chairman, President and Chief     Executive Officer     Liberty Mutual Group     Multi-line insurance company          Robert P. Kelly      Chairman and Chief     Executive Officer     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation          Richard J. Kogan      Retired President and Chief Executive Officer     Schering-Plough Corporation
     International research-based development and manufacturing          Michael J. Kowalski      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tiffany   Co.     International designer, manufacturer and distributor of jewelry and fine goods          John A. Luke, Jr.      Chairman and Chief     Executive Officer     MeadWestvaco Corporation     Manufacturer of paper, packaging and specialty chemicals          Robert Mehrabian      Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Teledyne Technologies, Inc.     Advanced industrial technologies          Mark A. Nordenberg      Chancellor     University of Pittsburgh     Major public research university   
      
     Catherine A. Rein      Retired Senior
Executive     Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer     MetLife, Inc.     Insurance and financial services company          William C. Richardson      President and Chief Executive Officer Emeritus
     The W. K. Kellogg Foundation     Private foundation          Samuel C. Scott III      Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Corn Products International, Inc.     Global producers of corn-refined products and ingredients          John P. Surma      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer United States Steel
Corporation     Steel manufacturing          Wesley W. von Schack      Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
     Energy East Corporation     Energy services company           Senior Management            Robert P. Kelly      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer          Gerald L.
Hassell      President   
      
      Executive Committee            Torry Berntsen      Chief Client Management Officer          Richard F. Brueckner      Chief Executive Officer,     Pershing LLC          Arthur Certosimo      Chief Executive Officer, Broker-Dealer Services and
     Alternative Investment Services     (effective March 1, 2009)
          Steven G. Elliott      Senior Vice Chairman          Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons 
     Chief Financial Officer          Timothy F. Keaney      Co-Chief Executive Officer,     BNY Mellon Asset Servicing          Carl
Krasik      General Counsel          David F. Lamere      Chief Executive Officer,     BNY Mellon Wealth Management          Jonathan Little      Vice Chairman, BNY Mellon Asset Management     Chairman, BNY Asset Management International          Donald R. Monks      Vice Chairman     Head, Integration          Ronald P. O Hanley      Chief Executive Officer, BNY Mellon Asset Management          James P. Palermo      Co-Chief Executive Officer,     BNY Mellon Asset Servicing          Karen B. Peetz      Chief Executive Officer,     Financial Markets and Treasury Services          Lisa B. Peters      Chief Human Resources Officer          Brian G. Rogan 
     Chief Risk Officer          Kurt D. Woetzel      Chief Information Officer    
           
   148     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

      PERFORMANCE GRAPH                

This graph shows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s cumulative total shareholder returns over the
five-year period from Dec. 31, 2003 to Dec. 31, 2008. The graph reflects total shareholder returns for The Bank of New York Company, Inc. from Dec. 31, 2003 to June 29, 2007, and for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation from July 2,
2007 to Dec. 31, 2008. June 29, 2007 was the last day of trading on the NYSE of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. common stock and July 2, 2007 was the first day of trading on the NYSE of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common
stock. We are showing combined The Bank of New York Company, Inc. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholder returns because The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation does not have a five-year history as a public company. During the
turbulent market environment in 2008, two members of our old peer group ceased to exist. As a result, we re-evaluated our old peer group and determined a change was appropriate. Our new peer group is composed of asset managers and institutional
service providers that represent our primary competitors. We are also utilizing the S P 500 Financial Index as a benchmark against our performance. The graph also shows the cumulative total returns for the same five-year period of the S P
500 index, as well as our old and new peer groups listed below. The comparison assumes a $100 investment on Dec. 31, 2003 in The Bank of New York Company, Inc. common stock (which was converted on a 0.9434 for one basis into The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation common stock on July 1, 2007), in the S P 500 Index, in the S P Financial Index and in each of the peer groups shown and assumes that all dividends were reinvested.       

Old Peer Group*   
      
   New Peer Group*    
 
    AllianceBernstein Holdings LP   
      
  American Express Company   
 
    BlackRock, Inc.   
      
  Bank of America Corporation   
 
    JPMorgan Chase   Co.   
      
  BlackRock, Inc.   
 
    Legg Mason, Inc.   
      
  Charles Schwab Corporation   
 
    Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Citigroup Inc.   
 
    Northern Trust Corporation   
      
  JPMorgan Chase   Co.   
 
    PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
      
  Northern Trust Corporation   
 
    Prudential Financial, Inc.   
      
  PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
 
    State Street Corporation   
      
  Prudential Financial, Inc.   
 
    SunTrust Banks, Inc.   
      
  State Street Corporation   
 
    US Bancorp   
      
  US Bancorp   
 
    Wachovia Corporation   
      
  Wells Fargo   Company   

*  
  Returns are weighted by market capitalization at the beginning of the measurement period.         
  
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     149   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 22
 dex211.htm
 PRIMARY SUBSIDARIES OF THE COMPANY

Primary subsidaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY                      DEC. 31, 2008        

Agency Brokerage Holding, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Alcentra Inc.   State of Incorporation: California      

Allomon Corporation   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

APT Holdings Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Holdings (Delaware) Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon AM Latin America, S.A.  Incorporation: Chile      

BNY Mellon Asset Management International Holdings, Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Asset Management International Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Asset Management Japan Limited   Incorporation: Japan      

BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V.   Incorporation: Netherlands      

BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Global Management Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon International Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Securities LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Servicos Financeros Distribuidora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios S.A.  Incorporation: Brazil      

BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois   State of Incorporation: Illinois      

BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon, N. A.   Incorporation: United States      

BNY Trade Insurance, Ltd.   Incorporation: Bermuda      

Boston Safe Deposit Finance Company, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

CIBC Mellon Global Securities Services Company   Incorporation: Canada      

CIBC Mellon Trust Company   Incorporation: Canada      

ConvergEx Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

DPM Mellon LLC   State of Organization: Nevada      

Dreyfus Service Organization, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Dreyfus Transfer Inc.   State of Incorporation: Maryland      

EACM Advisors LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Eagle Investment Systems LLC State of Organization: Delaware      

Founders Asset Management LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Hamon Investment Group Pte Limited   Incorporation: Singapore      

Ivy Asset Management LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Laurel Capital Advisors, LLP   State of Organization: Pennsylvania      

Lockwood Advisors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Lockwood Capital Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBC Investments Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBC SPC Leasing ULC   Incorporation: Nova Scotia      

MBSC Securities Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

MelDel Leasing Corporation #2   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Analytical Solutions, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Canada Holdings Company   Incorporation: Canada      

Mellon Capital III   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Capital IV   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Capital Management Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY       
                DEC. 31, 2008
      Continued       

Mellon Finance No. 2 (Netherlands) B.V.   Incorporation: Netherlands      

Mellon Financial Services Corporation #1   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Funding Corporation   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Mellon Global Investments Asia Limited   Incorporation: Jersey      

Mellon Hedge Advisors LLC,   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon International Holdings S.a.r.l.   Incorporation: Luxembourg      

Mellon International Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Investor Services Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Investor Services LLC   State of Organization: New Jersey      

Mellon Life Insurance Company   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Overseas Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Securities Investments LLC,   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Trustees Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

Mellon United National Bank, N.A.   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Ventures III, LP   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Ventures IV, LP   State of Organization: Delaware      

MIPA, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Neptune LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Newton Capital Management, Limited   Incorporation: England      

Newton Investment Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Newton Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Pareto Investment Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Pershing Advisor Solutions LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing Group LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Promontory Interfinancial Network, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Standish Mellon Asset Management Company LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

TBC Securities Co, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

The Bank of New York Capital Markets Limited   Incorporation: England      

The Bank of New York Mellon Bank (CI) Limited   Incorporation: United Kingdom      

The Bank of New York Mellon   State of Incorporation: New York      

The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company N.A.   Incorporation: United States      

The Boston Company Asset Management LLC   State of Organization: Massachusetts      

The Dreyfus Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Urdang Capital Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Urdang Securities Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Walter Scott and Partners Limited   Incorporation: Scotland      

WestLB Mellon Asset Management (US) LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 23
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED        PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors      of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:
     We consent to the incorporation by reference in:       
    of our reports dated February 27, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New
York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the two-year
period ended December 31, 2008, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, which reports appear in the December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company. The aforementioned
report with respect to the consolidated financial statements of the Company refers to changes, in 2008, in the Company s methods of accounting for fair value measurements and its election of the fair value option for certain financial assets.
     /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 24
 dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

Exhibit 23.2        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED        PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM           We consent to the inclusion in this Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (successor
by merger to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.) of our report dated February 21, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. included in the Annual Report of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation.      We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 21, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. included in the Annual Report of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, in the following Registration Statements:       
    /s/ E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      New York, New York      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-24.1>
 25
 dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1       POWER OF ATTORNEY      THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION      Know all men by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Carl Krasik and Arlie R. Nogay, and each of them, such
person s true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and revocation, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports on Form 10-K
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file same with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and
perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents and each of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      This power of attorney shall be
effective as of February 10, 2009 and shall continue in full force and effect until revoked by the undersigned in a writing filed with the secretary of the Corporation.       

/s/ Ruth E. Bruch   

/s/ Robert Mehrabian    
 
    Ruth E. Bruch, Director   

Robert Mehrabian, Director   

/s/ Nicholas M. Donofrio   

/s/ Mark A. Nordenberg    
 
  Nicholas M. Donofrio, Director  

Mark A. Nordenberg, Director   

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

/s/ Catherine A. Rein    
 
  Gerald L. Hassell, Director  

Catherine A. Rein, Director   

/s/ Edmund F. Kelly   

/s/ William C. Richardson    
 
  Edmund F. Kelly, Director  

William C. Richardson, Director   

/s/ Richard J. Kogan   

/s/ Samuel C. Scott III    
 
  Richard J. Kogan, Director  

Samuel C. Scott III, Director   

/s/ Michael J. Kowalski   

/s/ John P. Surma    
 
  Michael J. Kowalski, Director  

John P. Surma, Director   

/s/ John A. Luke, Jr.   

/s/ Wesley W. von Schack    
 
  John A. Luke, Jr., Director  

Wesley W. von Schack, Director   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 26
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION FOR THE CEO

Section 302 Certification for the CEO 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Robert P. Kelly, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  February 27, 2009  

/s/ Robert P.
Kelly   

Name:  
      
  Robert P. Kelly  

Title:  
      
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 27
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION FOR THE CFO

Section 302 Certification for the CFO 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Thomas P. Gibbons, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  February 27, 2009  

/s/ Thomas P.
Gibbons   

Name:  
      
  Thomas P. Gibbons  

Title:  
      
  Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 28
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION FOR THE CEO

Section 906 Certification for the CEO 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: February 27, 2009  

/s/ Robert P.
Kelly                               

Name:  
      
  Robert P. Kelly  

Title:  
      
  Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 29
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION FOR THE CFO

Section 906 Certification for the CFO 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Dated: February 27, 2009  

/s/ Thomas P.
Gibbons                       

Name:  
      
  Thomas P. Gibbons  

Title:  
      
  Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.2>

