<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130228_10-K_edgar_data_1390777_0001193125-13-084562_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>50071976</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>922593</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>12726629</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>11924647</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>16712361</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6628440</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>257</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-084562.hdr.sgml : 20130228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130228164810
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-084562
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Bank of New York Mellon CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001390777
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-35651
		FILM NUMBER:		13652925

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-495-1784

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-084562.txt : 20130228

10-K
 1
 d448545d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012    
    or        
 
   Commission File No. 001-35651         
        THE BANK OF
NEW YORK MELLON        CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        

Delaware   
     
   13-2614959    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
     One Wall Street        New York, New York 10286        (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip
Code)        Registrant s telephone number, including area code - (212) 495-1784    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, $0.01 par value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   Depositary Shares, each representing
1/4,000  th    of a share of Series C Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock    
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities of Mellon Capital IV (Fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation)   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
   None    
   (Title of Class)         
       Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.               Yes         No      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).         Yes         No      As of June 30, 2012, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was $25,863,722,820.   
  As of January 31, 2013, 1,161,951,953 shares of the registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, were outstanding.   
         
   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference in the following parts of this Form 10-K:      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2013 Proxy Statement-Part III      The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders-Parts I, II and IV       

Table of Contents  

Available Information       This Form 10-K filed by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon  or the  Company ) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) contains the Exhibits
listed on the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 15, including those portions of BNY Mellon s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders (the  Annual Report ), which are incorporated herein by reference. For a free copy of BNY
Mellon s Annual Report or BNY Mellon s Proxy Statement for its 2013 Annual Meeting (the  Proxy ), as filed with the SEC, send a written request by email to corpsecretary@bnymellon.com or by mail to the Secretary of The Bank of
New York Mellon Corporation, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286. BNY Mellon s Annual Report is, and the Proxy upon filing with the SEC will be, available on our website at www.bnymellon.com. We also make available, free of charge, on our
website BNY Mellon s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or
furnish them to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). The following materials are also available, free of charge, on our website at www.bnymellon.com
under  Investor Relations, Corporate Governance  and are also available free of charge in print by written request from the Secretary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation at One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286, or
corpsecretary@bnymellon.com:       

BNY Mellon s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees, including BNY Mellon s senior financial officers;

BNY Mellon s Directors  Code of Conduct, which is applicable to our directors;      

BNY Mellon s Corporate Governance Guidelines; and      

the Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk and Technology
Committees of the Board of Directors.      
 
   The contents of BNY Mellon s website or any other websites referenced herein are not part of this
Form 10-K.       Forward-looking Statements       This Form 10-K contains statements relating to future results of BNY Mellon that are considered  forward-looking statements.  These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways,
including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things: all statements about the future results of BNY Mellon, projected business growth, statements with respect to the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory
and investigatory proceedings, and BNY Mellon s plans, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to, among others: our levels and types of competition, our business strategy, the adequacy of our facilities,
disclosure on our Codes of Conduct, the correction and enhancement of our policies and procedures with respect to information used in our public filings, and the streamlining and enhancing of our data collection processes and systems relating to
assets under custody and/or administration.      These forward-looking statements, and other forward-looking statements contained in other public
disclosures of BNY Mellon (including those incorporated in this Form 10-K) are based on assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s
control), including those factors described in the Annual Report under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A )   Risk Factors.  Actual results may differ
materially from those expressed or implied as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed in the  Risk Factors  section of our Annual Report, such as: government regulation and supervision, and associated limitations on our
ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions; recent legislative and regulatory actions; adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry
generally; continued litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings involving our foreign exchange standing instruction program; failure to satisfy regulatory standards; operational risk; failure or circumvention of our controls and
procedures; disruption or breaches in security of our information systems that results in a loss of confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide

BNY Mellon 1

Table of Contents  

services to our clients; failure to update our technology; change or uncertainty in monetary, tax and other governmental policies; intense competition in all aspects of our business; the risks
relating to new lines of business or new products and services, and the failure to grow our existing businesses; failure to attract and retain employees; political, economic, legal, operational and other risks inherent in operating globally; acts of
terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics and global conflicts; failure to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions; the ongoing Eurozone crisis, the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe, or a breakup of the
European Monetary Union, continuing uncertainty in financial markets and weakness in the economy; low or volatile interest rates; continued market volatility; further writedowns of financial instruments that we own and other losses related to
volatile and illiquid market conditions; dependence on our fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue; declines in capital markets on our fee-based businesses; the impact of a stable exchange-rate environment and declines in
cross-border activity on our foreign exchange revenue; material reductions in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of certain of our subsidiaries; the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, and our assumption of credit
and counterparty risk; credit, regulatory and reputation risks from our tri-party repo agent

services; the impact of not effectively managing our liquidity; inadequate reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves; tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions; changes in
accounting standards; risks associated with being a holding company including our dependence on dividends from our subsidiary banks; the impact of provisions of Delaware law and the Federal Reserve on our ability to pay dividends and anti-takeover
provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws.      In this report, and other public disclosures of BNY Mellon, words such as
 estimate ,  forecast ,  project ,  anticipate ,  confident ,  target ,  expect ,  intend ,  continue ,  seek ,  believe ,
 plan ,  goal ,  could ,  should ,  may ,  will ,  strategy ,  opportunities ,  trends  and words of similar meaning signify forward-looking statements.
     All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update
any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

2 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
     FORM 10-K INDEX        

PART I      

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

4  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk factors    

8  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved staff comments    

8  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

8  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal proceedings    

9  

Item 4.   
     
     Mine safety disclosures    

9  

PART II      

Item 5.   
     
     Market for the registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity
 securities    

10  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected financial data    

10  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations    

10  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk    

10  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial statements and supplementary data    

10  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial
disclosure    

10  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and procedures    

10  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other information    

11  

PART III      

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, executive officers and corporate governance    

12  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive compensation    

14  

Item 12.   
     
     Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder
matters    

14  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence    

14  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal accounting fees and services    

14  

PART IV      

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits, financial statement schedules     

15  

Signatures    

16  

Index to exhibits    

17  

BNY Mellon 3

Table of Contents  

      PART I    

ITEM 1. BUSINESS    
    Description of Business        The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with $26.2 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $1.4 trillion in assets under
management as of Dec. 31, 2012. For a discussion of our reporting of our assets under custody and/or administration, see  General   Reporting of Assets under Custody and/or Administration  in the MD A section of our Annual Report.
     We divide our businesses into two principal segments, Investment Management and Investment Services. We have an Other segment, which includes
credit-related services, the leasing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our investment securities portfolio), our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited, our equity interest in ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate
overhead.      For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s products and services, see the  Overview ,  Summary of financial
results ,  Fee and other revenue   Foreign exchange and other trading revenue ,  Review of businesses  and  International operations  sections in the MD A section in the Annual Report and Notes 25 and 26
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See  Available Information  on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other
information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.      We were formed as a bank holding company ( BHC ) and
have our executive offices in New York, New York. With its subsidiaries, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.      On July 1, 2007,
The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity (the  merger ).      Our two principal banks are:       

The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, which houses our Investment Services businesses, including Asset

Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services as well as the bank-advised business of Asset Management.      

BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a nationally-chartered bank, which houses our Wealth Management business.
        Our two principal U.S. banks engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and
various securities-related activities.      We have four other U.S. bank and/or trust companies concentrating on trust products and services
across the United States: The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. Most of our asset management businesses,
along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.      Each of our bank and trust companies are
subject to regulation by the applicable banking regulatory authority. The deposits of our U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the extent provided by law.   
  BNY Mellon s branches and subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulatory authorities in addition to the
Federal Reserve. The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV ( BNYMSA ) is the main banking subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon in continental Europe. It is authorized and regulated as a credit institution by the National Bank of Belgium.
BNYMSA has its principal office in Brussels and branches in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Frankfurt, Germany; London, England; the City of Luxembourg, Luxembourg and Paris, France. BNYMSA s activities are in the Investment Services segment
of BNY Mellon with a focus on global custody, asset servicing and collateral management. For additional discussion, see the  MD A   Supervision and Regulation  section in the Annual Report.   
  Information on international operations is presented in the  Net interest revenue ,  Income tax ,  Review of businesses ,
 International operations ,  Consolidated balance sheet review  sections in the MD A section in the Annual Report, Notes 5, 6 and 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial

4 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Statements in the Annual Report and in  Risk Factors   We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally and which may
adversely affect our business , in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       Primary Subsidiaries
      Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2012.   
   Discontinued Operations       As discussed in
Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, BNY Mellon reported results using the discontinued operations method of accounting for 2010. All information in this Form 10-K
for 2010, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.        Supervision and Regulation
       Information on BNY Mellon s supervision and regulation obligations can be found in the  MD A   Supervision and
Regulation  section in the Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this item by reference.        Competition
       BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Investment Management business competes
with asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. We may compete with these firms and companies domestically or
internationally. Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and foreign financial services firms that offer custody services, corporate trust services, clearing services, collateral services, credit services, securities brokerage,
foreign exchange services, derivatives services, depositary receipt services, transfer agent services and cash management services and related products, as well as a wide range of technology service providers, such as financial service data
processing firms. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation,

interest rates, lending limits and customer convenience.      Many of our competitors, with
the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the  MD A   Supervision and Regulation  section in the Annual Report
and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.      In recent years there has been
substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry. Many broad-based financial services firms now have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset
management, which may enhance their competitive position.      As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors
by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover
quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. For additional discussion regarding competition, see  MD A   Risk Factors   We are subject to
intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability  in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.   
    Employees        At Dec. 31, 2012, BNY
Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 49,500 employees.   

BNY Mellon 5

Table of Contents  

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies     
  The SEC s disclosure rules relating to the MD A require that the following statistical disclosures specified in the Securities Act of 1933
Industry Guide 3 and the Exchange Act Industry Guide 3 (together,  Guide 3 ) be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by BHCs.       

I.  
  Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders  Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential     
  Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and  Supplemental
information   Rate/volume analysis  sections in the MD A and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   

II.  
  Investment Portfolio         

A.  
  Book Value of Investments;         

B.  
  Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,         

C.  
  Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders  Equity     
  Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and  Consolidated
balance sheet review   Investment securities  sections in the MD A and in Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   

III.  
  Loan Portfolio         

A.  
  Types of Loans and         

B.  
  Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates        Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans  section in the MD A and Notes 1 and 6 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

C.  
  Risk Elements and         

D.  
  Other Interest-bearing Assets

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the
 Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans  and    Nonperforming assets  and  International operations   Cross-border risk ,    Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece 
sections in the MD A and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

IV.  
  Summary of Loan Loss Experience        Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Critical accounting estimates   Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments  section in the MD A, which portion is
incorporated herein by reference, and below.      When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off.
The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  section in the MD A in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.
     Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management s judgment in determining the level of the reserve
for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the  Risk management   Credit risk  and  Critical accounting estimates  sections in the MD A, Notes 1 and 6
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

V.  
  Deposits        Information required by this section
of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and  Consolidated balance sheet review   Deposits  sections in the MD A and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

VI.  
  Return on Equity and Assets        Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Financial summary  section, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

VII.  
  Short-Term Borrowings     

6 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated
balance sheet review   Short-term borrowings  section in the MD A, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.   
    Replacement Capital Covenants        On
Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with its issuance of  200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities due 2066 (the
 Junior Subordinated Debt Securities ) to Mellon Capital III (the  2006 Trust ) and the issuance by the 2006 Trust of  200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.369% trust preferred securities (the  Preferred
Securities ). Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial s obligations under this Replacement Capital Covenant, and BNY Mellon amended this Replacement Capital Covenant on Sept. 11, 2012. In this section, we refer to this
Replacement Capital Covenant as so amended as the  2006 RCC  and to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the  2006 Securities .   
  BNY Mellon agreed in the 2006 RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed,
called  Covered Debt , that on or before Sept. 5, 2056:       

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the 2006 Securities, with limited exceptions, unless:

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital
guidelines applicable to BHCs; and          

the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash
proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received since Sept. 11, 2012 from issuance of other securities specified in the 2006 RCC that, generally described, based on the standards in effect at the time the 2006 RCC was originally adopted
would have been expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than

the equity credit attributed to the 2006 Securities based on such standards at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and      

BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the 2006 Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the 2006 RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has
elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.      
  On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with (i) the issuance by
Mellon Capital IV (the  2007 Trust ) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or  Normal PCS  (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS,
the  PCS ), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the issuance by Mellon Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 of its 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or  Junior
Notes , and a 1/100   th    interest in a Stock Purchase
Contract under which the 2007 Trust was obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial was obligated to sell, one share of Mellon Financial s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share, which,
pursuant to the merger, became an obligation to purchase Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, $1,000 liquidation preference per share, of BNY Mellon (the  Preferred Stock ). The 2007 Trust sold the Junior Notes in a
remarketing on May 21, 2012 and purchased the Preferred Stock on June 20, 2012. Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial s obligation under this Replacement Capital Covenant, and BNY Mellon amended this Replacement
Capital Covenant on May 8 and Sept. 11, 2012. In this section, we refer to this Replacement Capital Covenant as so amended as the  2007 RCC , to the 2006 RCC and the 2007 RCC collectively as the  RCCs  and to the Preferred
Stock and the PCS collectively as the  2007 Securities .      BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy,
hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed,

BNY Mellon 7

Table of Contents  

called  Covered Debt , that on or before the  Termination Date , as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022):   

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless:      

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital
guidelines applicable to BHCs; and          

the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and
its subsidiaries have received since Sept. 11, 2012 from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on the standards in effect at the time the 2007 RCC was originally adopted would have
been expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.      
  The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCCs as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon s 5.50%
subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be
Covered Debt on the earliest of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series and (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and
after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date. Each RCC includes provisions under which BNY Mellon will then identify a
new series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed to become the Covered Debt benefiting from such RCC.      The full text of each RCC,
as amended and restated, are filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Form 10-K. The description of each RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS    
  The information required by this Item is set forth in the Annual Report under  MD A   Risk Factors , which portion is incorporated
herein by reference.         ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    
  None.   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES       We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs. At a number of the locations described below, we are not currently occupying all of the space under our
control. Where commercially reasonable and to the extent it is not needed for future expansion, we have leased or subleased, or seek to lease or sublease, this excess space. The following is a description of our principal properties, as of Dec. 31,
2012:       New York City properties       We own a 49-story office building located at One Wall Street that serves as our corporate headquarters. We also own our 23-story operations center building located at 101 Barclay Street, and lease the
land on which that building sits under a ground lease expiring in 2080. In addition, we lease approximately 372,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 200 Park Avenue, approximately 318,000 square feet of space in an office
building located at 2 Hanson Place in Brooklyn and approximately 76,000 square feet of space in an office building at 32 Old Slip. The New York City properties are utilized by all of our business segments.   
   Pittsburgh properties       We lease under a
long-term, triple net lease the entire 54-story office building known as BNY Mellon Center located at 500 Grant Street. In addition, we own a 42-story office building located at 525 William Penn Place and a 14-story office building located at 500
Ross Street business. The Pittsburgh properties are utilized by all of our business segments.       Boston area properties    
  We lease approximately 373,000 square feet of space in a Boston office building located at One Boston Place, 201 Washington Street. We also lease under a
triple net lease the entire 3-story office building located at 135 Santilli Highway in Everett, Massachusetts. Additionally, we lease approximately 304,000 square feet at 4400

8 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Computer Drive in Westborough, Massachusetts. The Boston properties are utilized by all of our business segments.       Jersey City properties       We lease approximately 485,000 square feet of space in an office
building located at 95 Christopher Columbus Drive, Jersey City, New Jersey, primarily utilized by our Investment Services segment.       United
Kingdom properties       We have a number of leased office locations in London (including approximately 234,000 square feet of space at BNY
Mellon Centre at 160-162 Queen Victoria Street and approximately 152,000 square feet of space at The Tower at One Canada Square at Canary Wharf), as well as other leased office locations throughout the United Kingdom, including locations in
Manchester, Poole, Leeds, Brentwood, Liverpool, Swindon and Edinburgh. The UK properties are utilized by all of our business segments.   
   India properties       We lease approximately
511,000 square feet of space in Pune, India and approximately 433,000 square feet in Chennai, India. The India properties are utilized by all of our business segments.       Other properties       We also lease (and in a few instances own) office space and other
facilities at numerous other locations both within and outside of the U.S., including properties located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Florida, Delaware, Texas, California, Illinois, Washington and Tennessee;
Brussels, Belgium; Wexford, Dublin and Cork, Ireland; Luxembourg; Frankfurt and Dusseldorf, Germany; Wroclaw, Poland; Singapore; Hong Kong and Shanghai, China; Seoul, Korea; Tokyo, Japan; Sydney, Australia and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS       The information required by this Item is set forth in the  Legal proceedings  section in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portion is
incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES    
  Not applicable.

BNY Mellon 9

Table of Contents  

      PART II    

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
ticker symbol BK. Our depositary shares, each representing 1/4,000   th    interest in a share of our Series C noncumulative perpetual preferred stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK PrC. Mellon Capital IV s 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK/P. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock and our common stock dividend for each full
quarterly period during fiscal 2011 and 2012 is set forth in the  Selected Quarterly Data  section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. As of Dec. 31, 2012, there were 31,486 holders of record of our common
stock.      For additional information about dividends and a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our receipt of funds from our
regulated subsidiaries and our payment of dividends to stockholders, see the  Liquidity and dividends  section in the MD A in the Annual Report, Notes 16 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and
 MD A   Supervision and Regulation   Capital Planning   Payment of Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Other Capital Distributions  in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
  Additional information about our common stock, including information about share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2012 and existing Board of
Directors authorization with respect to purchases by us of our common stock, and other equity securities is provided in the  Capital   Stock repurchase program  section of the MD A in the Annual Report and Note 16 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA       The information required by this Item is set forth in the  Financial Summary  and in  Summary of financial results  in the MD A in the Annual Report and Notes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual

Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.        
 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       The information required by
this Item is set forth in the MD A and Notes 3, 13, 15, 20, 23 and 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    
  The information required by this Item is set forth in the  Critical accounting estimates ,  Off-balance sheet arrangements ,
 Risk management ,  Trading activities and risk management  and  Asset/liability management  sections in the MD A in the Annual Report and  Derivative financial instruments  under Note 1 and Notes 21, 23
and 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.        
 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA       Reference is made to Item 15 on page 15 hereof for a detailed
listing of the items under Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, Exhibits and Other Financial Data, which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       Not applicable.         ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
       Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of the Disclosure Committee, has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate
and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and

10 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our SEC reports is timely recorded, processed, summarized and reported and that information required to
be disclosed by BNY Mellon is accumulated and communicated to BNY Mellon s management to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure. In addition, our ethics hotline can also be used by employees and others for the anonymous
communication of concerns about financial controls or reporting matters. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or
overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.      As of Dec. 31, 2012, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective, except for our processes and procedures for reporting Assets under Custody and/or Administration ( AUC/A ), discussed below.      In light of the errors discussed in our Annual Report, the evaluation included a review of processes and procedures for reporting AUC/A. See  General   Reporting of Assets under Custody and/or
Administration  in the MD A section of our Annual Report. We have determined that our disclosure controls and procedures over the preparation of these metrics were ineffective as of Dec. 31, 2012. Subsequent to Dec. 31,

2012, we have remediated our disclosure controls and procedures over the preparation of these metrics. The errors relating to AUC/A are unrelated to our internal control over financial reporting.
     As a result of these errors, we are seeking to streamline and enhance the data collection processes and systems relating to AUC/A. We also
have commenced a review of the process for reporting other information in our public filings and have begun and will continue to correct and enhance our disclosure policies and procedures going forward.   
   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting       In the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. There have not been any changes in our internal controls over
financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter of 2012 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
   Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
  See  Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
on pages 119 and 120 of the Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION       Not applicable.

BNY Mellon 11

Table of Contents  

      PART III    

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
      The information required by this Item is included below and in the Proxy in the  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  section, the  Other Information   Stockholder Proposals for 2014 Annual Meeting  section, the introductory paragraph to the  Election of Directors  section and the following portions of the  Election of
Directors  section:  Director Qualifications ,  Information About the Nominees  and the following portions of the  Corporate Governance  section:  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Audit
Committee  and    Committees and Committee Charters  and  Compensation of Directors , which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       CODE OF ETHICS       We have adopted a code of ethics for our employees which we refer to as our
Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries, including our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) and Controller (principal
accounting officer). The Code of Conduct is posted on our website at  www.bnymellon.com/ethics/codeofconduct.pdf . We also have a code of ethics for our directors, which we refer to as our Directors  Code of Conduct. The Directors 
Code of Conduct applies to all directors of BNY Mellon. The Directors  Code of Conduct is posted on our website at  www.bnymellon.com/ governance/directorscodeofconduct.pdf . Both the Code of Conduct and the Directors  Code of Conduct
are available in print, without charge, to any stockholder who requests a copy. Requests should be sent to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Office of the Secretary, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286. We intend to disclose on our website
any amendments to or waiver of the Code of Conduct relating to executive officers (including the officers specified above) and will disclose any amendments to or waivers of the Directors  Code of Conduct relating to our directors.   
   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT    
  The name and age of, and positions and offices held by, each executive officer of BNY Mellon as of

February 28, 2013, together with the offices held by each such person during the last five years, are listed below and on the following two pages. The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
Officer and President each hold office for the year for which the Board of Directors was elected and until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor or until his or her earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. All
other executive officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. No executive officer has a family relationship to any other executive officer or director or nominee for director.   

12 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Mr. Hassell also serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From July 1, 2007 to December 31,
2012, Mr. Hassell served as President of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hassell served as President of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since at least 2007.

(2)  
  Ms. Peetz also serves as President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From July 1, 2007 to December 31, 2012, Ms. Peetz served as
Chief Executive Officer of Financial Markets and Treasury Services and Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peetz served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New
York since at least 2007.         

(3)  
  Mr. Arledge also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Investment Management and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From 2008 to
November 2010, Mr. Arledge served as Chief Investment Officer for fixed income portfolios at BlackRock, Inc., an investment management firm. Since at least 2007 to 2008, Mr. Arledge served as the global head of the fixed income division of
the corporate and investment banking group in Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company.         

(4)  
  Mr. Gibbons also serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Mr. Gibbons served as Chief Risk
Officer of BNY Mellon from July 1, 2007 to July 1, 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Gibbons served as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since at
least 2007.         

(5)  
  Mr. Keaney also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Investment Services and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From September 2010
to December 31, 2012, Mr. Keaney served as Chief Executive Officer of Asset Servicing and Vice Chairman of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From July 1, 2007 to September 2010, Mr. Keaney served as
Co-Chief Executive Officer of Asset Servicing and Senior Executive Vice President of BNY Mellon, The Bank of

New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Keaney served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since at least 2007.     

(6)  
  Mr. Palermo also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Global Client Management and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the
merger, Mr. Palermo served as Vice Chairman of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2007.         

(7)  
  Mr. Rogan also serves as Chief Risk Officer of BNY Mellon and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Rogan
served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since at least 2007.         

(8)  
  Mr. Brueckner also serves as Chief of Staff of BNY Mellon and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A.
From May 2007 to December 2011, Mr. Brueckner served as Chairman of Pershing LLC, and as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC from July 1, 2007 to October 2010. Prior to the merger, Mr. Brueckner served as Senior Executive Vice
President of The Bank of New York since at least 2007.         

(9)  
  Mr. Shea also serves as President of Investment Services, Head of the Broker Dealer and Advisor Services Group, Head of Client Service Delivery and Client
Technology Solutions of BNY Mellon, Chairman of Pershing LLC and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From October 2010 to December 2012, Mr. Shea served as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC.
Mr. Shea served as Chief Operating Officer of Pershing LLC from at least 2007 to October 2010.         

(10)  
  Ms. Sherburne also serves as Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From 2009 to May 2010,
Ms. Sherburne conducted a private legal practice. Ms. Sherburne served as General Counsel for Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company, from 2008 to 2009 and as General Counsel for the Global Consumer Group of Citigroup Inc., a
financial services company, from at least 2007 to 2008.     

BNY Mellon 13

Table of Contents  

(11)  
  Mr. Park also serves as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. and Controller of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon,
N.A. Mr. Park served as Managing Director of The Bank of New York Mellon beginning with the merger and ending in May 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Park served as Managing Director of The Bank of New York since at least 2007.
       The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, N.A. and Pershing LLC, as referenced in the foregoing footnotes, are subsidiaries of
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.         ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION    
  The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following sections:  Compensation and Risk ,  Compensation of
Directors ,  Executive Compensation ,  Executive Compensation   Compensation Discussion and Analysis ,  Corporate Governance   Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Committees and Committee
Charters ,  Corporate Governance   Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Human Resources and Compensation Committee , and the  Executive Compensation   Report of the Human Resources and Compensation
Committee , which are incorporated herein by reference. The information incorporated herein by reference to the  Executive Compensation   Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee  is deemed furnished hereunder.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following sections:
 Information on Stock Ownership , and  Executive Compensation   Equity Compensation Plans Table , which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following sections:  Other Information   Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy ,  Corporate
Governance   Director Independence ,  Corporate Governance   Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Audit Committee;   Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee;   Human Resources and Compensation
Committee , which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
SERVICES       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following section:  Ratification of the Selection of
KPMG LLP , which is incorporated herein by reference.   

14 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV    

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES    

(a)  
     
  The financial statements, schedules and exhibits required for this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference as indicated in the following index. Page numbers
refer to pages of the Annual Report for items (1)(2) Financial Statements and Schedules and (c) Other Financial Data.  

(1)(2)  
      
   Financial Statements and Schedules   

Page No.   

Consolidated Income Statement  

121 and 122  

Consolidated Comprehensive  

Income Statement  

123  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  

124  

Consolidated Statement of  

Cash Flows  

125  

Consolidated Statement of  

Changes in Equity  

126 through 127  

Notes to Consolidated  

Financial Statements  

128 through 198  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

199  

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)  

112  

(3)  
      
   Exhibits   

See (b) below.  

(b)  
     
  The exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits on pages 17 through 28 hereof are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this
Item.  

(c)  
     
   Other Financial Data   

None.  

BNY Mellon 15

Table of Contents  

       SIGNATURES     
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, BNY Mellon has duly caused this Annual Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

By:  
     
  /s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

Gerald L. Hassell   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

DATED: February 28, 2013   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of BNY Mellon and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

Signature   

Capacities    

By:  
     
    /s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

Director and Principal Executive Officer   

Gerald L. Hassell   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   

Principal Financial Officer   

Thomas P. Gibbons   

Chief Financial Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ John A. Park   

Principal Accounting Officer   

John A. Park   

Controller   

Ruth E. Bruch; Nicholas M. Donofrio;  

Directors   
 
  Edmund F. Kelly; Richard J. Kogan;  

Michael J. Kowalski; John A. Luke, Jr.;  

Mark A. Nordenberg; Catherine A. Rein;  

William C. Richardson; Samuel C. Scott III;     and Wesley W. von Schack   

By:  
     
    /s/ Craig T. Beazer   

DATED: February 28, 2013   

Craig T. Beazer   

Attorney-in-fact   

16 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

      INDEX TO EXHIBITS    
      Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
SEC, BNY Mellon has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or
parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are
subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in BNY Mellon s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different
from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe BNY Mellon s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.   

BNY Mellon 17

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

18 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

BNY Mellon 19

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

20 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

BNY Mellon 21

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

22 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

BNY Mellon 23

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

24 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

BNY Mellon 25

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

26 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

10.80  
      
  Stipulation of Settlement.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on June 7, 2012, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.81*  
      
  Wavier Agreement between Gerald L. Hassell and the Company, dated December 11, 2012.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-35651) as filed with the Commission on December 17, 2012, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.82*  
      
  2012 Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

10.83*  
      
  2012 Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

10.84*  
      
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Defined Contribution IRC 401(a)(17) Plan  
      
  Filed herewith.   

12.1  
      
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends  
      
  Filed herewith.   

13.1  
      
  All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference. The remaining portions are furnished for the
information of the SEC and are not  filed  as part of this filing.  
      
  Filed and furnished herewith.   

21.1  
      
  Primary subsidiaries of the Company.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

23.1  
      
  Consent of KPMG LLP.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31.1  
      
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

32.1  
      
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

32.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   
 
         BNY Mellon 27

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

99.1  
      
  Mellon Capital III Amended and Restated Replacement Capital Covenant, dated September 11, 2012.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

99.2  
      
  Mellon Capital IV Amended and Restated Replacement Capital Covenant, dated September 11, 2012.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.INS  
      
  XBRL Instance Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.PRE  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         28 BNY Mellon   

<EX-10.82>
 2
 d448545dex1082.htm
 EX-10.82

EX-10.82 

Exhibit 10.82       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
Long-Term Incentive Plan        FORM OF NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT    
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Corporation ) and
                      , a key employee (the  Optionee ) of the Corporation, in consideration of the covenants and agreements herein
contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:      SECTION 1:  Grant    
  1.1  Grant of Option . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement (this
 Agreement ) and to the terms of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Corporation hereby grants to the Optionee a stock option (the  Option ) to purchase
               shares of the Corporation s common stock, par value $.01 (the  Common Stock ) from the Corporation at a price of
$         per share (the  Option Price ), which is the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by the Option on (the  Grant Date ). Capitalized terms not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.      1.2  Acceptance . The Optionee accepts the grant of the
Option confirmed hereby, and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, as this Agreement and the Plan may be amended from time to time;  provided, however,  that no alteration, amendment, revocation or
termination of the Agreement or the Plan shall, without the written consent of the Optionee, adversely affect the rights of the Optionee with respect to the Option.      SECTION 2:  Vesting, Exercise and Expiration       2.1  Vesting . Subject
to Sections 3 and 4.8 of this Agreement, the Option will vest and become exercisable in annual installments over a four-year vesting period according to the following vesting schedule:   
     
1   /   4    of the Option will vest upon the 1   st    anniversary of the Grant Date;    
  an additional
   1   /   4    of the Option will vest upon the 2   nd    anniversary of the Grant Date;       an additional    1   /   4    of the Option will vest upon the 3   rd    anniversary of the Grant Date; and       an additional    1   /   4    of the Option will vest upon the 4   th    anniversary of the Grant Date;        provided that  the Optionee is employed by the
Corporation on such anniversary, with all fractional shares, if any, rounded up and vesting as whole shares upon the earlier vesting date(s).  Corporation,  when used herein with reference to employment of the Optionee, shall include any
Affiliate of the Corporation. To the extent vested, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part from the date of vesting through and including the Option Expiration Date, as defined in Section 2.3 hereof, subject to any limits provided in
Section 3.   

2.2  Exercise . This Option shall be exercised by the Optionee by delivering to the
Executive Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human Resources Department (i) this Agreement signed by the Optionee, (ii) a written (including electronic) notification specifying the number of shares which the Optionee then
desires to purchase, (iii) a check payable to the order of the Corporation, which may include cash forwarded through the broker or other agent-sponsored exercise or financing program approved by the Corporation, and/or shares, or certification
of ownership for shares, of Common Stock equal in value to the aggregate Option Price of such shares and/or an instruction from the Optionee directing the Corporation to withhold shares of Common Stock otherwise receivable upon exercise of this
Option (subject to any restrictions regarding prior ownership of such shares or an equivalent number of shares imposed by the Corporation), and (iv) a stock power executed in blank for any shares of Common Stock delivered or withheld pursuant
to clause (iii) hereof. Shares of Common Stock surrendered, certified or withheld in exercise of this Option shall be subject to terms and conditions imposed by the Committee and shall be valued as of the date, and by the means, prescribed by
the Corporation s procedures in effect at the time of such exercise and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. As soon as practicable after each exercise of this Option and compliance by the Optionee with all applicable conditions, the
Corporation will credit the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, which the Optionee is entitled to receive upon such exercise under the provisions of this Agreement to a book-entry account in the Optionee s name.   
  2.3  Expiration . The Option shall expire and cease to be exercisable on the earlier of (a) either (i) the last trading
day immediately preceding the ten year anniversary of the Grant Date or, if earlier, (ii) the date of cancellation provided for in Section 4.8 (the earlier of (i) and (ii) referred to as the  Option Expiration Date ) or
(b) the expiration date provided for in Section 3.      SECTION 3:  Termination of Employment, Disability and
Performance Adjustment       3.1  Termination of Employment .   
  (a)  General . If the Optionee s employment with the Corporation is terminated, this Option will expire on the Termination Date
except as provided in Sections 3.2 or 3.3 hereof.      (b)  Meaning of Terms . As used in this Agreement,
(i)  Termination Date  shall mean the date upon which the Optionee ceases performing services as an employee of the Corporation, without regard to accrued vacation, severance or other benefits or the characterization thereof on the
payroll records of the Corporation; and (ii)  Payroll Separation Date  shall mean the last day for which the Optionee receives salary continuance or separation/transition pay from the Corporation, if any, without regard to any period
during which receipt of payments may be delayed to avoid imposition of additional taxes under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). If the Optionee does not receive salary continuance or
separation/transition pay from the Corporation, the Payroll Separation Date will be the same date as the Termination Date.   
         -2-

3.2  Specified Terminations of Employment .   
  (a)  Termination Without Cause/With Cause . If the Optionee s employment is terminated by the Corporation without
 Cause,  as defined in Section 3.2(f) below, the unvested portion of the Option will expire on the Termination Date   except   in situations where vesting would have occurred but for (i) a delay pursuant to
Section 3.5 below; or (ii) the fact that a determination has not yet been made as to whether a performance adjustment pursuant to Section 3.4 below is required, in which cases the unvested portion will vest in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement provided that the Committee determines the effect, if any, of a performance adjustment, and the Optionee will have thirty days following the Termination Date (or later vesting date) to exercise the portion of the Option that
was vested on the Termination Date (or later vesting date);  provided, however,  if the Optionee is entitled to separation/transition pay from the Corporation, (i) the Option will continue to vest as set forth in Section 2.1 hereof
through the Payroll Separation Date, subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, (ii) the vested portion of the Option may be exercised for one year following the Payroll Separation Date and (iii) the unvested
portion of the Option will expire on the Payroll Separation Date;  provided further,  in any case the Option may not extend beyond the Option Expiration Date. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, upon the
effective date of a termination of the Optionee s employment with the Corporation for Cause, the Option will immediately expire without consideration or further action being required of the Corporation.   
  (b)  Termination following Satisfaction of Age Criteria :     
  (i)  Age 55 until 60 . If the Payroll Separation Date occurs on or after the Optionee s attainment of age 55 but prior to age
60, the Option will continue to vest as set forth in Section 2.1 hereof through the Payroll Separation Date, subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, the unvested portion will expire on the Payroll Separation Date,
and the Optionee will have three years from the Payroll Separation Date to exercise the portion of the Option that was vested as of such date (or, if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).   
  (ii)  Age 60 until 65 . If the Payroll Separation Date occurs on or after the Optionee s attainment of age 60 but prior to age
65, the Option will continue to vest as set forth in Section 2.1 hereof during the five year period following the Payroll Separation Date, subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, the unvested portion will expire
at the end of such period and the Optionee will have five years following the Payroll Separation Date to exercise the Option to the extent it is or becomes vested during such period (or, if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).   
  (iii)  Age 65 and over . If the Payroll Separation Date (or, if earlier, the Termination Date) occurs on or after the
Optionee s attainment of age 65, this Option will automatically become exercisable upon the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.4 is determined for the calendar year
immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date;  provided, however , if the Optionee has not attained age 65 on the Termination Date but attains age 65 before the Payroll Separation Date, the Option will automatically become exercisable
upon the next scheduled vesting date following the Optionee s attainment of age 65 or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.4 is   
         -3-

determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date, in each case subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4. The Optionee will have
seven years following the Payroll Separation Date to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).      (c)  Sale of Business Unit or Subsidiary . Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, if the Optionee s employment with the Corporation is terminated by the
Corporation due to the sale of a business unit or subsidiary of the Corporation by which the Optionee is employed, and the Optionee is not otherwise entitled to transition/separation pay from the Corporation, any then unvested Option shall vest upon
the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.4 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date, on a pro-rata basis equal to (i) the
number of whole and fractional months from the Grant Date through the Termination Date (without regard to any delayed vesting under Section 3.5 below), divided by (ii) 48 months, with the result multiplied by (iii) the total number of
the shares subject to the Option, with that result reduced by (iv) the number of shares subject to the Option that were already vested as of the Termination Date. Any portion of the Option that will not vest pursuant to the pro-rata calculation
in the prior sentence will expire on the Termination Date. In such case, the Optionee will have two years following the Termination Date to exercise the vested portion of the Option (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).   
  (d)  Death . Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, if the Optionee shall die while employed by the
Corporation, or within a period following termination of employment during which this Option remains exercisable, the then remaining unvested portion of this Option shall automatically become exercisable upon the next scheduled vesting date or, if
later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.4 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date, and the executor or administrator of the Optionee s estate or the person or
persons to whom the Optionee shall have transferred such right by Will or by the laws of descent and distribution will have two years following the date of death to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option
Expiration Date).      (e)  Change in Control . Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, if the
Optionee s employment is terminated by the Corporation without  Cause , as defined in Section 3.2(f) below, within two years after a Change in Control, as defined in Section 10.1(a) of the Plan, occurring after the Grant
Date, this Option shall automatically become exercisable upon the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.4 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next
scheduled vesting date, and the Optionee will have one year following the later of the Payroll Separation Date or such next scheduled vesting date to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or in each case, if earlier, until the Option
Expiration Date).      (f)  Cause Definition . Solely for purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean when the
Corporation or any Affiliate determines, in its sole discretion, that:      (i) the Optionee has been convicted of, or has entered
into a pretrial diversion or entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere (plea of no contest) to a crime or offense constituting a   
         -4-

felony (or its equivalent under applicable laws outside the United States), or to any other crime or offense involving moral turpitude, dishonesty, fraud, breach of trust, money laundering, or
any other offense that may preclude the Optionee from being employed with a financial institution;      (ii) the Optionee is
grossly negligent in the performance of his or her duties or has failed to perform in any material respect the duties of his or her employment, including, without limitation, failure to comply with any lawful directive from the Corporation, other
than by reason of incapacity due to disability or from any permitted leave of absence required by law;      (iii) the Optionee has
violated the Corporation s Code of Conduct or any of the policies of the Corporation governing the conduct of the Corporation s business or his or her employment;      (iv) the Optionee has engaged in any misconduct which has the effect of being materially injurious to the Corporation, including, but not limited to, its reputation;   
  (v) the Optionee has engaged in an act of fraud or dishonesty, including, but not limited to, taking or failing to take actions intending
to result in personal gain; or      (vi) if the Optionee is employed outside the United States and there are circumstances other
than the above that warrant the immediate termination of his or her employment without any notice or payment in accordance with the terms of his or her employment agreement.        [(g)  Special Termination Right . If the Optionee s employment is terminated pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Special Termination Right, as such term is defined
in                     , the unvested portion of the Option will vest and become immediately exercisable upon the Termination Date, except with
respect to       % of the unvested portion subject to forfeiture as set forth in Section 3.4 which shall remain unvested until the application of the next performance adjustment has been determined, and will continue to
be outstanding and in effect for five years following the Termination Date (or, if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).]         (h)  Limitation . During any interim period in which Optionee s entitlement to separation/transition pay is not yet established Optionee shall not be permitted to exercise this Option in cases
where the exercise or vesting thereof is dependent upon whether the Optionee is so entitled.      3.3  Disability . Subject
to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.4, this Option shall automatically vest and become exercisable upon the next scheduled vesting date following the first day for which the Optionee receives long-term disability benefits
under the Corporation s long-term disability plan or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.4 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date, and the Optionee will
have two years following such date to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).   
         -5-

3.4  Performance Adjustment . If as of the end of any single calendar year during which
any portion of the Option remains unvested (and without regard to the Optionee s continued employment during such year), either (i) the Corporation s Return on Tangible Common Equity is less than       %, or
(ii) if the Optionee is, or was at any time on or after the Grant Date, directly responsible for a business unit and such business unit incurs a Net Operating Loss for such year, then       % of any unvested portion of
this Option (applied uniformly to all unvested tranches) shall be forfeited and shall terminate[;  provided, however , in the case of vesting pursuant to Section 3.2(g) the amount forfeited shall be the remaining unvested portion]. For the
purposes of this Section,  Return on Tangible Common Equity  shall mean GAAP earnings divided by the annual average tangible common equity, excluding write-offs of intangibles and goodwill, and  Net Operating Loss  shall mean
negative operating income, excluding write-offs of intangibles and goodwill. Prior to the determination of the performance adjustment for the calendar year, no unvested portion of the Option may vest or become exercisable [except as provided in
Section 3.2(g)]. Performance adjustments shall be determined in good faith by the Committee, and following a Change in Control or other corporate-type event may include, without limitation, determinations with respect to the performance
calculation and the applicable time period for measuring performance, so as to preserve as nearly as practicable the intended effect of this Section.      3.5  Delayed Vesting . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, any vesting under this Agreement which would otherwise occur within one year from the Grant Date will be delayed until
the one year anniversary of the Grant Date except in the case of vesting that may occur due to death, disability or as may be required by prior contractual obligation.      SECTION 4:  Miscellaneous       4.1  No Right to Employment . Neither the
grant of the Option nor anything else contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be deemed to limit or restrict the right of the Corporation to terminate the Optionee s employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.
     4.2  Nontransferable . This Option may not be transferred except by the Optionee upon his or her death. No other
assignment or transfer of this Option, or of the rights represented thereby, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise shall be permitted, but immediately upon any such assignment or transfer this Option shall terminate and
become of no further effect. During the Optionee s life this Option shall be exercisable only by the Optionee, and after the Optionee s death the Option shall remain subject to any restrictions on exercise and otherwise as if held by the
Optionee. Whenever the word  Optionee  is used in any provision of this Option under circumstances where the provision should logically be construed to apply to the executors, the administrators or other persons to whom this Option may be
transferred, the word  Optionee  shall be deemed to include such person or persons.      4.3  Adjustment . This
Option is subject to adjustment as provided in Article IX of the Plan.      4.4  Compliance with Laws . Notwithstanding
any other provision hereof, the Optionee hereby agrees that he or she will not exercise the Option, and that the Corporation will not be   
         -6-

obligated to issue any shares to the Optionee hereunder, if the exercise thereof or the issuance of such shares shall constitute a violation by the Optionee or the Corporation of any applicable
laws, regulations or relevant regulatory requirements or interpretations in effect from time to time ( Applicable Laws ). Any determination in this connection by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Corporation shall
in no event be obliged to register any securities pursuant to the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (as the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action in order to cause the exercise of the Option or the issuance of
shares pursuant thereto to comply with any Applicable Laws. For the avoidance of doubt, the Optionee understands and agrees that if any payment or other obligation under of arising from this Agreement or the Plan is in conflict with or is restricted
by any Applicable Laws, then the Corporation may reduce, revoke, cancel, clawback or impose different terms and conditions to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, in its sole discretion, to effect such compliance.   
  4.5  Plan Governs . This is the Award Agreement referred to in Section 2.3(b) of the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency
between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. A copy of the Plan can be found on the Corporation s equity award website or may be obtained from the Executive Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human
Resources Department. No amount of income received by an Optionee pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement plan, insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Corporation.
     4.6  Nonstatutory Stock Option . The parties hereto agree that the Option granted hereby is not, and should not be
construed to be, an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code.      4.7  Tax Withholding . In each case where
the Optionee exercises this Option in whole or in part, the Corporation will notify the Optionee of the amount of withholding tax, if any, required under federal and, where applicable, state and local law, and the Optionee shall, forthwith upon the
receipt of such notice, remit the required amount to the Corporation or, in accordance with such regulations as the Committee may prescribe, elect to have the withholding obligation satisfied in whole or in part by the Corporation withholding full
shares of Common Stock and crediting them against the withholding obligation. The Corporation s obligation to issue or credit shares to the Optionee is contingent upon the Optionee s satisfaction of an amount sufficient to satisfy any
federal, state, local or other withholding tax requirements.      4.8  Forfeiture and Repayment . If, directly or indirectly:
     (a) during the course of the Optionee s employment with the Corporation or, if longer, the period during which this
Option is outstanding, the Optionee engages in conduct or it is discovered that the Optionee engaged in conduct that is materially adverse to the interests of the Corporation, including failures to comply with the Corporation s rules or
regulations, fraud, or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities;      (b) during the course of the
Optionee s employment with the Corporation and, unless the Optionee has post-termination obligations or duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates pursuant to an individual agreement set forth in subsection (d) below, for one year
thereafter, the Optionee engages in solicitation and/or diversion of customers or employees;   
         -7-

(c) during the course of the Optionee s employment with the Corporation, the Optionee
engages in competition with the Corporation or its Affiliates;      (d) following termination of the Optionee s
employment with the Corporation for any reason, with or without cause, the Optionee violates any post-termination obligations or duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates or any agreement with the Corporation or its Affiliates, including
without limitation, any employment agreement, confidentiality agreement or other agreement restricting post-employment conduct; or      (e) any compensation that the Corporation has promised or paid to Optionee is required to be forfeited and/or repaid to the Corporation pursuant to applicable regulatory requirements;   
  the Corporation may cancel all or any portion of this Option with respect to the shares not yet exercised and/or require repayment of any shares (or the
value thereof) or amounts which were acquired from exercise of the Option. The Corporation shall have sole discretion to determine what constitutes grounds for forfeiture and/or repayment under this Section 4.8, and, in such event, the portion
of this award that shall be cancelled and the sums or amounts that shall be repaid.      4.9  Governing Law . This Agreement
shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, other than any choice of law rules calling for the application of laws of another jurisdiction. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or
indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or this Agreement, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of New York and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the
courts of New York County, New York, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern District of New York, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.   
  4.10  Severability . The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal
or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.      4.11
 Waiver . The Optionee acknowledges that a waiver by the Corporation of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach of this Agreement.
  
         -8-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the Grant Date.

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

[Name/Title]   

OPTIONEE   

[Name]   

-9-

</EX-10.82>

<EX-10.83>
 3
 d448545dex1083.htm
 EX-10.83

EX-10.83 

Exhibit 10.83       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
Long-Term Incentive Plan        FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT    
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Corporation ) and
                      , a key employee (the  Grantee ) of the Corporation, in consideration of the covenants and agreements herein
contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:      SECTION 1:  Restricted Stock Unit Award 
     1.1  Award . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this
 Agreement ) and to the terms of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Corporation hereby awards to the Grantee
                   restricted stock units ( RSUs ), each representing a share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $.01 (the  Common
Stock ), on                        (the  Grant Date ), subject to adjustment as provided in Article IX of the Plan. Each of
the RSUs is denominated as a single share of Common Stock with a value equal to one share of Common Stock. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.   
  1.2  Acceptance . The Grantee accepts the award confirmed hereby, and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of this
Agreement and the Plan, as this Agreement and the Plan may be amended from time to time;  provided, however,  that no alteration, amendment, revocation or termination of this Agreement or the Plan shall, without the written consent of the
Grantee, adversely affect the rights of the Grantee with respect to the award.      1.3  Dividend Equivalent Rights; No
Voting . During the period prior to vesting, the Grantee will have the right to receive dividend equivalents with respect to the RSUs, payable in cash on the first regularly scheduled applicable payroll date in each of February, May, August and
November of each calendar year, corresponding to the amount of any dividend paid by the Corporation for the immediately preceding dividend payment date. In the event that the Grantee receives any additional RSUs as an adjustment with respect to the
award, such additional RSUs will be subject to the same restrictions as if granted under this Agreement as of the Grant Date and paid pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement. During the period prior to vesting, the Grantee shall not be entitled
to vote any shares represented by the RSUs.  Corporation,  when used herein with reference to employment of the Grantee, shall include any Affiliate of the Corporation.   
  SECTION 2:  Restrictions on Transfer       2.1  Nontransferable . No RSUs awarded hereunder or any interest therein may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise disposed of (any such action being hereinafter referred to as a
 Disposition ) by the Grantee until such time as this restriction lapses with respect to such RSUs pursuant to Section 3 hereof, and any attempt to make such a Disposition shall be null and void and result in the immediate forfeiture
and return to the Corporation without consideration of any RSUs as to which restrictions on Disposition shall at such time be in effect.   

SECTION 3:  
   Vesting, Performance Requirements, Forfeiture,   Termination of Employment and Disability      
  3.1  Vesting Period, Required Tier 1 Common Capital Ratio and Forfeiture .   
  (a)  Vesting . Subject to Sections 3.1(b), 3.2, 3.3, 3.6 and 5.6 hereof, if the Grantee remains continuously employed by the
Corporation through the close of business on the applicable anniversary of the Grant Date, the RSUs shall vest and the restrictions on Disposition of the RSUs set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse in accordance with the following
schedule:   
     
1   /   3    of the RSUs will vest and the restrictions thereon shall lapse on
the 1   st    anniversary of the Grant Date;    
     
1   /   3    of the RSUs will vest and the restrictions thereon shall lapse on
the 2   nd    anniversary of the Grant Date; and

1   /   3    of the RSUs will vest and the restrictions thereon shall lapse on
the 3   rd    anniversary of the Grant Date;    
   provided that  all fractional RSUs, if any, are rounded up and vest as whole RSUs upon the earlier vesting date(s).   
  (b)  Required Tier 1 Common Capital Ratio . As promptly as practicable following the end of calendar year
         , the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the  Committee ) shall determine in accordance with the terms of this Agreement whether
the Corporation s Tier 1 Common Capital Ratio (as hereinafter described) at                  was greater than or equal to     % (the
 Performance Requirement ). If the Committee determines that the Performance Requirement has not been satisfied, all RSUs shall be forfeited and returned to the Corporation without further action being required of the Corporation. For the
purposes of this Agreement,  Tier 1 Common Capital Ratio  shall be as defined by Basel 1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 3.2 or 3.3 below, under no circumstances will the RSUs vest or the restrictions on Disposition
set forth in Section 2.1 hereof lapse unless and until the Committee determines that the Performance Requirement has been satisfied.      (c)  Forfeiture Upon Termination of Employment . Subject to Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of this Agreement, upon the effective date of a termination of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation
occurring prior to the lapse of restrictions on Disposition pursuant to this Section 3.1, all RSUs then subject to restrictions on Disposition shall immediately be forfeited and returned to the Corporation without consideration or further
action being required of the Corporation   except   in situations where vesting would have occurred but for (i) a delay pursuant to Section 3.4 below; or (ii) the fact that a determination has not yet been made as to whether
the Performance Requirement has been satisfied or a performance adjustment pursuant to Section 3.6 below is required, in which cases the restrictions on Disposition shall lapse in accordance with the terms of this Agreement provided that the
Committee determines that the Performance Requirement has been satisfied and the effect, if any, of a performance adjustment. The effective date of the Grantee s termination shall be the date upon which the Grantee ceases to perform services as
an employee of the Corporation, without regard to accrued vacation, severance or other benefits or the characterization thereof on the payroll records of the Corporation.   
         - 2 -

(d)  Forfeiture Upon Termination of Employment for Cause . Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained in this Agreement, upon the effective date of a termination of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation for  Cause,  as defined in Section 3.2(f) below, occurring prior to the lapse of restrictions on
Disposition pursuant to this Section 3.1 or pursuant to Sections 3.2 or 3.3 hereof, all RSUs then subject to restrictions on Disposition shall immediately be forfeited and returned to the Corporation without consideration or further action
being required of the Corporation.      3.2  Specified Terminations of Employment .   
  (a)  Death . If Grantee s employment with the Corporation is terminated by reason of the Grantee s death the restrictions
on Disposition of the RSUs set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse and such RSUs shall vest, subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.6, upon the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance
adjustment as set forth in Section 3.6 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date.      (b)  Sale of Business Unit or Subsidiary.  Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.6, if the Grantee s employment terminates by reason of the Grantee s
termination by the Corporation due to a sale of a business unit or subsidiary of the Corporation by which the Grantee is employed and the Grantee is not otherwise entitled to transition/separation pay from the Corporation, the restriction on
Disposition of the RSUs set forth in Section 2.1 shall lapse and the RSUs shall vest upon the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.6 is determined for the calendar year
immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date.      (c)  Age   Service Rule, Termination Providing
Transition/Separation Pay.  Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.6, if the Grantee s employment terminates by reason of (i) a termination on or after the Grantee s attainment of age 55 but prior to
age 60 with ten years of credited employment with the Corporation, (ii) a termination on or after the Grantee s attainment of age 60, or (iii) a termination providing transition/separation pay from the Corporation, the restriction on
Disposition of the RSUs set forth in Section 2.1 shall lapse and the RSUs shall vest on the dates provided in Section 3.1(a), contingent upon the Grantee s compliance with the covenants provided in Section 3.5 hereof. If Grantee
fails to comply with such covenants, the RSUs shall immediately be forfeited.      (d)  Other Age   Service Rule. 
Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.6, if the Grantee s employment with the Corporation terminates on or after the Grantee s attainment of age 55 but prior to age 60 and the Grantee has less than ten years
of credited employment with the Corporation, the restrictions on Disposition of the RSUs set forth in Section 2.1 shall lapse and the RSUs shall vest on the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth
in Section 3.6 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date, contingent upon the Grantee s compliance with the covenants provided in Section 3.5 hereof, upon a number of RSUs equal to
(i) the number of whole and fractional months from the Grant Date through the date upon which the Grantee s employment is terminated, divided by (ii) 36, with the result multiplied by (iii) the number of RSUs awarded hereunder,
with that result reduced by (iv) the number of RSUs awarded hereunder upon which the restrictions on Disposition had already lapsed as of such date of termination. In such   
         - 3 -

case, any fractional RSUs shall be rounded up and any portion of the RSUs awarded hereunder that will not vest pursuant to the pro-rata calculation in the prior sentence shall be forfeited
immediately upon the Grantee s termination of employment. If Grantee fails to comply with such covenants, the RSUs shall immediately be forfeited.      (e)  Change in Control . Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.6, if the Grantee s employment is terminated by the Corporation without  Cause,  as defined
in Section 3.2(f) below, within two years after a Change in Control, as defined in Section 10.1(a) of the Plan, occurring after the Grant Date, the restrictions on Disposition of the RSUs set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse
and the RSUs shall vest upon the next scheduled vesting date or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.6 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date.   
  (f)  Cause Definition . Solely for purposes of this Agreement,  Cause  shall mean when the Corporation or any Affiliate
determines, in its sole discretion, that:      (i) the Grantee has been convicted of, or has entered into a pretrial diversion or
entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere (plea of no contest) to a crime or offense constituting a felony (or its equivalent under applicable laws outside the United States), or to any other crime or offense involving moral turpitude, dishonesty,
fraud, breach of trust, money laundering, or any other offense that may preclude the Grantee from being employed with a financial institution;      (ii) the Grantee is grossly negligent in the performance of his or her duties or has failed to perform in any material respect the duties of his or her employment, including, without limitation, failure
to comply with any lawful directive from the Corporation, other than by reason of incapacity due to disability or from any permitted leave of absence required by law;      (iii) the Grantee has violated the Corporation s Code of Conduct or any of the policies of the Corporation governing the conduct of the Corporation s business or his or her employment;
     (iv) the Grantee has engaged in any misconduct which has the effect of being materially injurious to the Corporation,
including, but not limited to, its reputation;      (v) the Grantee has engaged in an act of fraud or dishonesty, including, but
not limited to, taking or failing to take actions intending to result in personal gain; or      (vi) if the Grantee is employed
outside the United States and there are circumstances other than the above that warrant the immediate termination of his or her employment without any notice or payment in accordance with the terms of his or her employment agreement.   
  3.3  Disability . Subject to adjustment and limitation as set forth in Section 3.6, the restrictions on Disposition of the RSUs
set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse and the RSUs shall vest upon the next scheduled vesting date following the first day for which the Grantee receives long-term disability benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan
or, if later, the date the performance adjustment set forth in Section 3.6 is determined for the calendar year immediately preceding such next scheduled vesting date.   
         - 4 -

3.4  Delayed Vesting . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3,
any vesting under this Agreement which would otherwise occur within one year from the Grant Date will be delayed until the one year anniversary of the Grant Date except in the case of vesting that may occur due to death, disability or as may be
required by prior written contractual obligation.      3.5  Covenants . Grantee agrees to provide the Corporation with 90
days  advance written notice of any voluntary termination of Grantee s employment with the Corporation. In the case of those terminations for which vesting is contingent upon compliance with this section, Grantee agrees that for the period
commencing on the effective date of Grantee s termination of employment until the one-year anniversary thereof ( provided that  the covenants shall not apply to any vested RSU tranches), Grantee will not directly or indirectly
(a) solicit or attempt to solicit or induce, directly or indirectly, (i) any current or prospective client of the Corporation or an Affiliate known to Grantee, to initiate or continue a client relationship with Grantee other than with the
Corporation or Affiliate or to terminate or reduce its client relationship with the Corporation or Affiliate, or (ii) any employee of the Corporation or an Affiliate, to terminate such employee s employment relationship with the
Corporation or Affiliate in order to enter into a similar relationship with Grantee, or any other person or any entity, or (b) compete against the Corporation or an Affiliate in any capacity, whether as principal, agent, independent contractor,
employee or otherwise, with any financial services industry company located within 1,000 miles of Grantee s primary location of employment with the Corporation; provided, however, that the ownership of up to 5% of any class of the outstanding
securities of any company the securities of which are listed on a national securities exchange (a  Public Company ) (including, for purposes of calculating such percentage, the voting securities owned by persons acting in concert with such
person or otherwise constituting a  group  for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) shall not be deemed a violation hereof provided that Grantee does not have an active role in the management of such
Public Company. Grantee agrees to advise any person or entity that seeks to employ Grantee of the terms of these covenants.      3.6  Performance Adjustment . If as of the end of any single calendar year during which any of the RSUs remain unvested (and without regard to the Grantee s continued employment during such
year), either (i) the Corporation s Return on Tangible Common Equity, is less than   %, or (ii) if the Grantee is, or was at any time on or after the Grant Date, directly responsible for a business unit and such business unit
incurs a Net Operating Loss for such year, then   % of any unvested portion of the RSUs (applied uniformly to all unvested tranches) shall be forfeited and shall terminate. For purposes of this Section,  Return on Tangible Common
Equity  shall mean GAAP earnings divided by the annual average tangible common equity, excluding write-offs of intangibles and goodwill, and  Net Operating Loss  shall mean negative operating income, excluding write-offs of
intangibles and goodwill. Prior to the determination of the performance adjustment for the calendar year, no unvested portion of the RSUs may vest. Performance adjustments shall be made within 2   1   /   2    months following the end of the calendar year to which they pertain. Performance adjustments shall be determined in good faith by the Committee, and following a Change in Control or other corporate-type
event may include, without limitation, determinations with respect to the performance calculation and the applicable time period for measuring performance, so as to preserve as nearly as practicable the intended effect of this Section.
   
         - 5 -

SECTION 4:  Distribution and Settlement    
    4.1  Time of Distribution . Vested RSUs converted into shares of Common Stock shall be distributed on the vesting date(s)
provided herein and in all events no later than two and one-half months following the end of the calendar year in which vesting occurs;    provided, however   , if Grantee is a  specified employee  under Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, upon separation from service and such distribution is conditioned upon a separation from service and not compensation Grantee could receive without separating from service, then distribution shall not
be made until the first day following the six-month anniversary of the Grantee s separation from service (or upon earlier death).         4.2  Form of Settlement . The RSUs shall be settled in the form of Common Stock delivered in book-entry form.      SECTION 5:  Miscellaneous       5.1  No Right to Employment . Neither the
award of RSUs nor anything else contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be deemed to limit or restrict the right of the Corporation to terminate the Grantee s employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.   
  5.2  Compliance with Laws . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Grantee hereby agrees to take any action, and
consents to the taking of any action by the Corporation, with respect to the RSUs awarded hereunder necessary to achieve compliance with applicable laws, regulations or relevant regulatory requirements or interpretations in effect from time to time
( Applicable Laws ). Any determination in this connection by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Corporation shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 (as
the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action in order to cause the delivery of shares in book-entry form or otherwise therefore to comply with any Applicable Laws. For the avoidance of doubt, the Grantee
understands and agrees that if any payment or other obligation under or arising from this Agreement, including without limitation dividend equivalent rights, or the Plan is in conflict with or is restricted by any Applicable Laws, then the
Corporation may reduce, revoke, cancel, clawback or impose different terms and conditions to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, in its sole discretion, to effect such compliance. If the Corporation determines that it is necessary or
appropriate for any payments under this Agreement to be delayed in order to avoid additional tax, interest and or penalties under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ), then the payments would not be made before the
date which is the first day following the six (6) month anniversary of the date of the Grantee s termination of employment (or upon earlier death). If and to the extent required for purposes of compliance with Section 409A of the
Code, (i) the definitions and requirements for Disability and Change in Control contained herein shall be interpreted in a manner compliant with the comparable definitions of Section 409A of the Code and (ii) if and to the extent that
any specified payment date included within Section 3.2 or 3.3 hereof may not be applied in conformance with Section 409A of the Code then, subject to the foregoing sentence, payments will be made as provided in Section 4.1 and 3.1(a).
     5.3  Plan Governs . This is the Award Agreement referred to in Section 2.3(b) of the Plan. In the event of any
inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall   
         - 6 -

govern. A copy of the Plan can be found on the Corporation s equity award website or may be obtained from the Executive Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human Resources
Department. No amount of income received by the Grantee pursuant to the RSUs shall be considered compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement plan, insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Corporation.   
  5.4  Liability for Breach . The Grantee hereby indemnifies the Corporation and holds it harmless from and against any and all
damages or liabilities incurred by the Corporation (including liabilities for attorneys  fees and disbursements) arising out of any breach by the Grantee of this Agreement, including, without limitation, any attempted Disposition in violation
of Section 2.1 hereof.      5.5  Tax Withholding . The Grantee shall be advised by the Corporation as to the amount of
any federal, state, local or foreign income or employment taxes required to be withheld on the compensation income resulting from the award of, or lapse of restrictions on, the RSUs. The Grantee shall pay any taxes required to be withheld directly
to the Corporation in cash upon request; provided, however, that where the restrictions on Disposition set forth in Section 2.1 hereof have lapsed the Grantee may satisfy such obligation in whole or in part by requesting the Corporation in
writing to withhold from the Common Stock otherwise deliverable to the Grantee or by delivering to the Corporation shares of its Common Stock having a Fair Market Value, on the date the restrictions lapse equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum
statutory withholding tax obligation to be so satisfied, in accordance with such rules as the Committee may prescribe. If the Grantee does not make such request, the Corporation will automatically net unless it has previously requested payment in
cash. The Corporation s obligation to issue or credit shares to the Grantee is contingent upon the Grantee s satisfaction of an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, local or other withholding tax requirements, notwithstanding
the lapse of the restrictions thereon.      5.6  Forfeiture and Repayment . If, directly or indirectly:   
  (a) during the course of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation, the Grantee engages in conduct or it is discovered that the
Grantee engaged in conduct that is materially adverse to the interests of the Corporation, including failures to comply with the Corporation s rules or regulations, fraud, or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities;
     (b) during the course of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation and, unless the Grantee has post-termination
obligations or duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates pursuant to an individual agreement set forth in subsection (d) below, for one year thereafter, the Grantee engages in solicitation and/or diversion of customers or employees;
     (c) during the course of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation, the Grantee engages in competition with the
Corporation or its Affiliates;      (d) following termination of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation for any
reason, with or without cause, the Grantee violates any post-termination obligations or duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates or any agreement with the Corporation or its Affiliates, including without limitation, any employment agreement,
confidentiality agreement or other agreement restricting post-employment conduct; or   
         - 7 -

(e) any compensation that the Corporation has promised or paid to Grantee is required to be
forfeited and/or repaid to the Corporation pursuant to applicable regulatory requirements;      the Corporation may cancel all or any portion of
this award with respect to the RSUs subject to restrictions on Disposition and/or require repayment of any shares (or the value thereof) or amounts which were acquired from the award. The Corporation shall have sole discretion to determine what
constitutes grounds for forfeiture and/or repayment under this Section 5.6, and, in such event, the portion of this award that shall be cancelled and the sums or amounts that shall be repaid.   
  5.7  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, other than
any choice of law provisions calling for the application of laws of another jurisdiction. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises directly or indirectly from the relationship of the parties evidenced by this grant or this Agreement, the
parties hereby submit to and consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of New York and agree that such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of New York County, New York, or the federal courts for the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and no other courts, where this grant is made and/or to be performed.      5.8  Severability .
The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable.   
  5.9  Waiver . The Grantee acknowledges that a waiver by the Corporation of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be
construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach of this Agreement.      IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the Grant Date.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

[Name/Title]   

GRANTEE   

By:  

[Name]   

- 8 -

</EX-10.83>

<EX-10.84>
 4
 d448545dex1084.htm
 EX-10.84

EX-10.84 

Exhibit 10.84        The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation        Defined Contribution
       IRC SECTION 401(a)(17)        PLAN    

PURPOSE      The purpose of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Defined Contribution IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan (the   Plan  ) is to provide deferred compensation on an unfunded basis for a
select group of management or highly compensated employees. The deferred compensation provided hereunder is intended to supplement the benefits provided under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan (the   401(k)
Plan  ) to such employees whose Retirement Contributions under the 401(k) Plan are limited due to the dollar maximums imposed on  qualified  plans by Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(  Code  ).      The Corporation hereby declares that its intention that the Plan be operated in compliance with the American Jobs
Creation Act of 2004 and Section 409A of the Code. It is also the intention of the Corporation that the Plan be an  employee pension benefit plan  as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended (  ERISA  ) and that the Plan be the type of plan described in Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of Title I of ERISA. The Benefits Administration Committee (  Committee  ) or a successor committee
designated by the Corporation shall be the administrator responsible for fulfilling the duties and responsibilities imposed upon  administrators  of plans subject to Parts 1 and 5 of Title 1 of ERISA.   
   
    The following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section. Capitalized terms used in this Plan which are not otherwise defined in this Section 1.00 shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the 401(k) Plan to which this Plan relates.   
  1.01   Beneficiary   shall have the same meaning as defined in Article I, Definitions, of the 401(k) Plan, as such definition may be
amended from time to time and shall mean the same person or persons designated or deemed designated as the Participant s Beneficiary under the 401(k) Plan.      1.02   Corporation   means The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and the sponsor of this Plan.      1.03   Deemed Deposit Date   shall mean the recordkeeping date as of which a Supplemental Retirement Contribution is deemed credited to an Eligible Employee s Notional Account. Unless
otherwise provided herein or by the Corporation, the Deemed Deposit Date for any Plan Year shall mean the date as of which Retirement Contributions are made to the 401(k) Plan for the same Plan Year; which date will generally occur in the first
quarter of the Plan Year following the Plan Year to which the Retirement Contribution relates.      1.04   Disability   or
  Disabled   means where, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twenty-four (24) months,
either: (a) the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity or (b) the Participant is receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan
covering employees of his or her employer; in each instance as determined by the Committee, in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code and Regulation Section   
         - 2 -

1.409A-3(g)(4) promulgated thereunder, on the basis of written information supplied by the Participant.      1.05   Effective Date   of this Plan shall be the date of its adoption as evidenced by the execution date of this Plan document.      1.06   Eligible Compensation   shall have the same meaning as defined in Article I, Definitions, of the 401(k) Plan, as such definition may be amended from time to time; provided however;
that, for purposes of this Plan, such Eligible Compensation in excess of 401(a)(17) Limit shall NOT be disregarded.      1.07   Eligible
Employee   shall be determined each Plan Year and shall mean any person eligible to receive an allocation of the Retirement Contribution provided under Article III, Contributions and Vesting, of the 401(k) Plan, with respect to such Plan
Year.      1.08   Employer   shall mean the Corporation and each entity controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
     1.09   401(a)(17) Limit   means the compensation limit described in Code Section 401(a)(17) in effect for such Plan Year.
     1.10   401(k) Plan   means The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan as amended and restated effective as of
January 1, 2011, as amended.      1.11   Notional Account   means the recordkeeping device used by the Corporation to account
for the notional amounts to be credited to the Participant under the Plan as described in Section 3.02.      1.12   Notional
Investment Options   except as otherwise determined by the BIC, means those certain investment options   other than the option to invest in securities of the Corporation   available as of any time of reference under the 401(k) Plan
(excluding any such options which may only be invested in through the so-called  self-directed account  feature) which will be used to determine the notional earnings and losses to be credited to a Participant s Notional Account. To
the extent not already provided to Participants as a result of their being eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan, the Committee shall provide Participants with a description of the Notional Investment Options available hereunder from time to
time.      1.13   Participant   means any Eligible Employee eligible to receive a contribution with respect to any Plan Year in
accordance with the provisions of Article II and/or who is credited with a Notional Account under the Plan.      1.14   Plan  
means this The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Defined Contribution IRC Section 401(a)(17) Plan.      1.15   Plan Year  
means the calendar year.   
         - 3 -

1.16   Retirement   means the Participant s Separation from Service, other than by
reason of death, on or after the date (  Retirement Date  ) on which the Participant has attained age sixty-five (65).      1.17
  Retirement Contributions   means those certain Employer Retirement Contributions described in Article III, Contributions and Vesting, of the 401(k) Plan, as such definition may be amended from time to time.   
  1.18   Service   and   Years of Service   shall have the same meaning   and be calculated in the same manner   as
service and years of service are defined and calculated under Article I, Definitions, of the 401(k) Plan, as such definition and calculation methods may be amended from time to time.      1.19   Valuation Date   means the last day of each month, or such other dates as the Committee may determine in its discretion; which may be either more or less frequent, for the valuation
of Participants  Notional Accounts.       

2.00  
  ELIGIBILITY TO RECEIVE SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTION        (a) Effective as of the Effective Date, all Eligible Employees who are credited with a Retirement Contribution under the 401(k) Plan for any Plan Year beginning before or after the Effective Date shall be
eligible to receive a Supplemental Retirement Contribution corresponding to the same Plan Year to which the Retirement Contribution relates.      (b) Each Eligible Employee described in (a) shall have a Supplemental Retirement Contribution allocated to the Eligible Employee s Notional Account under this Plan as of the Deemed Deposit Date
which corresponds to the date the related Retirement Contribution was credited to the Eligible Employee under the 401(k) Plan for the same Plan Year.       

3.00  
  SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTION        3.01 Amount of Supplemental Retirement Contribution      In respect of each Eligible Employee for any
Plan Year, the Corporation agrees to credit to the Participant s Notional Account a notional amount (the   Supplemental Retirement Contribution  ) for such Plan Year equal to:   
  (a) The maximum Retirement Contribution to which the Participant would have been entitled under the 401(k) Plan for the same Plan Year
but for the application of the 401(a)(17) Limit.      LESS:   
  (b) The actual Retirement Contribution credited to the Participant under the 401(k) Plan.   
         - 4 -

No Supplemental Retirement Contribution will be credited to the Participant s Notional Account for any
Plan Year for which a Retirement Contribution was not made on behalf of the Participant under the 401(k) Plan.      3.02
Establishment of Notional Accounts.       Notional Account  means the record-keeping device used by the Corporation to measure and
determine the amounts to be paid to a Participant under the Plan. Separate Notional Accounts will be established for each Participant and as may be otherwise required. Notional Accounts shall be deemed to be credited with Notional gains or losses as
provided in Section 3.06 from the date a Supplemental Retirement Contribution is credited in accordance with Section 3.03 through the Valuation Date.      3.03 Crediting of Supplemental Retirement Contributions; Earnings and Taxes      The Supplemental
Retirement Contribution to which a Participant is entitled shall be credited to the Participant s Notional Accounts as of the Deemed Deposit Date. To the extent the Supplemental Retirement Contribution is not credited on the same date as the
Retirement Contribution to which it relates, it shall be adjusted to reflect earnings and losses based on the Notional Investment Options elected (or deemed elected) for the period beginning on the Deemed Deposit Date and ending on the crediting
date. Any withholding of taxes or other amounts with respect to deferred compensation that is elected by the Participant and/or required by Federal, state or local law on account of such deemed crediting shall be withheld from the Participant s
Eligible Compensation and no amounts shall be withheld from the Supplemental Retirement Contribution deemed credited to the Participant hereunder.      3.04 Investment of Notional Account.      (a)  Amounts Subject to Participant
Direction . Subject to (b), all amounts credited to a Participant s Notional Account shall be notionally invested at the direction (or deemed direction) of the Participant in one (1) or more of the Notional Investment Options. Except as
otherwise provided in (b) with respect to a Participant s initial investment election, Participant investment elections under the 401(k) Plan shall not be applied to the corresponding Notional Investment Options under this Plan.
     (b)  Initial Investments . Until such time as a Participant makes his investment elections on a form provided by or
acceptable to the Plan Manager, such Participant s Notional Account shall be notionally invested in the same Notional Investment Options as are the Participant s Retirement Contributions actually invested under the 401(k) Plan determined
as of the date the Participant first became a Participant under this Plan;  provided, however , that to the extent any such Participant s Retirement Contributions are invested through the Self-Directed Account or in the Employer Stock
Fund, the portion of the Participant s Notional Account that would otherwise be invested in such options shall be notionally invested in the Notional Investment Option which corresponds to the Qualified Default Investment Option under the
401(k) Plan;  provided, further , that to the extent any such Participant has no investment elections in effect under the 401(k) Plan, the Participant s entire Notional Account shall be invested in the Notional Investment Option which
corresponds to such Qualified Default Investment Option   
         - 5 -

(collectively, the   Default Investments  ). By way of clarification and not limitation, a Participant s Default Investments will not be affected by any election to change his
or her separate investment elections under the 401(k) until such time, if ever, as the Participant makes an affirmative election to change his or her Default Investments under this Plan in accordance with Section 3.04(c).   
  (c)  Change in Investment Elections . A Participant may elect to change the manner in which: (i) future Supplemental Retirement
Contributions and/or (ii) amounts previously credited to the Participant s Notional Account; are notionally invested by timely submitting the change to the Plan Manager on a form provided by or acceptable to the Plan Manager. Such changes
may be made daily in accordance with the administrative rules established by the Plan Manager and, to the extent administratively practicable, shall be effective as of the Market Close on the Trade Date as such terms are defined in Article IV,
Investment and Valuation of Accounts, of the 401(k) Plan.      (d)  Limitations on Investments . Notwithstanding anything
contained in this Plan to the contrary, a Participant s investment directions with respect to Notional Investment Options shall be subject to the same suspensions, limitations, terminations or restrictions applicable to similar actual
investment directions under the 401(k) Plan; including, by way of illustration and not limitation, suspensions, limitations, terminations or restrictions which: (i) limit the number of investment directions to a particular Notional Investment
Option over a stated period of time; (ii) establish daily trading deadlines for receipt of Participant directions to a particular Notional Investment Option (or all Notional Investment Options) earlier than the deadline applicable to investment
directions to other Notional Investment Options under the Plan or to the deadline applicable to the trading in the Notional Investment Option outside the Plan; (iii) impose fees, payable by the Participant to the affected Notional Investment
Option, on redemptions of investments in a particular option which occur within a stated period of time; (iv) require the temporary or permanent manual processing of investment directions of Participants determined to have violated any
established and communicated trading restriction or limitation; and (v) require the temporary or permanent termination of a Participant s entitlement to make investments in a particular Notional Investment Option.   
  3.05 Valuation of Notional Investment Options.      A Participant s interest in each Notional Investment Option shall be represented by  shares  of participation. The value of each Notional Investment Option and the net asset value of a
share in each Notional Investment Option shall be determined in the same manner as such option and share values are determined for the corresponding investment options under the 401(k) Plan. The Plan Manager shall be entitled to rely on such
valuations of any Notional Investment Options provided by an investment manager, the sponsor of an investment fund included within the Notional Investment Options or any other person, provided that such reliance is consistent with the provisions of
applicable law.      3.06 Valuation of Notional Accounts.      A Participant s Notional Account reflects his interest in each Notional Investment Option. After determining the share values of each Notional Investment Option in accordance with Section
  
         - 6 -

3.05, each Notional Investment Option held in the Participant s Notional Account shall be: (a) credited with shares to reflect the sum of any Supplemental Retirement Contributions,
dividends, fund transfers or other increments invested in such Option and (b) debited with shares to reflect the sum of any forfeitures, fund transfers, or other decrements to such Option; since the prior Valuation Date. All such credits and
debits shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article IV, Investment and Valuation of Accounts, of the 401(k) Plan. The value of a Participant s Notional Account as of any time of reference shall be the aggregate value of
the shares of such Notional Investment Options so credited to the Participant s Account.      3.07 Vesting of Notional
Accounts.      A Participant s interest in amounts credited to his Notional Account shall fully vest upon the Participant s completion
of three (3) Years of Service; provided, however, that such Participant shall become fully vested with respect to such amounts if, while an employee of the Corporation, he attains his Retirement Date, incurs a Disability, or dies. For purposes
of determining Years of Service under the preceding sentence, if a Participant who is not vested in his Notional Account incurs a Break in Service and he is later reemployed as an employee, the Service to which he was entitled before the Break in
Service shall be restored to him effective as of his Employment Commencement Date. If a Participant who is not vested in his Notional Account terminates employment with the Corporation and is not later reemployed as an employee, his Notional Account
shall be forfeited as of the Valuation Date which coincides with or next follows the date on which the Participant incurs five (5) consecutive one (1) year Breaks in Service (as defined in Article I, Definitions, of the 401(k) Plan). If,
after the Participant s termination of employment from all members of the Controlled Group, the Participant receives a distribution of the entire vested portion of his Accrued Benefit and he is later reemployed prior to incurring five
(5) consecutive one (1) year Breaks in Service, any forfeited amount of his Notional Account shall be restored.   
  3.08 Statement of Notional Account.      The Corporation shall submit to each Participant periodic statements setting forth the balance to the credit of the Notional Account maintained for the Participant.   
  3.09 Payment of Notional Account      (a)  Payment Events . A Participant s Notional Account shall become payable upon the first to occur of a Participant s Retirement, death, Disability or other Separation from Service from
the Corporation and all members of the Controlled Group and without regard to whether the Participant elects to commence his benefit under the 401(k) Plan. By way of clarification and not limitation, a Participant s Notional Account shall not
be available for loans, hardship withdrawals or any other form of withdrawal or distribution not described in the prior sentence.      (b)  Form of Payment . A Participant s Notional Account shall be paid in the form of single lump sum payment.      (c)  Time of Payment . Subject to (d), a Participant s Notional Account shall be paid as soon as administratively possible on or after the first day of the month following the
  
         - 7 -

occurrence of a payment event described in (a); provided, however, that such Account shall be paid in the same taxable year if the payment event occurs prior to December 1   st   .   
  (d)  Compliance of Plan with Section 409A . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in (c) or in any other provision of
this Plan, if a Participant is a  specified employee  as determined pursuant to Section 409A of the Code (  Section 409A  ) as of the date of such Participant s  separation from service  (within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h)) and if any payment of a Participant s Notional Account under this Plan both (i) constitutes a  deferral of compensation  within the meaning of Section 409A and (ii) cannot be
paid in the manner otherwise provided without subjecting the Participant to  additional tax , interest or penalties under Section 409A, then any such payment that is payable during the first six months following the Participant s
 separation from service  shall be paid or provided to the Participant in a cash lump-sum as soon as administratively possible on or after the first business day of the seventh calendar month following the month in which the
Participant s  separation from service  occurs or, if earlier, at the Participant s death.     (e)  Value of
Notional Account . The value of a Participant s Notional Account to be distributed in accordance with this Section 3.09 shall be determined as of the Valuation immediately preceding the payment date determined in accordance with this
Section.      (f)  Source of Payment . The Corporation shall make any and all distributions pursuant to this Plan in cash out
of its general assets.      (g)  Withholding and Payroll Taxes . The Corporation shall withhold from payments made hereunder
any taxes required to be withheld from such payments under Federal, state or local law.      (h)  No Acceleration . To assure
avoidance of payment acceleration which would be impermissible and subject to penalty under Code Section 409A, when payment is to be made in or for a particular month, payment cannot be made earlier than that month.   
   
    4.01
 Amendment .      The Corporation shall have the right to amend this Plan at any time; provided, however, that no amendment shall directly or
indirectly deprive any Participant or Beneficiary of the amount accrued to the Participant s Notional Account as of the date of the amendment. Notwithstanding anything in the preceding sentence to the contrary, the Committee shall have the
power to amend the Plan to the extent authorized by Section 8.02.      4.02  Termination .   
  The Corporation shall have the right to partially or completely terminate the Plan if, in its judgment, the tax, accounting or other effects of the
continuation of the Plan or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of the Corporation. The Corporation may also determine to provide for payouts to Participants in connection with such partial or complete termination,
provided such payouts are consistent with Code Section 409A.   
         - 8 -

The Corporation shall,
except as otherwise provided hereunder, pay all amounts payable hereunder only to the person or persons entitled thereto hereunder, and all such payments shall be made directly into the hands of each such person or persons and not into the hands of
any other person or corporation whatsoever, so that said payments may not be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of any such designated person or persons, or taken in execution by attachment or garnishment or by any other legal or
equitable proceedings, nor shall any such designated person or persons have any right to alienate, arbitrate, execute, pledge, encumber, or assign any such payments or the benefits or proceeds thereof. If the person entitled to receive payment be a
minor, or a person of unsound mind, whether or not adjudicated incompetent, the Corporation, upon direction of the Committee, may make such payments to such person or persons, corporation or corporations as may be, or be acting as, parent or legal
or natural guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind. The signed receipt of such person or corporation shall be a full and complete discharge to the Corporation for any such payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may assign
and/or accelerate the payment of a Participant s vested Notional Account balance to an individual other than the Participant as may be necessary to comply with a  qualified domestic relations order  as defined by and under the terms
provided in Code Section 414(p), Code Section 409A and other applicable authorities.       
    The Corporation shall be
responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan. At its discretion, the Corporation may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Corporation or the Committee may approve, for the purpose of providing for the
payment of such benefits. Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof shall be subject to the claims of the Corporation s creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust,
the Corporation shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by, the Corporation.   
   
    7.01 Applicable
Law      This Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, except to the extent that the laws
of the State of New York shall have been specifically preempted by federal law.      7.02 Liability of Employees, Officers and
Directors of the Corporation      No past, present or future employees, officers or directors of the Corporation shall be personally liable to any
Participant, beneficiary or other person under any provision of this Plan.      7.03 Ineligible Participant   
  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Plan to the contrary, if any Participant is determined not to be a  management or highly compensated
employee  within the meaning of   
         - 9 -

ERISA or regulations thereunder with respect to any Plan Year, then such Participant will not be eligible to receive a Supplemental Retirement Contribution under this Plan for any such Plan Year.
     7.04 General Condition      Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to give any Participant or the Participant s surviving spouse or beneficiary any interest in this Plan or in any other specific property of the Corporation or
any right except to receive such distributions as are expressly provided for in this Plan. Establishment of the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Corporation or any of its affiliates.
     7.05 Forfeitures to the Corporation      In case the Corporation is unable within three (3) years after payment is due to a Participant, or within three (3) years after payment is due to the Beneficiary or estate of a deceased
Participant, to make such payment to him or her or his or her Beneficiary, executor or administrator because it cannot ascertain his or her whereabouts or the identity or whereabouts of his or her Beneficiary, executor or administrator by mailing to
the last known address shown on the Employer s or the Corporation s records, and neither he, his or her Beneficiary, nor his or her executor or administrator had made written claim therefore before the expiration of the aforesaid time
limit, then in such case, the amount due shall be forfeited to the Corporation.      7.06 Corporate Successors   
  The Plan shall not be automatically terminated by a transfer or sale of assets of the Corporation or by the merger or consolidation of the Corporation
into or with any other corporation or other entity, but the Plan shall be continued after such sale, merger or consolidation only if and to the extent that the transferee, purchaser or successor entity, agrees to continue the Plan. In the event that
the Plan is not continued by the transferee, purchaser or successor entity, then the Plan shall terminate subject to the provisions of Section 4.00.       
    8.01
Administrator.      Except as hereinafter provided, the Committee shall be responsible for the administrative responsibilities hereinafter
described with respect to the Plan. Whenever any action is required or permitted to be taken in the administration of the Plan, the Committee shall take such action unless the Committee s power is expressly limited herein or by operation of
law. The Committee shall be the Plan  Administrator  (as such term is defined in Section 3(16)(A) of ERISA). The Committee may delegate its duties and responsibilities as it, in its sole discretion, deems necessary or appropriate to
the execution of such duties and responsibilities. The Committee as a whole or any of its members may serve in more than one capacity with respect to the Plan.   
         - 10 -

8.02 Powers and Duties.      The Committee, or its delegates, shall maintain and keep (or cause to be maintained and kept) such records as are necessary for the efficient operation of the Plan or as may be required by any applicable
law, regulation, or ruling and shall provide for the preparation and filing of such forms, reports, information, and documents as may be required to be filed with any governmental agency or department and with the Plan s Participants and/or
other Beneficiaries.      Except to the extent expressly reserved to the Corporation or an Employer, the Committee shall have all powers necessary
to carry out the administrative provisions of the Plan and to satisfy the requirements of any applicable law or laws. These powers shall include, by way of illustration and not limitation, the exclusive powers and discretionary authority necessary
those duties and responsibilities described in  The Bank of New York Mellon Benefits Administrative Committee Charter and Summary of Operations  approved by the Appointing and Monitoring Committee July 21, 2008 and adopted by the
Committee on October 16, 2008, as may be amended from time to time (the   BAC Charter  ).      Without intending to limit the
generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the power to amend the Plan, in whole or in part, in order to comply with applicable law; provided, however, that no such amendment may increase the duties and obligations of any Employer without
the consent of the affected Employer(s).      8.03 Procedures.      The Committee shall be organized and conduct its business with respect to the Plan in accordance with the organizational and procedural rules set forth in the BAC Charter.   
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any member of the Committee shall be a Participant hereunder, then in any matters affecting any member of the Committee
in his or her individual capacity as a Participant hereunder, separate and apart from his or her status as a member of the group of Participants, such interested member shall have no authority to vote in the determination of such matters as a member
of the Committee, but the Committee shall determine such matter as if said interested member were not a member of the Committee; provided, however, that this shall not be deemed to take from said interested member any of his or her rights hereunder
as a Participant.      8.04 Establishment of Rules.      The Committee shall have specific authority in its sole discretion to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan related to its powers and duties, and to the extent that the terms of the Plan are
incomplete, the Committee shall have authority to establish such rules or regulations related to its powers and duties as it may deem necessary and proper to carry out the intent of the Corporation as to the purposes of the Plan.   
  8.05 Limitation of Liability.   
  The members of the Committee, and any officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation or any Employer, shall not incur any liability individually or on
behalf of any other individuals or on   
         - 11 -

behalf of the Corporation or any Employer for any act, or failure to act, made in good faith in relation to the Plan. No bond or other security shall be required of any such individual solely on
account of any such individual s power to direct the Employer to make the payments required hereunder.       
    Members of the
Committee shall serve without compensation for their services as such. Expenses incurred by members of the Committee in the performance of their duties as herein provided, and the compensation and expenses of persons retained or employed by the
Committee for services rendered in connection with the Plan shall, upon approval by the Committee, be paid or reimbursed by the Corporation.      8.07 Removal and Resignation.      Any member of the Committee may resign and the Corporation may
remove any member of the Committee in accordance with the procedures established by the BAC Charter. The Committee shall remain fully operative pending the filling of any vacancies, the remaining Committee members having full authority to administer
the Plan.      8.08 Claims Procedures.      The right of any Participant or Beneficiary to receive a benefit hereunder and the amount of such benefit shall be determined in accordance with the procedures for determination of benefit claims
established and maintained by the Committee in compliance with the requirements of Section 503 of ERISA; which separate procedures, entitled Procedures for Determination of Benefit Claims, are incorporated herein by this reference.   
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Plan to be executed this  20th  day of  December , 2012.   

ATTEST:  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

By:  
     
    /s/ Lisa B. Peters    
 
  Name:  

Name:  
     
  Lisa B. Peters   

Title:  

Title:  
     
  Chief Human Resources Officer   
 
         - 12 -

</EX-10.84>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 d448545dex121.htm
 EX-12.1

EX-12.1 

Exhibit 12.1        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES        AND PREFERRED
STOCK DIVIDENDS        The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation    

(a)   
   The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

(b)   
   Dividends were paid in 2012 on the Series A and Series C preferred stock, which were issued in 2012. Series B preferred stock was issued in 2008, but not registered.
As such, dividends paid on the Series B preferred stock in 2009 and 2008 are not included in the table above. The Series B preferred stock was repurchased in 2009.      

(c)   
   Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $2,209 million.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 6
 d448545dex131.htm
 EX-13.1

EX-13.1 

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 13.1         FINANCIAL  SECTION         THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
CORPORATION        2012 Annual Report        Table of Contents       

Page   

Financial Summary     

2  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations:     

Results of Operations:    

General    

4  

Overview    

5  

Key 2012 and subsequent events    

5  

Summary of financial results    

7  

Fee and other revenue    

9  

Net interest revenue    

13  

Noninterest expense    

16  

Income taxes    

18  

Review of businesses    

18  

International operations    

28  

Critical accounting estimates    

33  

Consolidated balance sheet review    

40  

Liquidity and dividends    

51  

Commitments and obligations    

56  

Off-balance sheet arrangements    

56  

Capital    

57  

Trading activities and risk management    

61  

Foreign exchange and other trading    

62  

Asset/liability management    

63  

Risk Management    

65  

Risk Factors    

71  

Supervision and Regulation    

88  

Recent Accounting Developments    

101  

Business Continuity    

105  

Supplemental Information (unaudited):    

Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures (unaudited)    

106  

Rate/volume analysis (unaudited)    

111  

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    

112  

Forward-looking Statements    

113  

Glossary    

115  

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     

119  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

120  

Corporate Information    

Inside back cover  

Table of Contents  

      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    

(a)   
   Includes an after-tax redemption charge of $196.5 million related to the Series B preferred stock.      

(b)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      

(c)   
   Diluted earnings per common share for 2009 was calculated using average basic shares. Adding back the dilutive shares would have been anti-dilutive.

(d)   
   As discussed in  General   Reporting of assets under custody and/or administration,  all periods included in the table have been revised.

(e)   
   Represents the securities on loan managed by the Investment Services business.          N/A   Not available.    
      
  2     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
   Financial Summary  (continued)           

(a)   
   Calculated before the extraordinary loss in 2008.      

(b)   
   See  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 106 for a calculation of these ratios.

(c)   
   Includes fee revenue, net interest revenue and income from consolidated investment management funds, net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.

(d)   
   Excluding the SILO/LILO charge, the percentage of non-U.S. revenue was 32% and the net interest margin was 2.21%.      

(f)   
   When in this Annual Report we refer to BNY Mellon s or our bank subsidiary s  Basel I  capital measures (e.g., Basel I Total capital or Basel I
Tier 1 capital), we mean Total or Tier 1 capital, as applicable, as calculated under the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System s risk-based capital guidelines that are based on the 1988 Basel Accord, which is often referred to as
 Basel I.       

(g)   
   The estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio at Dec. 31, 2012 is based on the Notices of Proposed Rulemaking ( NPRs ) and final market risk rule and
is calculated on an Advance Approaches basis, as amended by Basel III. The estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio of 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011 is based on prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule.      
         BNY
Mellon     3   

Table of Contents  

      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
         Results of Operations   

General       In this Annual Report, references to  our,   we,   us,   BNY Mellon,  the  Company  and similar terms refer to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
its consolidated subsidiaries. The term  Parent  refers to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation but not its subsidiaries.      BNY
Mellon s actual results of future operations may differ from those estimated or anticipated in certain forward-looking statements contained herein for reasons which are discussed below and under the heading  Forward-looking
Statements.  When used in this Annual Report, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident,   target,   expect,   intend, 
 continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities, 
 trends,  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements in addition to statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements.      Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the Glossary.      The following should
be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Investors should also read the section titled  Forward-looking Statements.        How we reported results       All information for 2012 and 2011 in this Annual Report is
reported on a net income basis. All information for 2010 in this Annual Report is reported on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted. For a description of discontinued operations, see Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.      Throughout this Annual Report, measures, which are noted as  Non-GAAP financial measures,  exclude certain items. BNY
Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons using measures that relate to our ability to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within
our control. We also present the net interest margin on a fully taxable equivalent ( FTE ) basis. We believe that this presentation allows for comparison of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with
industry

practice. Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation. See  Supplemental information  
Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 106 for a reconciliation of financial measures presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) to adjusted Non-GAAP financial measures.
      Reporting of assets under custody and/or administration       In connection with context we provide in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ( MD A ) for our Investment Servicing business, we
disclose assets under custody ( AUC ) combined with assets under administration ( AUA , and together,  AUC/A ). In January 2013, during a review of our processes and procedures for reporting AUC/A, we discovered that
the extraction and collection of these metrics had certain flaws that resulted in the reporting of incorrect amounts. The data extraction process that resulted in these reporting errors is used exclusively for reporting AUC/A and is unrelated to
and, therefore, had no impact on client accounts, assets and statements. Our subsequent review (our  Review ) showed that data was extracted in a manner that caused (i) a double-counting of certain categories of primarily AUC,
(ii) an under-counting and certain misclassifications of AUA, and (iii) the use of the original principal balance rather than the amortized principal balance of certain fixed income securities. AUC, AUA and AUC/A typically are contained in
certain bank regulatory filings, SEC filings and other materials.      Our AUC/A for Dec. 31, 2012, as reported in this Annual Report, and as a
result of our Review, is $26.2 trillion, $0.5 trillion less than the $26.7 trillion that was reported in our earnings release for the fourth quarter of 2012 on a preliminary basis. The decrease from the preliminary AUC/A reported in our earnings
release reflects the reduction of $0.5 trillion of double-counted AUC/A (in addition to the $1.3 trillion doubled-counted AUC/A that was reflected preliminarily in our earnings release disclosure), the addition of $0.7 trillion of under-counted AUA,
and the reduction of $0.7 trillion due to principal extraction errors described above. The adjustments to AUC/A resulted in a year-over-year growth rate of 4% versus a previously reported year-over-year preliminary growth rate of 9% in our earnings
release for the fourth quarter of 2012. AUC/A included in this   

4     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Annual Report has been revised for the years ended 2010, 2011 and 2012. See the  Financial Summary  beginning on page 2. As a result of our Review, in the Glossary of this Annual Report
we have clarified our definition of AUC/A.      As a result of these errors, we are seeking to streamline and enhance the data collection
processes and systems relating to AUC/A. We also have commenced a review of the process for reporting other information in our public filings and have begun and will continue to correct and enhance our disclosure policies and procedures going
forward.      The data extraction errors relating to AUC/A did not impact our reported financial condition or results of operations, including our
revenues, earnings or capital ratios and are unrelated to our internal control over financial reporting.         Overview
      BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK). BNY Mellon is a global investments
company dedicated to helping its clients manage and service their financial assets throughout the investment lifecycle. Whether providing financial services for institutions, corporations or individual investors, BNY Mellon delivers informed
investment management and investment services in 36 countries and more than 100 markets. As of Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon had $26.2 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration, and $1.4 trillion in assets under management. BNY Mellon can
act as a single point of contact for clients looking to create, trade, hold, manage, service, distribute or restructure investments.      BNY
Mellon s businesses benefit from the global growth in financial assets and from the globalization of the investment process. Over the long term, our goals are focused on deploying capital to accelerate the long-term growth of our businesses and
achieving superior total returns to shareholders by generating first quartile earnings per share growth over time relative to a group of peer companies.      Key components of our strategy include:       

focusing on organic growth opportunities;      

providing superior client service versus peers;      

delivering strong investment performance relative to benchmarks;      

generating above-median revenue growth relative to peer companies;

increasing the percentage of revenue and income derived from outside the United States;      

maintaining a highly liquid balance sheet with excellent credit quality;      

improving efficiency and reducing operational risk; and      

disciplined capital deployment.         We have established Basel I Tier 1 capital as our principal capital measure and have established a targeted ratio of Basel I Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 10%. We expect to update our capital
targets once new regulatory capital guidelines are finalized.         Key 2012 and subsequent events    
   Sale of private client business       On Feb.
27, 2013, Newton Management Limited, together with Newton Investment Management Limited, an investment boutique of BNY Mellon, announced the sale of its private client business. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval, and is expected to
close in the third quarter of 2013. The agreement covers assets under management valued at  3.6 billion. This transaction is not expected to have a significant impact on our financial results.   
   U.S. Tax Court Ruling       On Feb. 11, 2013,
the U.S. Tax Court issued a ruling against BNY Mellon upholding the IRS  disallowance of certain foreign tax credits claimed for the 2001 and 2002 tax years. As a result of the ruling and in accordance with the accounting for uncertain tax
positions under ASC 740, BNY Mellon expects to record an after-tax charge of approximately $850 million during the first quarter of 2013. After taking the charge, we expect to continue to be well capitalized. Additionally, we expect this charge
will decrease the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio by approximately 55 basis points.      BNY Mellon will appeal the court s decision. We
continue to believe the tax treatment of the transaction was consistent with statutory and judicial authority existing at the time.   
   Central Securities Depository       In
January 2013, we received regulatory approval to establish a new issuer central securities depository based in Belgium. BNY Mellon CSD SA/NV will help integrate and simplify settlement and safekeeping services across Europe for the benefit of our
customers.   

BNY
Mellon     5   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Executive Management changes       In the fourth quarter of 2012, BNY Mellon announced several executive management appointments designed to accelerate the company s success as the global leader in investment management and investment
services. These appointments were effective Jan. 1, 2013.      Karen B. Peetz became President of BNY Mellon. As President, Peetz will lead Global
Client Management, Regional Management, Treasury Services and Human Resources.      Timothy F. Keaney was named Chief Executive Officer of
Investment Services as BNY Mellon aligned its Asset Servicing, Corporate Trust, Depositary Receipts, Global Markets, Global Collateral Services, Broker Dealer Services, and Pershing businesses under his leadership. Keaney is also Vice Chairman of
Asset Servicing.      Brian T. Shea was named President of Investment Services and head of BNY Mellon s Client Service Delivery and Client
Technology Solutions group. He also continues in his role as head of Broker Dealer and Advisor Services. As of Feb. 1, 2013, Shea was named Chairman of BNY Mellon s Pershing subsidiary.      Vice Chairman Curtis Y. Arledge continues as Chief Executive Officer of Investment Management, BNY Mellon s asset and wealth management businesses.   
   Acquisition of remaining 50% interest in WestLB Mellon Asset Management joint venture       On Oct. 1, 2012, BNY Mellon acquired the remaining 50% interest in the WestLB Mellon Asset Management joint venture from Portigon (formerly known as WestLB AG) and consolidated our German Asset Management
business. WestLB Mellon Asset Management was formed in early 2006 as a 50:50 joint venture between BNY Mellon and Portigon. At the date of the acquisition, the WestLB Mellon Asset Management joint venture had over 170 employees and more than $29
billion in assets under management. In December 2012, WestLB Mellon Asset Management was renamed Meriten Investment Management ( Meriten ).       Litigation settlements       In 2012, BNY Mellon agreed to settle several significant
litigations, including litigation arising from

losses relating to both Sigma Finance Inc. ( Sigma ) and Bernard L. Madoff, along with litigation arising from The Bank of New York Mellon s role as indenture trustee for debt
issued by affiliates of Medical Capital Corp. Settlements relating to the Bernard L. Madoff matter and Medical Capital Corp. remain subject to court approval.       Proposed risk-based capital rules       On June 7, 2012, the U.S. regulatory agencies
released three Notices of Proposed Rulemaking ( NPRs ) and final market risk rule which provide guidance on the determination of regulatory capital ratios. The NPRs were published in the Federal Register on Aug. 30, 2012. At Dec. 31, 2012,
our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio calculated under the new guidelines was 9.8%. Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio, based on prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule, was 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011. The
increase compared with Dec. 31, 2011 was primarily due to a reduction in risk-weighted assets related to the treatment of sub-investment grade securities under the NPRs, earnings retention and an increase in the value of the investment portfolio,
partially offset by balance sheet growth in 2012.      See the  Regulatory Developments  section for a discussion of the NPRs and final
market risk rule and the  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  section for the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio.   
   European Central Bank interest rate cut    
  On July 5, 2012, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) cut its main refinancing rate to 0.75% and reduced its deposit rate, which acts as a
floor for the money markets, to zero. The combination of the lower ECB deposit rate and the balances maintained at the ECB negatively impacted our net interest revenue by approximately $25 million in the second half of 2012. The impact to fee
revenue from the rate cut has been immaterial.       Capital plan and share repurchase program    
  In March 2012, BNY Mellon received confirmation that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) did not
object to our 2012 comprehensive capital plan. Our 2012 capital plan included the repurchase of up to $1.16 billion of outstanding common stock and the continuation of the 13 cents per share quarterly cash dividend.

6     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In 2012, we repurchased 49.8 million common shares in the open market, at an average price of $22.38
per common share for a total of $1.12 billion. Our capital plan for 2012 authorized the repurchase of up to $1.16 billion worth of common shares, or no more than $290 million per quarter, including both open market purchases and employee benefit
plan repurchases, from the second quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013. Accordingly, in the first quarter of 2013, we continued to repurchase shares under the 2012 capital plan. Through Feb. 27, 2013, we repurchased 7.8 million
common shares in the open market, at an average price of $27.21 per common share for a total of $211 million.      We submitted our 2013 capital
plan on Jan. 7, 2013. The Federal Reserve has indicated it expects to publish its objection or non-objection to the plan by March 14, 2013. We anticipate announcing our 2013 capital plan shortly thereafter.   
     Summary of financial results       We reported net income applicable to common shareholders of BNY Mellon of $2.4 billion, or $2.03 per diluted common share in 2012 compared with $2.5 billion, or $2.03 per diluted common share in 2011
and $2.5 billion, or $2.05 per diluted common share in 2010. In 2010, net income applicable to common shareholders on a continuing operations basis was $2.6 billion, or $2.11 per diluted common share.   
   Highlights of 2012 results        

Assets under management ( AUM ), excluding securities lending assets, totaled a record $1.4 trillion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $1.3
trillion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase was primarily driven by higher market values and net new business. (See the  Investment Management business  beginning on page 21).      

Investment services fees totaled $6.6 billion in 2012 compared with $6.8 billion in 2011. Improved asset servicing revenue, driven by net new business
and higher market values, as well as higher clearing and treasury services revenues, were more than offset by the impact of

the sale of the Shareowner Services business in the fourth quarter of 2011, lower Depositary Receipts revenue and lower Corporate Trust fees reflecting the continued net run-off of structured
debt securitizations. (See the  Investment Services business  beginning on page 24).      

Investment management and performance fees totaled $3.2 billion in 2012 compared with $3.0 billion in 2011. The increase was driven by higher
market values, net new business and higher performance fees. (See the  Investment Management business  beginning on page 21).      

Investment income and other revenue totaled $427 million in 2012 compared with $455 million in 2011. The decrease primarily resulted from the
pre-tax gain on sale of the Shareowner Services business recorded in 2011, partially offset by higher seed capital gains in 2012 and the write-down of an equity investment recorded in 2011. (See  Fee and other revenue  beginning on
page 9).      

Net interest revenue totaled $3.0 billion in 2012, a decrease of $11 million compared with 2011 as higher average assets driven by higher client
deposits, increased investment in higher quality investment securities and higher loan levels were more than offset by narrower spreads, lower accretion, the elimination of interest on European Central Bank deposits and lower yields on the
reinvestment of securities. The net interest margin (FTE) was 1.21% in 2012 compared with 1.36% in 2011. The decrease primarily reflects lower reinvestment yields, lower accretion, the elimination of interest on European Central Bank deposits and
growth in customer deposits which were invested in liquid, lower-yielding assets (See  Net interest revenue  beginning on page 13).      

The provision for credit losses was a credit of $80 million in 2012 compared with a provision of $1 million in 2011. The credit in 2012 was largely
driven by a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the residential mortgage loan portfolio. (See  Asset quality and

BNY
Mellon     7   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

allowance for credit losses  beginning on page 46).      

Noninterest expense totaled $11.3 billion in 2012 compared with $11.1 billion in 2011. The increase was primarily driven by higher litigation expense,
revenue mix and the cost of generating certain tax credits, partially offset by the impact of the sale of the Shareowner Services business and our operational excellence initiatives. (See  Noninterest expense  beginning on page 16).

BNY Mellon recorded an income tax provision of $779 million (23.6% effective tax rate) in 2012 compared with $1.0 billion (29.0% effective tax rate) in
2011. The lower effective tax rate primarily reflects the benefits associated with increased tax credits and the reorganization of certain foreign operations. (See  Income taxes  on page 18).      

The unrealized pre-tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio was $2.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $793 million at Dec. 31, 2011.
The increase primarily reflects a decline in interest rates and improved credit spreads. (See  Investment securities  beginning on page 40).      

At Dec. 31, 2012, our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.8% based on the NPRs and final market risk rule. The increase in the ratio
from 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011, which was calculated under prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule, was primarily due to a reduction in risk-weighted assets related to the treatment of sub-investment grade securities under the NPRs,
earnings retention and an increase in the value of the investment portfolio, partially offset by balance sheet growth. (See  Capital  beginning on page 57).      
 
     Results for 2011       In 2011, we reported net income applicable to common shareholders of BNY Mellon of $2.5 billion, or $2.03 per diluted common share. These results were primarily driven by:   

Investment services fees totaled $6.8 billion reflecting the full year impact of the acquisitions

of Global Investment Servicing ( GIS ) on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH ( BAS ) on Aug. 2, 2010 (collectively,  the Acquisitions ), and net new
business.      

Investment management and performance fees totaled $3.0 billion reflecting net new business and higher average equity markets.

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $848 million driven by lower fixed income trading revenue and lower foreign exchange revenue.

Noninterest expense totaled $11.1 billion reflecting the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher staff expense, volume-related expenses and
software expense, as well as higher professional, legal and other purchased services.          Results for 2010    
  In 2010, we reported net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, of $2.5 billion, or $2.05 per diluted common share,
or on a continuing operations basis, net income of $2.6 billion, or $2.11 per diluted common share. These results were primarily driven by:       

Investment services fee revenue totaled $6.1 billion in 2010 reflecting the Acquisitions, higher market values and net new business.

Investment management and performance fees totaled $2.9 billion in 2010 reflecting higher market values globally, the full year impact of the
acquisition of Insight Investment Management Limited ( Insight ) and new business.      

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $886 million in 2010 driven by lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue and lower foreign
exchange revenue.      

Net interest revenue totaled $2.9 billion in 2010 as a higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio and higher interest-earning
assets were offset by lower spreads.      

Noninterest expense totaled $10.2 billion in 2010 primarily driven by the impact of the Acquisitions, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition
and higher compensation expense.      

8     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Fee and other revenue   

(a)   
   See  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 106 for fee and other revenue excluding Shareowner
Services   Non-GAAP. The Shareowner Services business was sold on Dec. 31, 2011.      

(c)   
   As discussed in  General   Reporting of assets under custody and/or administration,  all periods included in the table have been revised. Previously
this line item indicated that these numbers reflected the  market value  of AUC/A. However, AUC/A asset values aggregate market values but also, where appropriate to the asset and related transaction, par values, notional values and
client-provided values.      

Fee and other revenue       Fee and other revenue totaled $11.4 billion, a decrease of 1%, in 2012 compared with $11.5 billion in 2011, primarily reflecting the impact of the sale of the Shareowner Services business. Excluding the
impact of the Shareowner Services business, fee and other revenue increased 1% in 2012 primarily reflecting higher investment management and performance fees, net securities gains and asset servicing and clearing services revenue, partially offset
by lower issuer services fees and foreign exchange and other trading revenue.       Investment services fees    
  Investment services fees were impacted by the following compared with 2011:   

Asset servicing fees increased 2%, primarily driven by net new business and higher market values, higher securities lending revenue due to

wider spreads, and higher global collateral management revenue.      

Issuer services fees decreased 27%. Excluding Shareowner Services, issuer services fees decreased 16% primarily due to lower Depositary Receipts
revenue driven by lower volumes, and lower Corporate Trust fees reflecting the continued net run-off of structured debt securitizations. We estimate this run-off could reduce the Company s total annual revenue by approximately one-half to
three-quarters of 1% if the structured debt markets do not recover.      

Clearing services fees increased 3%, primarily resulting from higher mutual fund fees driven by increases in positions and assets and higher cash
management fees, partially offset by lower clearance revenue reflecting a 6% decrease in DARTS volume, and higher money market fee waivers.      

Treasury services fees increased 3% reflecting higher volumes in cash management services.

BNY
Mellon     9   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   See the  Investment Services business  in  Review of businesses  for additional
details.       Investment management and performance fees       Investment management and performance fees totaled $3.2 billion in 2012, an increase of 6% compared with 2011. The increase primarily reflects higher market values, net new business, higher performance
fees and the Meriten acquisition. Performance fees were $136 million in 2012 and $93 million in 2011.      Total AUM for the Investment Management
business was a record $1.4 trillion at Dec. 31, 2012, compared with $1.3 trillion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher market values and net new business. Long-term inflows in 2012 were $56 billion and primarily
benefited from liability-driven investments and fixed income funds.      See the  Investment Management business  in  Review of
businesses  for additional details regarding the drivers of investment management and performance fees.       Foreign exchange and other
trading revenue        

(a)   
   Credit derivatives are used as economic hedges of loans.         Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased $156 million, or 18%, from $848 million in 2011. In 2012, foreign exchange revenue totaled $520 million, a decrease of 32% compared with $761 million
in 2011. The decrease was driven by a sharp decline in volatility and a modest decrease in volumes. As an indicator of the decline in volatility, the JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index, which is an estimate of external market indicators, decreased 23% in
2012. Additionally, foreign exchange revenue continues to be impacted by increasingly competitive market pressures. Other trading revenue totaled $172 million in 2012, an increase of 98% compared with 2011, largely due to improved fixed income
trading revenue primarily driven by higher interest rate derivatives trading revenue. Foreign exchange revenue and fixed

income trading revenue is reported in the Investment Services business and the Other segment. Credit derivative/other trading revenue is primarily reported in the Other segment.   
  The foreign exchange trading engaged in by the Company generates revenues, which are influenced by the volume of client transactions and the spread
realized on these transactions. The level of volume and spreads is affected by market volatility, the level of cross-border assets held in custody for clients, the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other transactions
undertaken by corporate and institutional clients. These revenues also depend on our ability to manage the risk associated with the currency transactions we execute. A substantial majority of our foreign exchange trades is undertaken for our custody
clients in transactions where BNY Mellon acts as principal, and not as an agent or broker. As a principal, we earn a profit, if any, based on our ability to risk manage the aggregate foreign currency positions that we buy and sell on a daily basis.
Generally speaking, custody clients enter into foreign exchange transactions in one of three ways:  negotiated trading  with BNY Mellon, BNY Mellon s  standing instruction program , or transactions with  third-party foreign exchange
providers .  Negotiated trading  generally refers to orders entered by the client or the client s investment manager, with all decisions related to the transaction, usually on a transaction-specific basis, made by the client or its
investment manager. Such transactions may be initiated by (i) contacting one of our sales desks to negotiate the rate for specific transactions, (ii) using electronic trading platforms, or (iii) electing other methods such as those
pursuant to a benchmarking arrangement, in which pricing is determined by an objective market rate plus a pre-negotiated spread. The preponderance of the notional value of our trading volume with clients is in negotiated trading. Our  standing
instruction program , including a standing instruction program option called the Defined Spread Offering, which the Company introduced to clients in the first quarter of 2012, provides custody clients and their investment managers with an
end-to-end solution that allows them to shift to BNY Mellon the cost, management and execution risk, often in small transactions not otherwise eligible for a more favorable rate or transactions in restricted and difficult to trade currencies. We
incur substantial costs in supporting the global operational infrastructure required to administer the standing instruction program; on a per-transaction basis, the costs associated with the standing instruction program exceed the costs

10     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

associated with negotiated trading. In response to competitive market pressures and client requests, we are continuing to develop standing instruction program products and services and making
these new products and services available to our clients. Our custody clients choose to use  third-party foreign exchange providers  other than BNY Mellon for a substantial majority of their U.S. dollar-equivalent volume foreign exchange
transactions.      We typically price negotiated trades for our custody clients at a spread over either our estimation of the current market rate
for a particular currency or an agreed upon third-party benchmark. With respect to our standing instruction program, we typically assign a price derived from the daily pricing range for marketable-size foreign exchange transactions (generally more
than $1 million) executed between global financial institutions, known as the  interbank range.  Using the interbank range for the given day, we typically price purchases of currencies at or near the low end of this range and sales of
currencies at or near the high end of this range. The standing instruction program Defined Spread Offering prices transactions in each pricing cycle (several times a day in the case of developed market currencies) by adding a predetermined spread to
an objective market source for developed and certain emerging market currencies or to a reference rate computed by BNY Mellon for other emerging market currencies. A shift by custody clients from the standing instruction program to other trading
options combined with the increasing competitive market pressures on the foreign exchange business may negatively impact our foreign exchange revenue. For the year ended Dec. 31, 2012, our total revenue for all types of foreign exchange trading
transactions was $520 million, or approximately 4% of our total revenue. Approximately 41% of our foreign exchange revenue resulted from foreign exchange transactions undertaken through our standing instruction program.   
   Distribution and servicing fees    
  Distribution and servicing fees earned from mutual funds are primarily based on average assets in the funds and the sales of funds that we manage or
administer and are primarily reported in the Investment Management business. These fees, which include 12b-1 fees, fluctuate with the overall level of net sales, the relative mix of sales between share classes, the funds  market values and
money market fee waivers.   
 
   The $5 million increase in distribution and servicing fee revenue in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily
reflects higher market values and lower money market fee waivers. The impact of distribution and servicing fees on income in any one period is partially offset by distribution and servicing expense paid to other financial intermediaries to cover
their costs for distribution and servicing of mutual funds. Distribution and servicing expense is recorded as non-interest expense on the income statement.       Financing-related fees       Financing-related fees, which are primarily reported in the Other
segment, include capital markets fees, loan commitment fees and credit-related fees. Financing-related fees increased $2 million from 2011 primarily as a result of higher capital market fees primarily offset by lower credit related fees.   
   Investment and other income        
    Investment and other income, which is primarily reported in the Other segment and Investment Management business,
includes income from insurance contracts, gains or losses on seed capital investments, lease residual gains, expense reimbursements from joint ventures, equity investment revenue, asset-related gains, transitional services agreements, gains and
losses on private equity investments, and other income (loss). Expense reimbursements from joint ventures relate to expenses incurred by BNY Mellon on behalf of joint ventures. Asset-related gains include loan, real estate and other asset
dispositions. Transitional services agreements primarily relate to the Shareowner Services business. Other income (loss) primarily includes foreign currency remeasurement gain (loss), other investments and various miscellaneous revenues. The
decrease in investment and other income compared with 2011   

BNY
Mellon     11   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

primarily resulted from the pre-tax gain on the sale of Shareowner Services business recorded in 2011, lower gains on loans held for sale retained from a previously divested bank subsidiary and
lower equity investment revenue, partially offset by higher seed capital gains and an improvement in foreign currency remeasurement in 2012 compared with 2011.       Net securities gains       Net securities gains totaled $162 million in 2012 compared with $48
million in 2011. The low interest rate environment in 2012 created the opportunity for us to realize gains as we rebalanced and managed the duration risk of the investment securities portfolio. Gains realized on the sales of securities should be
considered along with net interest revenue when evaluating our overall results.       2011 compared with 2010    
  Fee revenue increased 7% in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily reflecting the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher average market values and
higher

net new business, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower trading revenues.      Fee and other revenue was also impacted by the following:       

Investment services fees increased 13% compared with 2010 reflecting the impact of the Acquisitions on assets servicing and clearing services fees,
higher market values, net new business, higher Depositary Receipts revenue and higher securities lending revenue. This increase was partially offset by lower Corporate Trust fee revenue and lower money market related distribution fees and lower
Shareowner Services revenue.      

Investment management and performance fees increased 5% compared with 2010 reflecting higher average market values and net new business, partially
offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower performance fees.      

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased 4% compared with 2010 driven by lower volatility and spreads, and lower fixed income trading
revenue, partially offset by higher volumes.      

12     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Net interest revenue   

Net interest revenue of $3.0 billion in 2012 decreased $11 million compared with 2011 as higher average
assets driven by higher client deposits, increased investment in higher quality investment securities, such as agency RMBS and state and political subdivisions, and higher loan levels were more than offset by narrower spreads, lower accretion, the
elimination of interest on European Central Bank deposits and lower yields on the reinvestment of securities.      The net interest margin (FTE)
was 1.21% in 2012 compared with 1.36% in 2011. The decline was primarily driven by lower reinvestment yields, the elimination of interest on European Central Bank deposits, lower accretion and increased client deposits which were invested in
lower-yielding assets.      Average interest-earning assets were $250 billion in 2012, compared with $222 billion in 2011. The increase primarily
reflects higher client deposits as a function of the continued European debt crisis and economic uncertainty in the global marketplace. Average total securities increased to $99 billion in 2012, up from $74 billion in 2011, reflecting our strategy
to invest in high-quality investment securities. Average interest-bearing deposits with the

Federal Reserve and other central banks increased to $64 billion, up from $47 billion in 2011, reflecting higher client deposits.      During 2012, the low interest rate environment continued to negatively impact net interest revenue. However, it has driven significant improvement in the value of the investment securities portfolio while
creating the opportunity for us to realize gains as we rebalance and manage the duration risk of this portfolio. Gains realized on these sales should be considered along with net interest revenue when evaluating our overall results. In 2012,
combined net interest revenue and net securities gains totaled $3.1 billion compared with $3.0 billion in 2011.       2011 compared with 2010
      Net interest revenue totaled $3.0 billion in 2011, a 2% increase compared with 2010. The net interest margin (FTE) was 1.36% in 2011
compared with 1.70% in 2010. The trends of net interest revenue and net interest margin (FTE) primarily reflect growth in client deposits, which were placed with central banks, purchases of high quality securities and an increased level of secured
loans, partially offset by lower spreads.   

BNY
Mellon     13   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Includes fees of $38 million in 2012. Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is included in
interest.      

(c)   
   Includes the Cayman Islands branch office.      
      
  14     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Includes fees of $39 million in 2011 and $46 million in 2010. Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the
cash basis, is included in interest.      

(c)   
   Average balances and rates are impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(d)   
   Includes the Cayman Islands branch office.      
         BNY
Mellon     15   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Noninterest expense    

(a)   
   Total revenue excludes Shareowner Services.      

Total noninterest expense increased $221 million, or 2%, compared with 2011 primarily reflecting higher
litigation expense and revenue mix. The lower interest rate environment and tepid capital markets have driven a decline in the revenue of our low variable cost businesses, such as Depositary Receipts, foreign exchange and other trading and net
interest revenue. These revenue declines were more than offset by increases in investment management, asset servicing, clearing and treasury services fees, all of which come

with higher variable costs. The increase in total noninterest expense also reflects the cost of generating certain tax credits in 2012, higher software amortization, employee benefits expense and
business development expenses, the Meriten acquisition and the benefit of state investment tax credits which were recorded in 2011. Partially offsetting these increases was the impact of the sale of the Shareowner Services business. In addition,
savings from our operational excellence initiatives primarily offset the impact of

16     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

headwinds related to compensation and other operating expenses. Excluding amortization of intangible assets, merger and integration ( M I ), litigation and restructuring charges and
the direct expenses related to Shareowner Services, noninterest expense increased 3%, compared with 2011.       Staff expense    
  Given our mix of fee-based businesses, which are staffed with high-quality professionals, staff expense comprised 55% of total noninterest expense in
2012 and 56% in 2011, excluding amortization of intangible assets and M I, litigation and restructuring charges.      Staff expense is
comprised of:       

compensation expense, which includes:      

salary expense, primarily driven by headcount;      

the cost of temporary services and overtime; and      

severance expense;      

incentive expense, which includes:      

additional compensation earned under a wide range of sales commission and incentive plans designed to reward a combination of individual, business unit
and corporate performance goals; as well as,      

stock-based compensation expense; and      

employee benefit expense, primarily medical benefits, payroll taxes, pension and other retirement benefits.      
  Staff expense was $5.8 billion in 2012, an increase of 1% compared with 2011. The increase in staff expense compared with 2011 primarily reflects higher
pension expense, the annual employee merit increase effective in the third quarter of 2012, the Meriten acquisition and higher incentive expense driven by improved results in our Investment Management business, partially offset by the impact of the
sale of the Shareowner Services business.       Non-staff expense       Non-staff expense includes certain expenses that vary with the levels of business activity and levels of expensed business investments, fixed infrastructure

costs and expenses associated with corporate activities related to technology, compliance, legal, productivity initiatives and business development.   
  Non-staff expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets and M I, litigation and restructuring charges, totaled $4.6 billion in both 2012 and
2011. Higher non-staff expense in 2012 resulting from the cost of generating certain tax credits, higher software amortization, business development expenses and the Meriten acquisition was primarily offset by the sale of the Shareowner Services
business and the impact of our operational excellence initiatives.      In 2012, we incurred $559 million of M I, litigation and restructuring
charges compared with $390 million in 2011. The increase primarily relates to higher litigation expense. A majority of the litigation expense in 2012 related to the Sigma and Medical Capital Corp. settlements.   
  The financial services industry has seen a continuing increase in the level of litigation activity. As a result, we anticipate our legal and litigation
costs to continue at elevated levels.      For additional information on our legal proceedings, see Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.      In 2012, we recorded a net recovery of $16 million in restructuring charges. The net recovery in 2012 reflects a gain on the sale
of a property, which was primarily offset by additional severance charges and a lease restructuring. For additional information on restructuring charges, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   2011 compared with 2010       Total
noninterest expense was $11.1 billion in 2011, an increase of $942 million, or 9%, compared with 2010 primarily reflecting the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, which impacted nearly all expense categories and accounted for approximately 50% of
the increase year-over-year. The increase in noninterest expense also reflects higher staff expense, volume-related expenses and software expense, as well as higher professional, legal and other purchased services.

BNY
Mellon     17   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Operational excellence initiatives update    

(a)   
   Represents the estimated pre-tax run rate expense savings since program inception in 2011. Total Company actual operating expense may increase or decrease due to
other factors.      

(b)   
   Program costs include incremental costs to plan and execute the programs including dedicated program managers, consultants, severance and other costs.
        Our operational excellence initiatives exceeded our anticipated pre-tax savings of $240   $260 million in 2012, on a
pre-tax basis.      Through Dec. 31, 2012, we accomplished the following operational excellence initiatives:   
     Business Operations          

Consolidated Treasury Services functions (e.g., check processing and lockbox operations) in our Pittsburgh Service Center.

Continued global footprint positions migration. Lowered operating costs as we ramped up the Eastern European Global Delivery Center.

Reengineered Dreyfus and Global Fund Accounting operations to reduce headcount.      

Realized synergies by integrating our custody and clearing operations related to the GIS acquisition.      

Completed client conversions related to our BHF Asset Servicing GmbH acquisition.      
     Technology          

Migrated GIS systems to BNY Mellon platforms; 100% of the production applications have been successfully migrated as of Dec. 31, 2012.

Insourced software engineers to Global Delivery Centers.      

Standardized infrastructure through server elimination and software rationalization.      

Consolidated storage platforms.

Corporate Services      

Consolidated offices and reduced real estate by 565,000 square feet, primarily in the New York Metro region, EMEA region and Los Angeles.

Benefited from our enhanced global procurement program and renegotiated key vendor contracts.      
     Income taxes       BNY
Mellon recorded an income tax provision of $779 million (23.6% effective tax rate) in 2012 compared with of $1.0 billion (29.0% effective tax rate) in 2011 and, on a continuing operations basis, $1.0 billion (28.3% effective tax rate) in 2010.
     We expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 25% to 26% in 2013, excluding the impact of the U.S. Tax Court ruling on Feb. 11, 2013.
     Under U.S. tax law, income from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries has not been subject to U.S. income tax as result of a deferral provision
applicable to income that is derived in active conduct of a banking and financing business. In January 2013, the active financing deferral provision was extended retroactively to Jan. 1, 2012 through Dec. 31, 2013 under the American Taxpayer Relief
Act of 2012.         Review of businesses       We have an internal information system that produces performance data along product and service lines for our two principal businesses and the Other segment.   
   Organization of our business       On Dec.
31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold its Shareowner Services business. In 2012, we reclassified the results of the Shareowner Services business from the Investment Services business to the Other segment. The reclassification did not impact the consolidated
results of operations. All prior periods have been restated.      For information on the accounting principles of our businesses, the primary
types of revenue by business and how our businesses are presented and analyzed, see Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  Information on our businesses is reported on a continuing operations basis for 2010. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of discontinued operations.   

18     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The results of our businesses may be influenced by client activities that vary by quarter. In the second
quarter, we typically experience an increase in securities lending fees due to an increase in demand to borrow securities outside of the United States. In the third quarter, Depositary Receipts revenue is typically higher due to an increased level
of client dividend payments paid in the quarter. Also in the third quarter, volume-related fees may decline due to reduced client activity. In our Investment Management business, performance fees are typically higher in the fourth quarter, as the
fourth quarter represents the end of the measurement period for many of the performance fee-eligible relationships.      The results of our
businesses in 2012 were driven by the following factors. The Investment Management business benefited from higher market values, net new business and higher seed capital gains, as well as higher performance fees. Results in the Investment Services
business were impacted by lower foreign exchange revenue, Depository Receipts revenue and Corporate Trust fees, partially offset by higher asset servicing revenue resulting from net new business and higher market values, as well as higher Clearing

Services revenue. Clearing services revenue increased despite a 19% decrease in NYSE and NASDAQ share volumes.      Net securities gains (losses) are recorded in the Other segment. M I and restructuring charges are corporate level items and are therefore recorded in the Other segment.   
  Net interest revenue decreased as growth in client deposits and increased investment in high quality investment securities were more than offset by the
continued impact of the low interest rate environment and lower accretion.      Noninterest expense increased compared to 2011 primarily driven by
higher litigation expense, revenue mix and the cost of generating certain tax credits, partially offset by the impact of the sale of the Shareowner Services business and our operational excellence initiatives.   
  The following table presents the value of certain market indices at period end and on an average basis.

(a)   
   Period end.      

(b)   
   The JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index is based on the implied volatility in 3-month currency options.      

Fee revenue in Investment Management, and to a lesser extent in Investment Services, is impacted by the
value of market indices. At Dec. 31, 2012, using the Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500 Index as a proxy for the global equity markets, we estimate that a 100-point change in the value of the S P 500 Index spread

evenly throughout the year, would impact fee revenue by less than 1% and diluted earnings per common share by $0.03 to $0.05. If global equity markets over- or under-perform the S P 500
Index, the impact to fee revenue and earnings per share could be different.   

BNY
Mellon     19   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following consolidating schedules show the contribution of our businesses to our overall
profitability.       

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $189 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $76 million, for a net
impact of $113 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $76 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.          

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $200 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $50 million, for a net
impact of $150 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $50 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.          

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $226 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $59 million, for a net
impact of $167 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $59 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

20     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Investment Management business    

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes the impact of the consolidated investment management funds. See  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP
financial measures  beginning on page 106. Additionally, other revenue includes asset servicing and treasury services revenue.      

(b)   
   Distribution and servicing expense is netted with the distribution and servicing revenue for the purpose of this calculation of pre-tax operating margin.
Distribution and servicing expense totaled $415 million, $412 million and $376 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.          

(a)   
   Excludes securities lending cash management assets.      
         BNY
Mellon     21   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Business description       Our Investment Management business is comprised of our affiliated investment management boutiques, wealth management business and global distribution companies.   
  Our Investment Management business is responsible, through various subsidiaries, for U.S. and non-U.S. retail, intermediary and institutional investment
management, distribution and related services. The investment management boutiques offer a broad range of equity, fixed income, cash and alternative/overlay products. In addition to the investment subsidiaries, this business includes BNY Mellon
Asset Management International, which is responsible for the investment management and distribution of non-U.S. products, and the Dreyfus Corporation and its affiliates, which are responsible for U.S. investment management and distribution of retail
mutual funds, separate accounts and annuities. We are one of the world s largest asset managers with a top-10 position in the U.S., Europe and globally.      Through BNY Mellon Wealth Management, we offer a full array of investment management, wealth and estate planning and private banking solutions to help clients protect, grow and transfer their wealth
through an extensive network of offices in the U.S., Canada, UK and Asia. Clients include high-net-worth individuals and families, charitable gift programs, endowments and foundations and related entities. BNY Mellon Wealth Management is ranked as
the nation s seventh largest wealth manager and third largest U.S. private bank.      The results of the Investment Management business are
driven by the period-end, average level and mix of assets managed and the level of activity in client accounts. The overall level of AUM for a given period is determined by:   

the beginning level of AUM;      

the net flows of new assets during the period resulting from new business wins and existing client enrichments, reduced by the loss of clients and
withdrawals; and      

the impact of market price appreciation or depreciation, the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures and foreign exchange rates.
        The mix of AUM is determined principally by client asset allocation decisions among equities, fixed income, money market
and alternative investments and overlay products.   
 
   Managed equity assets typically generate higher percentage fees than money market and fixed-income assets.
Also, actively managed assets typically generate higher management fees than indexed or passively managed assets of the same type.      Management
fees are typically subject to fee schedules based on the overall level of assets managed for a single client or by individual asset class and style. This is most prevalent for institutional assets where amounts we manage for individual clients are
typically large.      A key driver of organic growth in investment management and performance fees is the amount of net new AUM flows. Overall
market conditions are also key drivers, with a significant long-term economic driver being the growth of global financial assets.      Performance
fees are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance.      Results for this business are also impacted by sales of fee-based products. Net interest revenue is determined by loan and deposit volumes and the interest rate spread between customer rates and internal
funds transfer rates on loans and deposits. Expenses in this business are mainly driven by staffing costs, incentives and distribution and servicing expense.       Review of financial results       Investment management and performance fees are dependent on
the overall level and mix of AUM and the management fees expressed in basis points (one-hundredth of one percent) charged for managing those assets. Assets under management were a record $1.4 trillion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $1.3 trillion at
Dec. 31, 2011, an increase of 10%. The increase primarily reflects higher market values and net new business. Net long-term inflows were $56 billion in 2012 and benefited from strength in liability-driven investments and fixed income funds. Net
short-term outflows were $20 billion in 2012. Revenue generated in the Investment Management business includes 45% from non-U.S. sources in 2012 compared with 42% in 2011.      In 2012, Investment Management had pre-tax income of $923 million compared with $723 million in 2011. Excluding amortization of intangible assets, pre-tax income was $1.1 billion in 2012 compared with
$937 million in 2011. Investment Management results   

22     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

for 2012 reflect higher market values, net new business in both the investment management boutiques and the wealth management business, higher seed capital gains and higher performance fees.
     Investment management fees in the Investment Management business were $3.1 billion in 2012 compared with $3.0 billion in 2011. The increase
was driven by higher market values, net new business and the Meriten acquisition.      Performance fees were $137 million in 2012 compared with
$93 million in 2011. The increase reflects investment strategies that exceeded their benchmarks including a higher level of fees generated on liability-driven investments.      In 2012, 36% of investment management fees in the Investment Management business were generated from managed mutual fund fees. These fees are based on the daily average net assets of each fund and the
management fee paid by that fund. Managed mutual fund fee revenue increased 3% in 2012 compared with 2011. The increase in managed mutual fund fees in the Investment Management business was due to higher market values and net new business.
     Distribution and servicing fees were $187 million in 2012 compared with $181 million in 2011. The increase primarily reflects higher market
values and lower money market fee waivers.      Other fee revenue was $130 million in 2012 compared with $21 million in 2011. The increase
primarily resulted from higher seed capital gains in 2012 and the write-down of an equity investment recorded in 2011.

Net interest revenue was $214 million in 2012, compared with $206 million in 2011. The increase primarily
resulted from higher average loans and deposits, partially offset by narrower spreads and lower accretion. Average loans increased 14% in 2012 compared with 2011 while average deposits increased 16% in 2012 compared with 2011.   
  Noninterest expense excluding amortization of intangible assets was $2.6 billion in 2012 and $2.5 billion in 2011. The increase was primarily driven
by higher staff expense due to higher incentives expense resulting from an increase in performance fees and the annual employee merit increase effective in the third quarter of 2012, the Meriten acquisition and higher business development expenses.
      2011 compared with 2010    
  Income before taxes was $723 million in 2011, compared with $729 million in 2010. Income before taxes excluding amortization of intangible assets and
support agreement charges was $937 million in 2011 compared with $966 million in 2010. Fee and other revenue increased $67 million, primarily reflecting net new business and higher average equity markets, which were largely offset by higher money
market fee waivers, lower non-U.S. markets and performance fees, a $30 million write-down of an equity investment, mark-to-market seed capital losses and lower securities gains. Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets)
increased $101 million in 2011 compared with 2010 as a result of higher distribution and servicing and staff expenses, primarily resulting from net new business.

BNY
Mellon     23   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Investment Services business   

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes investment management fees and distribution and servicing revenue.      

(b)   
   For purposes of this calculation, noninterest expense excludes amortization of intangible assets, support agreement charges and litigation expense.

(d)   
   As discussed in  General   Reporting of assets under custody and/or administration,  all periods included in the table have been revised. Previously
this line item indicated that these numbers reflected the  market value  of AUC/A. However, AUC/A asset values aggregate market values but also, where appropriate to the asset and related transaction, par values, notional values and
client-provided values.      

(e)   
   Represents the total amount of securities on loan managed by the Investment Services business.      
      
  24     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Business description       Our Investment Services business provides global custody and related services, broker-dealer services, collateral services, alternative investment services, corporate trust and depositary receipt
services, as well as clearing services and global payment/working capital solutions to institutional clients.      Our comprehensive suite of
financial solutions includes: global custody, global fund services, securities lending, investment manager outsourcing, performance and risk analytics, alternative investment services, securities clearance, collateral management, corporate trust,
American and global depositary receipt programs, cash management solutions, payment services, liquidity services and other linked revenues, principally foreign exchange, global clearing and execution, managed account services and global prime
brokerage solutions. Our clients include corporations, public funds and government agencies, foundations and endowments; global financial institutions including banks, broker-dealers, asset managers, insurance companies and central banks; financial
intermediaries and independent registered investment advisors and hedge fund managers. We help our clients service their financial assets through a network of offices and operations centers in 36 countries across six continents.   
  The results of this business are driven by a number of factors which include: the level of transaction activity; the range of services provided,
including custody, accounting, fund administration, daily valuations, performance measurement and risk analytics, securities lending, and investment manager back-office outsourcing; the number of accounts; and the market value of assets under
custody and/or administration. Market interest rates impact both securities lending revenue and the earnings on client deposit balances. Business expenses are driven by staff, technology investment, equipment and space required to support the
services provided by the business and the cost of execution, clearance and custody of securities.      We are one of the leading global securities
servicing providers with $26.2 trillion of assets under custody and/or administration at Dec. 31, 2012. We are the largest custodian for U.S. corporate and public pension plans and we service 46% of the top 50 endowments. We are a leading custodian
in the UK and service 20% of UK pensions that require a custodian. European asset servicing continues to grow across all products, reflecting significant cross-border

investment and capital flows. The changing regulatory environment is also driving demand for new products among clients.      We are one of the largest providers of fund services in the world, the third largest fund administrator in the alternative investment services industry and service 41% of the funds in the U.S.
exchange-traded funds marketplace.      BNY Mellon is a leader in both global securities and U.S. Government securities clearance. We clear and
settle equity and fixed income transactions in over 100 markets and handle most of the transactions cleared through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 17 of the 21 primary dealers. We are an industry leader in collateral management, servicing
on average $2.0 trillion in global collateral, including tri-party repo collateral worldwide. We currently service approximately $1.4 trillion of the $1.8 trillion tri-party repo market in the U.S.   
  BNY Mellon offers tri-party agent services to dealers and cash investors active in the tri-party repurchase, or tri-party repo, market. We currently have
an approximately 80% market share of the U.S. tri-party repo market. As a tri-party repo agent, we facilitate settlement between dealers (cash borrowers) and investors (cash lenders). Our involvement in a transaction commences after a dealer and a
cash investor agree to a tri-party repo trade and send instructions to us. We maintain custody of the collateral (the subject securities of the repo) and execute the payment and delivery instructions agreed to and provided by the principals.
     BNY Mellon is working to significantly reduce the risk associated with the secured intraday credit we provide with respect to the tri-party
repo market. BNY Mellon has implemented several measures in that regard, including reducing the amount of time we extend intraday credit, implementing three-way trade confirmations, and automating the way dealers can substitute collateral in their
tri-party repo trades. Additionally, in 2013, we have limited the eligibility for intraday credit associated with tri-party repo transactions to certain more liquid asset classes that will result in a reduction of exposures secured by less liquid
forms of collateral by dealers. These efforts are consistent with the recommendations of the Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform Task Force that was sponsored by the Payments Risk Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and included
representatives from a diverse group of market participants, including BNY Mellon. We anticipate

BNY
Mellon     25   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

that the combination of these measures will have reduced risks substantially in our tri-party repo activity in the near term and, together with technology enhancements currently in development,
will achieve the practical elimination of intraday credit in this activity by the end of 2014.      In 2012, we formed Global Collateral Services
which serves broker-dealers and institutional investors facing expanding collateral management needs as a result of current and emerging regulatory and market requirements. Global Collateral Services brings together BNY Mellon s global
capabilities in segregating, optimizing, financing and transforming collateral on behalf of clients, including its market leading broker-dealer collateral management, securities lending, collateral financing, liquidity and derivatives services
teams.      In securities lending, we are one of the largest lenders of U.S. Treasury securities and depositary receipts and service a lending
pool of approximately $3 trillion in 29 markets.      BNY Mellon provides the infrastructure, technology and processing services clients need to
expertly navigate the ever-changing debt capital markets. We service $11.4 trillion in outstanding debt from 61 locations in 20 countries.      We
serve as depositary for 1,379 sponsored American and global depositary receipt programs at Dec. 31, 2012, acting in partnership with leading companies from 68 countries   a 60% global market share.   
  Pershing LLC ( Pershing ), our clearing service, takes a consultative approach, working with more than 1,500 financial organizations and
100,000 investment professionals who collectively represent approximately 5.5 million active accounts by delivering dependable operational support; robust trading services; flexible technology; an expansive array of investment solutions,
including managed accounts, mutual funds and cash management; practice management support; and service excellence.       Role of BNY Mellon, as
a trustee, for mortgage-backed securitizations       BNY Mellon acts as trustee and document custodian for certain mortgage-backed security
( MBS ) securitization trusts. The role of trustee for MBS securitizations is limited; our primary role as trustee is to calculate and distribute monthly bond payments to bondholders. As a document custodian, we hold the

mortgage, note, and related documents provided to us by the loan originator or seller and provide periodic reporting to these parties. BNY Mellon, either as document custodian or trustee, does
not receive mortgage underwriting files (the files that contain information related to the creditworthiness of the borrower). As trustee or custodian, we have no responsibility or liability for the quality of the portfolio; we are liable only for
performance of our limited duties as described above and in the trust documents. BNY Mellon is indemnified by the servicers or directly from trust assets under the governing agreements. BNY Mellon may appear as the named plaintiff in legal actions
brought by servicers in foreclosure and other related proceedings because the trustee is the nominee owner of the mortgage loans within the trusts.       Review of financial results       On Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold its Shareowner Services
business. In 2012, we reclassified the results of the Shareowner Services business from the Investment Services business to the Other segment. All prior periods have been restated.      AUC/A at Dec. 31, 2012 were 26.2 trillion, an increase of 4% from 25.1 trillion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase was driven by higher market values and net new business. AUC/A were comprised of 33% equity
securities and 67% fixed income securities at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with 32% equity securities and 68% fixed income securities at Dec. 31, 2011.      Income before taxes was $2.3 billion in 2012 compared with $3.0 billion in 2011. Income before taxes, excluding amortization of intangible assets, was $2.4 billion in 2012 compared with $3.2 billion in
2011. Investment Services results in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflect lower foreign exchange revenue, Depositary Receipts revenue, Corporate Trust fees and net interest revenue, as well as, higher litigation expense, partially offset by
higher Asset Servicing revenue and Clearing Services revenue.      Revenue generated in the Investment Services business includes 36% from
non-U.S. sources in 2012 compared with 38% in 2011.      Investment services fees decreased $80 million, or 1%, in 2012 compared with 2011.

Asset servicing revenue (global custody, broker-dealer services and alternative investment services) was $3.7 billion in 2012 compared

26     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

with $3.6 billion in 2011. The increase primarily reflects net new business and higher market values as well as higher securities lending revenue and higher collateral management revenue.

Issuer services revenue (Corporate Trust and Depositary Receipts) was $1.0 billion in 2012, down $203 million compared with 2011. The decrease
primarily resulted from lower Depositary Receipts revenue driven by lower volumes, and lower Corporate Trust fees reflecting the continued net run-off of structured debt securitizations. We estimate this run-off could reduce the Company s total
annual revenue by approximately one-half to three-quarters of 1% if the structured debt markets do not recover.      

Clearing services revenue (Pershing) was $1.2 billion in 2012, an increase of $34 million compared with 2011. Higher mutual fund fees driven by
increases in positions and assets and higher cash management balances, were primarily offset by lower clearance revenue, higher money market fee waivers and a 6% decrease in DARTS volume.      
    Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased $203 million compared with 2011, driven by a sharp decline
in volatility and a modest decrease in volumes.      Net interest revenue decreased $123 million compared with 2011, primarily driven by lower
accretion and narrower spreads, partially offset by higher average customer deposits.      Noninterest expense, excluding amortization of
intangible assets, increased $342 million compared with 2011. The increase in expenses primarily resulted from higher litigation expense and higher software amortization expense, partially offset by lower volume-driven expenses and the impact
of the operational excellence initiatives.       2011 compared with 2010       Income before taxes was $3.0 billion in 2011, compared with $3.1 billion in 2010. Income before taxes, excluding amortization of intangible assets, was $3.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Fee and other
revenue increased $693 million compared with 2010,

primarily due to the full-year impact of the Acquisitions and net new business, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower volumes. Net interest revenue increased $203 million
compared with 2010, primarily driven by higher average customer deposits and loan levels, offset in part by narrower spreads. Noninterest expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, increased $943 million compared with 2010. The
increase in expenses primarily resulted from the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher litigation and volume-driven expenses and increased expenses in support of business growth.       Other segment       
     Business description       The Other segment primarily includes:       

credit-related services;      

the leasing portfolio;      

corporate treasury activities, including our investment securities portfolio;      

our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited ( Wing Hang       

business exits, including the results of the Shareowner Services business; and      

corporate overhead.      
  Revenue primarily reflects:       

net interest revenue from the credit services and lease financing portfolios;

BNY
Mellon     27   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

interest revenue remaining after transfer pricing allocations;      

fee and other revenue from corporate and bank-owned life insurance, credit-related financing revenue and the Shareowner Services business; and

gains (losses) associated with the valuation of investment securities and other assets.      
  Expenses include:       

M I and restructuring charges;      

direct expenses supporting credit-related services, leasing, investing and funding activities, and the Shareowner Services business; and

certain corporate overhead not directly attributable to the operations of other businesses.      
   Review of financial results       On Dec.
31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold its Shareowner Services business. In 2012, we reclassified the results of the Shareowner Services business to the Other segment from the Investment Services business. All prior periods have been restated.   
  Income before taxes was $52 million in 2012 compared with a pre-tax loss of $153 million in 2011. The improvement primarily related to lower M I and
restructuring charges and a credit in the provision for credit losses in 2012 of $78 million. The credit was largely driven by a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the residential mortgage loan portfolio.   
  Total revenue decreased $60 million in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily reflecting the impact of the sale of the Shareowner Services business in 2011
and lower gains on loans held-for-sale retained from a previously divested bank subsidiary, partially offset by higher net interest revenue, higher net securities gains and higher fixed income trading revenue.   
  Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets and M I and restructuring charges) decreased $63 million in 2012 compared with 2011.
The decrease was driven by the impact of the sale of the Shareowner Services business, partially offset by the costs of certain tax credits in 2012 and the benefit of state investment tax credits received in 2011.   
   2011 compared with 2010       Income before
taxes was a loss of $153 million in 2011 compared with a loss of $168 million in 2010.

Total revenue decreased $102 million, primarily due to lower net interest revenue, lower leasing gains, financing related fees and private equity investment gains, partially offset by gains on
loans held-for-sale retained from a previously divested bank subsidiary and the gain on the sale of the Shareowner Services business. Noninterest expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets and M I and restructuring charges decreased
$122 million in 2011 compared with 2010. The decrease was driven by lower litigation expense and the benefit of state investment tax credits in 2011.   
     International operations    
  Our primary international activities consist of securities services and global payment services in our investment services business, and asset management
in our investment management business.      Our clients include some of the world s largest asset managers, insurance companies,
corporations, financial intermediaries, local authorities and pension funds. Through our global network of offices, we have developed a deep understanding of local requirements and cultural needs and we pride ourselves in providing dedicated service
through our multilingual sales, marketing and client service teams.      We conduct business through subsidiaries, branches, and representative
offices in 36 countries. We have operational centers based in Brussels, Cork, Dublin, Wexford, Luxembourg, Singapore, Wroclaw, throughout the UK including London, Manchester, Brentwood, Edinburgh and Poole, and Chennai and Pune in India.   
  In January 2013, we received regulatory approval to establish a new issuer central securities depository based in Belgium. BNY Mellon CSD SA/NV will help
integrate and simplify settlement and safekeeping services across Europe for the benefit of our customers.      At Dec. 31, 2012, we had
approximately 9,300 employees in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ), approximately 9,900 employees in the Asia-Pacific region ( APAC ) and approximately 800 employees in other global locations, primarily Brazil.
     BNY Mellon Asset Management operates on a multi-boutique model, bringing investors the skills of our specialist boutique asset managers,
which together manage investments spanning virtually all asset classes.   

28     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   We are one of the largest global asset managers, ranking 7th in the institutional marketplace and are the
7th largest asset manager in Europe. We are also a market leader in the field of liability-driven investments.      At Dec. 31, 2012, our
international operations managed 41% of BNY Mellon s AUM compared with 38% at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase primarily resulted from higher market values and net new business.      In Europe, we maintain a significant presence in the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directives ( UCITS ) servicing field. In Ireland, BNY Mellon is the largest
administrator (by total net assets) for fund administration services across domiciled and non-domiciled funds. We offer a full range of tailored solutions for investment companies, financial institutions and institutional investors in Germany. We
clear and settle equity and fixed income transactions in over 100 markets. We are an industry leader in collateral management, servicing more than $2.0 trillion in global collateral, including tri-party repo collateral worldwide.   
  We serve as the depositary for 1,379 sponsored American and global depositary receipt programs, acting in partnership with leading companies from 68
countries. BNY Mellon provides the infrastructure technology and processing services clients need to expertly navigate the ever-changing debt capital markets. We service $11.4 trillion in outstanding debt from 61 locations in 20 countries.
     We have over 50 years of experience providing trade and cash services to financial institutions and central banks outside of the U.S. In
addition, we offer a broad range of servicing and fiduciary products to financial institutions, corporations and central banks depending on the state of market development. In emerging markets, we lead with global payments and issuer services,
introducing other products as the markets mature. For more established markets, our focus is on global, not local, investment services.      We
are also a full-service global provider of foreign exchange services, actively trading in over 80 of the world s currencies. We serve clients from ten trading rooms in Europe, Asia and North America.   
  Revenue generated in the Investment Services business includes 36% from non-U.S. sources in 2012 compared with 38% in 2011.

Our financial results, as well as our level of AUM and AUC/A, are impacted by the translation of financial
results denominated in foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar. We are primarily impacted by activities denominated in the British pound and the Euro. If the U.S. dollar depreciates against these currencies, the translation impact is a higher
level of fee revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense and AUM and AUC/A. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar appreciates, the translated levels of fee revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense and AUM and AUC/A will be lower.
      
    International clients accounted for 37% of revenue in 2012 compared with 37% in 2011 and 36% in 2010. Net income from
international operations was $1.4 billion in 2012 compared with net income of $1.5 billion in 2011 and net income from continuing operations of $1.5 billion in 2010.      In 2012, revenues from EMEA were $3.7 billion, compared with $3.8 billion in 2011 and $3.5 billion in 2010. Revenues from EMEA were down 3% for 2012 compared to 2011. The decrease in 2012 primarily
reflects lower Corporate Trust and Depositary Receipts revenue, partially offset by higher investment management revenue and performance fees. Investment Services generated 65% and Investment Management generated 34% of EMEA revenues. Net income
from EMEA was $761 million in 2012 compared with net income of $867 million in 2011 and net income from continuing operations of $916 million in 2010.      Revenues from APAC were $902 million in 2012 compared with $842 million in 2011 and $745 million in 2010. Revenues from APAC were up 7% for 2012 compared to 2011. The increase in 2012 primarily resulted
from net new business offset by lower Depositary Receipts revenue and lower Corporate Trust fees. Revenue from APAC in 2012 was generated by Investment Services 69% and Investment Management 27%. Net income from APAC was $349 million in 2012
compared with net income of $325 million in 2011 and net income from continuing operations of $295 million in 2010.   

BNY
Mellon     29   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   For additional information regarding our International operations, see Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.       Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece       The following tables present our on- and off-balance sheet exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal at Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011. We have provided expanded disclosure on these countries as
they have experienced particular market focus on credit quality and are countries experiencing economic concerns. Where appropriate, we are offsetting the risk associated with the gross exposure in these countries with collateral that has been
pledged, which primarily consists of cash or marketable securities, or by transferring the risk to a third-party guarantor in another country.   
  BNY Mellon has a limited economic interest in the performance of assets of consolidated investment

management funds, and therefore they are excluded from this presentation. The liabilities of consolidated investment management funds represent the interest of the noteholders of the funds and
are solely dependent on the value of the assets. Any loss in the value of assets of consolidated investment management funds would be incurred by the fund s noteholders.      At Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon had exposure of less than $1 million to Portugal. At Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon had no exposure to Greece. Additionally, BNY Mellon had no sovereign exposure
to the countries disclosed below at either Dec. 31, 2012 or Dec. 31, 2011.      Our exposure to Ireland is principally related to Irish domiciled
investment funds. Servicing provided to these funds and fund families may result in overdraft exposure.      See  Risk management  for
additional information on how our exposures are managed.   

30     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   Exposure in the tables below reflect the country of operations and risk of the immediate counterparty.

(a)   
   Interest-bearing deposits with banks represent a $101 million placement with an Irish subsidiary of a UK holding company and $125 million of nostro accounts related
to our custody business.      

(b)   
   Represents $266 million, fair value, of residential mortgage-backed securities located in Ireland and Italy, of which 49% were investment grade, $25 million, fair
value, of investment grade asset-backed CLOs located in Ireland, and $3 million, fair value, of money market fund investments located in Ireland.      

(c)   
   Loans and leases include $97 million of overdrafts primarily to Irish-domiciled investment funds resulting from our custody business, a $67 million commercial lease
to an Irish company, which was fully collateralized by U.S. Treasuries, a $2 million loan to a security company located in Ireland, a $5 million overdraft to a financial institution located in Italy, a $2 million custody overdraft to financial
institutions located in Spain and $3 million of leases to airline manufacturing companies located in Italy and Spain, which are under joint and several guarantee arrangements with guarantors outside of the Eurozone. There is no impairment associated
with these loans and leases. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in our Investment Services businesses and are generally repaid within two business days. The overdrafts in Italy and Spain have been repaid.      

(d)   
   Trading assets represent over-the-counter mark-to-market on foreign exchange and interest rate receivables, net of master netting agreements. Trading assets include
$48 million of receivables primarily due from Irish-domiciled investment funds and $54 million of receivables due from financial institutions in Italy and Spain. Cash collateral on the trading assets totaled $7 million in Ireland, $38 million in
Italy and $6 million in Spain.      

(e)   
   Lending-related commitments include $100 million to an insurance company, collateralized by $25 million of marketable securities, and $1 million to an oil and gas
company, fully collateralized by receivables.      

(f)   
   Represents $72 million of letters of credit extended to an insurance company in Ireland, collateralized by $65 million of marketable securities, a $2 million letter
of credit to an oil and gas company in Ireland, a $4 million letter of credit extended to a financial institution in Italy and a $14 million letter of credit extended to an insurance company in Spain, fully collateralized by marketable securities.
     
         BNY
Mellon     31   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Interest-bearing deposits with banks represent a $96 million placement with an Irish subsidiary of a UK holding company and $29 million of nostro accounts related to
our custody business.      

(b)   
   Represents $364 million, fair value, of residential mortgage-backed securities, of which 97% were investment grade, $23 million, fair value, of investment grade
asset-backed CLOs, and $3 million, fair value, of money market fund investments located in Ireland.      

(c)   
   Loans and leases include $335 million of overdrafts primarily to Irish domiciled investment funds resulting from our custody business, a $65 million commercial lease
fully-collateralized by U.S. Treasuries, $15 million of financial institution loans, which were collateralized by marketable securities and $4 million of leases to airline manufacturing companies which are under joint and several guarantee
arrangements, with guarantors outside of the Eurozone. There is no impairment associated with these loans and leases.      

(d)   
   Trading assets represent over-the-counter mark-to-market on foreign exchange receivables, net of master netting agreements. Trading assets include $117 million of
foreign exchange trading receivables due from Irish domiciled investment funds and $72 million due from financial institutions in Italy, Spain and Portugal. Cash collateral on the trading assets totaled $22 million in Ireland, $39 million in Italy,
$7 million in Spain and $3 million in Portugal.      

(e)   
   Lending-related commitments represent $100 million to an asset manager fully-collateralized by marketable securities, and $173 million to an insurance company,
collateralized by $90 million of marketable securities.      

(f)   
   Represents a $14 million letter of credit extended to an insurance company in Spain fully-collateralized by marketable securities. Exposure in Italy represents a $2
million letter of credit extended to a financial institution.      

Cross-border risk       Foreign assets are subject to the general risks attendant on the conduct of business in each foreign country, including economic uncertainties and each foreign government s regulations. In addition,
our foreign assets may be affected by changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency

exchange rates or other factors. Cross-border outstandings include loans, acceptances, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest- bearing investments, and other monetary assets
which are denominated in U.S. dollars or other non-local currency. Also included are local currency outstandings not hedged or funded by local borrowings.

32     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The table below shows our cross-border outstandings for the last three years where cross-border exposure
exceeds 1.00% of total assets (denoted with  * ) or exceeds 0.75% but less than or equal to 1.00% of total assets (denoted with  ** ).       

(a)   
   Revised to correct the exclusion in 2010 and 2011 of previous amounts, primarily sovereign debt obligations. See Note 21 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information regarding our sovereign debt exposure.      

(b)   
   Primarily short-term interest-bearing deposits with banks.      

(c)   
   Excludes assets of consolidated investment management funds.      

(d)   
   Primarily European floating rate notes.      

Emerging markets exposure       We determine our emerging markets exposures using the MSCI Emerging Markets (EM) IMI Index. Our emerging markets exposures totaled $11 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $8 billion at
Dec. 
31, 2011. The increase in emerging markets exposure was primarily driven by higher interest-bearing deposits with banks located in China.        
 Critical accounting estimates       Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements under  Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies . Our critical accounting estimates are those related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments, fair value of financial
instruments and

derivatives, other-than-temporary impairment, goodwill and other intangibles, and pension accounting. Further information on policies related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for
lending-related commitments can be found under  Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, further information can be found in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements related to the following: the valuation of derivatives and securities where quoted market prices are not available can be found under  Fair value measurement  in Note 21; information on
other-than-temporary impairment can be found in  Securities  in Note 5; policies related to goodwill and intangible assets can be found in  Goodwill and intangible assets  in Note 7; and information on pensions can be found in
 Employee benefit plans  in Note 19.   

BNY
Mellon     33   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments    
  The allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments represent management s estimate of probable losses inherent in our
credit portfolio. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments.      We utilize a quantitative methodology and
qualitative framework for determining the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments. Within this qualitative framework, management applies judgment when assessing internal risk factors and environmental factors to
compute an additional allowance for each component of the loan portfolio.      The three elements of the allowance for loan losses and the
allowance for lending-related commitments include the qualitative allowance framework. The three elements are:       

an allowance for impaired credits of $1 million or greater;      

an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits; and      

an allowance for residential mortgage loans.         Our lending is primarily to institutional customers. As a result, our loans are generally larger than $1 million. Therefore, the first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all
impaired loans of $1 million or greater. The allowance is measured by the difference between the recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value. Impaired value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the
borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.      The second element, higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated
credits, is based on our probable loss model. All borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings. The probable loss inherent in each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and
maturity. The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation. The borrower s probability of default is derived from the associated credit rating. Borrower ratings are reviewed at least annually and are periodically mapped to third-party
databases, including rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity. Higher risk-rated credits are reviewed quarterly. All loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a credit
rating.   
 
   The third element, the allowance for residential mortgage loans, is determined by segregating six mortgage
pools into delinquency periods ranging from current through foreclosure. Each of these delinquency periods is assigned a probability of default. A specific loss given default is assigned for each mortgage pool. In 2012, BNY Mellon began assigning
all residential mortgage pools, except home equity lines of credit, a probability of default and loss given default based on five years of default and loss data derived from our residential mortgage portfolio. Prior to 2012, estimates of probability
of default and loss given default factors were based on a combination of external data from third-party databases and internal data. The decision to change was triggered when five years of historical data became available in 2012. The use of
internal historical data provides a better estimate of the allowance, given that it is based on actual default and loss experience on our residential mortgage portfolio. The use of internal historical default and loss data resulted in a credit to
the allowance for credit losses of $51 million in 2012. For each pool, the inherent loss is calculated using the above factors. The resulting probable loss factor (the probability of default multiplied by the loss given default) is applied against
the loan balance to determine the allowance held for each pool. For home equity lines of credit, probability of default and loss given default are based on external data from third party databases due to the small size of the portfolio and
insufficient internal data.      The qualitative framework is used to determine an additional allowance for each portfolio based on the factors
below:      Internal risk factors:       

Nonperforming loans to total non-margin loans;      

Criticized assets to total loans and lending-related commitments;      

Ratings volatility;      

Borrower concentration; and      

Significant concentration in high risk industries.         Environmental risk factors:       

U.S. non-investment grade default rate;      

Unemployment rate; and      

Change in real GDP.         The
objective of the qualitative framework is to capture incurred losses that may not have been fully captured in the quantitative reserve which is based primarily on historical data. Management determines

34     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

the qualitative allowance each period based on judgment informed by consideration of internal and external risk factors. Once determined in the aggregate, our qualitative allowance is then
allocated to each of our loan classes based on the respective classes  quantitative allowance balances with the allocations adjusted, when necessary, for class specific risk factors.      For each risk factor, we calculate the minimum and maximum values, and percentiles in-between, to evaluate the distribution of our historical experience. The distribution of historical experience is
compared to the risk factor s current quarter observed experience to assess the current risk inherent in the portfolio and overall direction/trend of a risk factor relative to our historical experience.   
  Based on this analysis, we assign a risk level- no impact, low, moderate, high and elevated   to each risk factor for the current quarter.
Management assesses the impact of each risk factor to determine an aggregate risk level. We do not quantify the impact of any particular risk factor. Management s assessment of the risk factors, as well as the trend in the quantitative
allowance, supports management s judgment for the overall required qualitative allowance. A smaller qualitative allowance may be required when our quantitative allowance has reflected incurred losses associated with the aggregate risk level. A
greater qualitative allowance may be required if our quantitative allowance does not yet reflect the incurred losses associated with the aggregate risk level.      Our consideration of these factors has remained consistent for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012. In general, we have not seen significant trends in any of our risk factors resulting in a corresponding change
in our qualitative allowance. As a result, the qualitative allowance balance as a percentage of the total allowance has remained stable from Dec. 31, 2011 to Dec. 31, 2012.      To the extent actual results differ from forecasts or management s judgment, the allowance for credit losses may be greater or less than future charge-offs.   
  The credit rating assigned to each credit is a significant variable in determining the allowance. If each credit were rated one grade better, the
allowance would have decreased by $52 million, while if each credit were rated one grade worse, the allowance would have increased by $83 million. Similarly, if the loss given default were one rating worse, the allowance would have increased by $51
million, while

if the loss given default were one rating better, the allowance would have decreased by $39 million. For impaired credits, if the net carrying value of the loans was 10% higher or lower, the
allowance would have decreased or increased by $2 million, respectively.       Fair value of financial instruments    
  The guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement  included in Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 820 defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The standard also established a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the
valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date.       Fair value   Securities    
    Level 1   Securities     Recent quoted prices from exchange transactions are used for debt and equity securities that are actively
traded on exchanges and for U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over-the-counter markets.        Level 2   Securities     For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources
with reasonable levels of price transparency. The pricing sources employ financial models or obtain comparisons to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.      Specifically, the pricing sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and
speed of prepayment for the type of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current market place and classify such securities as Level 2.   
  In addition, we have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS and other types of securities such as sovereign debt. The pricing
sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major inter-dealer brokers. The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the inter-dealer brokers.   
  For securities with bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is analyzed and that information is included in the fair value
assessment for such securities.   

BNY
Mellon     35   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The pricing sources discontinue pricing any specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient
observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price. The pricing sources did not discontinue pricing for any securities in our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2012.      We obtain prices for our Level 1 and Level 2 securities from multiple pricing sources. We have designed controls to develop an understanding of the pricing sources  securities pricing methodology and
have implemented specific internal controls over the valuation of securities.      As appropriate, we review the quality control procedures and
pricing methodologies used by the pricing sources, including the process for obtaining prices provided by the pricing sources, their valuation methodology and controls for each class of security.   
  Prices received from pricing sources are subject to validation checks that help determine the completeness and accuracy of the prices. These validation
checks are reviewed by management and, based on the results, may be subject to additional review and investigation. We also review securities with no price changes (stale prices) and securities with zero values.   
  We have a surveillance process in place to monitor the accuracy of prices provided by the pricing sources. We utilize a hierarchy that compares security
prices obtained from multiple pricing sources against established thresholds. Discrepancies that fall outside of these thresholds are challenged with the pricing services and adjusted if necessary.   
  If further research is required, we review and validate these prices with the pricing sources. We also validate prices from pricing sources by comparing
prices received to actual observed prices from actions such as purchases and sales, when possible.        Level 3   Securities  
  Where we have used our own cash flow models, which included a significant input into the model that was deemed unobservable, to estimate the value of securities, we classify them in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy. More than 99% of our
securities are valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Less than 1% of our securities are priced based on economic models and non-binding dealer quotes, and are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
     See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of our securities by ASC 820 hierarchy level.

Fair value   Derivative financial instruments    
    Level 1   Derivative financial instruments     Includes derivative financial instruments that are actively traded on exchanges,
principally foreign exchange futures, listed options and foreign exchange forward contracts.        Level 2   Derivative financial
instruments     Includes the majority of our derivative financial instruments priced using internally developed models that use observable inputs for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, option volatilities and other factors. The
valuation process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity and concentration concerns.        Level 3
  Derivative financial instruments     Certain derivatives that are highly structured require significant judgment and analysis to adjust the value determined by standard pricing models. These derivatives are included in Level 3 of
the ASC 820 hierarchy and comprise less than 1% of our derivative financial instruments at fair value.      To test the appropriateness of the
valuations, we subject the models to review and approval by an independent internal risk management function, benchmark the models against similar instruments and validate model estimates to actual cash transactions. In addition, we perform detailed
reviews and analyses of profit and loss. Valuation adjustments are determined and controlled by a function independent of the area initiating the risk position. As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain products becomes more
transparent, we refine our valuation methods. Any changes to the valuation models are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.      To confirm that our valuation policies are consistent with exit prices as prescribed by ASC 820, we review our derivative valuations using recent transactions in the marketplace, pricing services and the
results of similar types of transactions. In determining fair value for these instruments, observable inputs are utilized where available as required by ASC 820.      For details of our derivative financial instruments by ASC 820 hierarchy level, see Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Fair value option       ASC 825 provides the option to elect fair value as an alternative
measurement basis for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm

36     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

commitments and written loan commitments which are not subject to fair value under other accounting standards. Under ASC 825, fair value is used for both the initial and subsequent measurement of
the designated assets, liabilities and commitments, with the changes in fair value recognized in income. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure regarding the fair value option.   
   Fair value   Judgments       In times
of illiquid markets and financial stress, actual prices and valuations may significantly diverge from results predicted by models. In addition, other factors can affect our estimate of fair value, including market dislocations, incorrect model
assumptions, and unexpected correlations. These valuation methods could expose us to materially different results should the models used or underlying assumptions be inaccurate. See  Basis of presentation  in Note 1 to the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.       Other-than-temporary impairment       The guidance included in ASC 320 defines the other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) model for investments in debt securities. Under this guidance, a debt security is considered impaired if its
fair value is less than its amortized cost basis. An OTTI is triggered if (1) the intent is to sell the security, (2) the security will more likely than not have to be sold before the impairment is recovered, or (3) the amortized cost
basis is not expected to be recovered. When an entity does not intend to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis, it will recognize the credit component of an OTTI of a debt security in earnings and the remaining portion in accumulated
other comprehensive income.      The determination of whether a credit loss exists is based on best estimates of the present value of cash flows
to be collected from the debt security. Generally, cash flows are discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security at the time of acquisition. For debt securities that are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets
and are not high credit quality, ASC 325 provides that cash flows be discounted at the current yield used to accrete the beneficial interest.   
  For each security in the investment securities portfolio (including, but not limited to, those whose fair value is less than their amortized cost basis),
an extensive, regular review is conducted to determine if an OTTI

has occurred. For example, to determine if an unrealized loss on non-agency RMBS is other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying assets (mortgages) and multiply
that calculated amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity) in order to determine the projected collateral loss. We also evaluate the current credit enhancement underlying the bond to determine
the impact on cash flows. If we determine that a given RMBS will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a charge to earnings.      In 2012, improving home prices helped to stabilize the credit performance of non-agency RMBS transactions. This in turn enabled us to maintain generally stable assumptions for these transactions
throughout the year with regard to estimated defaults and the amount we expect to receive to cover the value of the original loan. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for projected weighted-average default rates and loss
severities at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011 for the 2007, 2006 and late-2005 non-agency RMBS and the securities previously held in the Grantor Trust we established in connection with the restructuring of our investment securities portfolio in 2009. If
actual delinquencies, default rates and loss severity assumptions worsen, we would expect additional impairment losses to be recorded in future periods.      Net securities gains in 2012 were $162 million compared with $48 million in 2011. The low interest rate environment in 2012 created the opportunity for us to realize gains as we rebalanced and managed the
duration risk of the investment securities portfolio.      If we were to increase or decrease each of our projected loss severity and default
rates by 100 basis points on each of the positions in our Alt-A, subprime and prime RMBS portfolios, including the securities previously held by the Grantor Trust, credit-related impairment charges on these securities would have increased by $1
million (pre-tax) or decreased by less than $1 million (pre-tax) at Dec. 31, 2012.       Goodwill and other intangibles    
  We initially record all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other intangibles,
in accordance with ASC 805  Business Combinations . Goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other intangibles are subsequently accounted for in accordance with ASC 350  Intangibles   Goodwill and Other.  The initial measurement of
goodwill and intangibles requires judgment concerning estimates of the fair value of the

BNY
Mellon     37   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

acquired assets and liabilities. Goodwill ($18.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012) and indefinite-lived intangible assets ($2.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2012) are not amortized but subject to tests for
impairment annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not they may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment if events or circumstances
indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.      BNY Mellon s three business segments include seven reporting units for
which annual goodwill impairment testing is done in accordance with ASC 350. The Investment Management segment is comprised of two reporting units; the Investment Services segment is comprised of four reporting units; and one reporting unit is
included in the Other segment.      The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the estimated fair value of
the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the
reporting unit were to exceed its estimated fair value, a second step would be performed that would compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded
to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. A substantial goodwill impairment charge would not have a significant impact on our financial condition, but could have an adverse impact on our results of
operations. In addition, due to regulatory restrictions, the Company s subsidiary banks could be restricted from distributing available cash to the Parent resulting in the Parent needing to issue additional long-term debt.   
  GAAP also requires that an interim test be done whenever events or circumstances occur that may indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair
value of any reporting unit might be less than its carrying value. The broad decline of stock prices throughout the U.S. stock market in the second half of 2011 also impacted the Company s stock price, which declined below the Company s
net book value per share. As a result of this sustained decline in the second half of 2011, the Company performed an interim goodwill test on the Asset Management business during the first quarter of 2012. We concluded the Asset Management reporting
unit, which is one of the two reporting units in the Investment Management segment, exceeded its carrying value at that time.

In the second quarter of 2012, we performed our annual goodwill test on all seven reporting units using an
income approach to estimate the fair values of each reporting unit. Estimated cash flows used in the income approach were based on management s projections as of April 1, 2012. The discount rate applied to these cash flows ranged from 10%
to 12.25% and incorporated a 7% market equity risk premium. Estimated cash flows extend far into the future, and, by their nature, are difficult to estimate over such an extended time frame.      As of the date of the annual test, the fair values of six of the Company s reporting units were substantially in excess of the respective reporting units  carrying value. The fair value of the
Asset Management reporting unit, which is one of the two reporting units in the Investment Management segment, exceeded its carrying value by approximately 15%. The Asset Management reporting unit has $7.7 billion of allocated goodwill. For the
Asset Management reporting unit, in the future, small changes in the assumptions could produce a non-cash goodwill impairment, which would have no effect on our regulatory capital ratios. In addition, certain money market fee waiver practices and
changes in the level of assets under management could have an effect on Asset Management broadly, as well as the fair value of this reporting unit.      Key judgments in accounting for intangibles include useful life and classification between goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles or other intangibles requiring amortization.   
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually by comparing their fair values, estimated using discounted cash flow
analyses, to their carrying values. Other amortizing intangible assets ($2.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012) are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Such evaluation of other intangible assets is initially
based on undiscounted cash flow projections.      See Notes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding goodwill, intangible assets and the annual and interim impairment testing.       Pension accounting    
  BNY Mellon has defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 20,900 U.S. employees and approximately 10,600 non-U.S. employees.

38     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   BNY Mellon has two qualified and several non-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and
several pension plans overseas. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the U.S. plans accounted for 82% of the projected benefit obligation. The pension expense for BNY Mellon plans was $141 million in 2012 compared with $93 million in 2011 and $47 million in 2010.
     Effective Jan. 1, 2011, the U.S. pension plan was amended to reduce benefits earned by participants for service after 2010, and to freeze
plan participation such that no new employees will enter the plan after Dec. 31, 2010. This change in the pension plan reduced pension expense by $40 million in 2011.      A net pension expense of $187 million is expected to be recorded by BNY Mellon in 2013, assuming currency exchange rates at Dec. 31, 2012. The expected increase in pension expense in 2013 is primarily
driven by a decrease in the discount rate for the U.S. and foreign plans. The discount rate is discussed below.      BNY Mellon made a
discretionary contribution of $400 million to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Pension Plan in December 2012. The contribution did not impact pension expense in 2012.      A number of key assumption and measurement date values determine pension expense. The key elements include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, the market-related value of plan
assets and the price used to value stock in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ). Since 2010, these key elements have varied as follows:       

(a)   
   Market-related value of plan assets and ESOP stock price are for the beginning of the plan year. See  Summary of significant accounting and reporting
policies  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The discount rate for U.S. pension plans was determined after reviewing equivalent rates obtained by
discounting the pension plans  expected cash flows using various high-quality, long-term corporate bond yield curves. We also reviewed the results of several models that matched bonds to our pension cash flows. After reviewing the various
indices and models, we selected a discount rate of 4.25% as of Dec. 31, 2012.      The discount rates for foreign pension plans are based on
high-quality corporate bond rates in countries that have an active corporate bond market. In those countries with no active corporate bond market, discount rates are based on local government bond rates plus a credit spread.   
  Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each applicable asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted
for the expected allocation for each asset class. Anticipated returns are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We also consider the
growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      The market-related value of plan assets also
influences the level of pension expense. Differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over five years to compute an actuarially derived market-related value of plan assets.      Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the future service period of active employees if they exceed a threshold amount. BNY Mellon currently has $2.2 billion of unrecognized losses
which are being amortized.      The annual impacts of hypothetical changes in the key assumptions on pension costs are shown in the table below.

BNY
Mellon     39   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In addition to its pension plans, BNY Mellon has an ESOP. Benefits payable under The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation Pension Plan are offset by the equivalent value of benefits earned under the ESOP for employees who participated in the legacy Retirement Plan of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.   
     Consolidated balance sheet review       At Dec. 31, 2012, total assets were $359 billion compared with $325 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. Total assets averaged $315 billion in 2012, compared with $291 billion in 2011. The increase in period-end and
average total assets primarily resulted from an increase in the level of client deposits. Deposits totaled $246 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, and $219 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. Total deposits averaged $204 billion in 2012 and $183 billion in 2011. At
Dec. 31, 2012, total interest-bearing deposits were 52% of total interest-earning assets compared with 48% at Dec. 31, 2011.      At Dec. 31,
2012, we had $50 billion of liquid funds and $95 billion of cash (including $90 billion of overnight deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks) for a total of $145 billion of available funds. This compares with available funds of
$135 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in available funds resulted from the higher level of customer deposits. Our percentage of available funds to total assets was 40% at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with 42% at Dec. 31, 2011. The decrease in the
percentage of available funds to total assets was primarily due to increased investments in high quality investment securities and higher loan levels. Of the $50 billion in liquid funds held at Dec. 31, 2012, $44 billion was placed in
interest-bearing deposits with large, highly-rated global financial institutions with a weighted-average life to maturity of approximately 50 days. Of the $44 billion, $8 billion was placed with banks in the Eurozone.   
  Investment securities were $101 billion or 28% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2012, compared with $82 billion or 25% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2011.
The increase primarily reflects larger investments in agency RMBS and state and political subdivision securities, as well as an improvement in the unrealized gain of our investment securities portfolio.   
  Loans were $47 billion or 13% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2012, compared with $44 billion or 14% of total

assets at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in loan levels primarily reflects higher wealth management loans and mortgages, margin loans and overdrafts.   
  Long-term debt decreased to $18.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 from $19.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, primarily due to the maturity of $3.2 billion of senior
debt and $300 million of subordinated debt, as well as the redemption of $1.1 billion of junior subordinated debentures, partially offset by the issuance of $3.25 billion of senior debt in 2012.   
  Total shareholders  equity applicable to BNY Mellon was $36.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 and $33.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in total
shareholders  equity primarily reflects earnings retention, the issuance of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and an increase in the valuation of our investment securities portfolio, partially offset by share repurchases. In 2012, we
issued $1,068 million, net of issuance costs, of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock which qualifies as Tier 1 capital under the NPRs released in 2012.      BNY Mellon, through its involvement in the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, settles government securities transactions on a net basis for payment and delivery through the Fed wire system. As a result,
at Dec. 31, 2012, the assets and liabilities of BNY Mellon were reduced by $137 million for the netting of repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreement transactions executed with the same counterparty under standardized Master Repurchase
Agreements. This netting is performed in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 41 (ASC Topic 210-20)  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase
Agreements.        Investment securities       In the discussion of our investment securities portfolio, we have included certain credit ratings information because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and
significant changes in ratings classifications for our investment portfolio could indicate increased credit risk for us and could be accompanied by a reduction in the fair value of our investment securities portfolio.

40     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following table shows the distribution of our total investment securities portfolio:   

(a)   
   Amortized cost before impairments.      

(b)   
   Primarily comprised of exposure to UK, Netherlands, Germany and France.      

(c)   
   These RMBS were included in the former Grantor Trust and were marked-to-market in 2009. We believe these RMBS would receive higher credit ratings if these ratings
incorporated, as additional credit enhancement, the difference between the written-down amortized cost and the current face amount of each of these securities.      

(d)   
   Includes RMBS, commercial MBS and other securities. Primarily comprised of exposure to UK and Netherlands.      

(e)   
   Primarily comprised of exposure to Canada, Germany and UK.      

The fair value of our investment securities portfolio was $100.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with
$81.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in the fair value of the investment securities portfolio primarily reflects larger investments in agency RMBS and state and political subdivision securities, as well as an improvement in the unrealized
gain of our investment securities. In 2012, we received $885 million of paydowns and sold $98 million of sub-investment grade securities.      At
Dec. 31, 2012, the total investment securities portfolio had an unrealized pre-tax net gain of $2.4 billion compared with $793 million at Dec. 31, 2011. The improvement in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was primarily driven by
a decline in interest rates and improved credit spreads. The unrealized net of tax gain on our investment securities available-for-sale portfolio included in accumulated

other comprehensive income was $1.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, compared with $417 million at Dec. 31, 2011.      At Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, 89% of the securities in our portfolio were rated AAA/AA-.   
  We routinely test our investment securities for OTTI. (See  Critical accounting estimates  for additional disclosure regarding OTTI.)
     At Dec. 31, 2012, we had $871 million of accretable discount related to the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio. The
discount related to these transactions had a remaining average life of approximately 5.3 years. The accretion of discount related to these securities increased net interest revenue and was recorded on a level yield basis. The discount accretion
totaled $281 million in 2012 and $391 million in 2011.   

BNY
Mellon     41   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Also, at Dec. 31, 2012, we had $2.5 billion of net amortizable purchase premium relating to investment
securities with a remaining average life of approximately 4.2 years. For these securities, the amortization of net premium decreased net interest revenue and is recorded on a level yield basis. We recorded net premium amortization of $504 million in
2012 and $294 million in 2011.      The following table provides pre-tax securities gains (losses) by type.   
   
    At Dec. 31, 2012, the investment securities portfolio included $35 million of assets not accruing interest. These
securities are held at market value.      The following table shows the fair value of the European floating rate notes by geographical location at
Dec. 31, 2012. The unrealized loss on these securities was $121 million at Dec. 31, 2012, an improvement of 65% compared with $347 million at Dec. 31, 2011.       

(a)   
   73% of these securities are in the AAA to AA- ratings category.         See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the detail of securities by level in the fair value hierarchy.

Equity investments       Our equity investments are primarily categorized as other assets. Included in other assets are (parenthetical amounts indicate carrying values at Dec. 31, 2012): joint ventures and other equity
investments ($1.5 billion), seed capital ($158 million), Federal Reserve Bank stock ($436 million), private equity investments ($99 million), and tax advantaged low-income housing investments ($489 million). For additional information on the fair
value of our private equity investments and certain seed capital, see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Our equity
investment in Wing Hang, which is located in Hong Kong, had a fair value of $651 million (book value of $449 million) based on its share price at Dec. 31, 2012. An agreement with certain other shareholders of Wing Hang prohibits the sale of
this interest without their permission. We received a stock dividend from Wing Hang with a value of $14 million (or 1.5 million shares) in 2012 and a stock dividend of $12 million (or 1.1 million shares) in 2011. In 2010, we received cash
dividends from Wing Hang of $6 million.      Private equity activities consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings, and
direct equity investments. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to these activities. The carrying and fair value of our private equity investments was $99 million at Dec. 31, 2012, down $23
million from $122 million at Dec. 31, 2011. At Dec. 31, 2012, private equity investments consisted of investments in private equity funds of $91 million, direct equity of less than $1 million, and leveraged bond funds of $7 million. Investment
income was $8 million in 2012.      At Dec. 31, 2012, we had $13 million of unfunded investment commitments to private equity funds. If unused,
the commitments expire between 2013 and 2017.      Commitments to private equity limited partnerships may extend beyond the expiration period
shown above to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and liabilities, and organizational and partnership expenses.   

42     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Loans       

At Dec. 31, 2012, total exposures were $85.3 billion, an increase of 7% from $79.5 billion at Dec. 31,
2011. The increase in total exposure was generally broad-based across most portfolios and reflects:       

loan growth in Private Wealth, margin secured lending to financial institutions and commercial real estate; and      

an increase in unfunded commitments resulting from a renewed effort to grow our Public

Finance portfolio as well as to continue to support client relationships where revenue growth opportunities exist.         Our financial institutions and commercial portfolios comprise our largest concentrated risk. These portfolios make up 55% of our total lending exposure. Additionally, a substantial portion of our
overdrafts relate to financial institutions and commercial customers.   

Financial institutions
      The diversity of the financial institutions portfolio is shown in the following table.   

The financial institutions portfolio exposure was $27.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $26.6
billion at Dec. 31, 2011, primarily reflecting higher exposure to asset managers and governments, partially offset by lower exposure to banks and insurance companies.

Financial institution exposures are high quality, with 93% of the exposures meeting the investment grade
equivalent criteria of our rating system at Dec. 31, 2012. These exposures are generally short-term. Of these exposures, 69% expire within one year, and 33% expire within 90 days. In addition, 42% of the financial institutions exposure is secured.
For example, securities industry and asset managers often borrow against marketable securities held in custody.   

BNY
Mellon     43   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   For ratings of non-U.S. counterparties, as a conservative measure, our internal credit rating
classification generally caps the rating based upon the sovereign rating of the country where the counterparty resides regardless of the credit rating of the counterparty or the underlying collateral.   
  Our bank exposure primarily relates to our global trade finance and U.S. dollar-clearing businesses.

These exposures are predominately to investment grade counterparties and are short term in nature.      The asset manager portfolio exposures are high- quality, with 99% of the exposures meeting our investment grade equivalent ratings criteria as of Dec. 31, 2012. These exposures are generally short-term
liquidity facilities, with the vast majority to regulated mutual funds.   

Commercial    
  The diversity of the commercial portfolio is shown in the following table.   

The commercial portfolio exposure increased 12% to $19.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, from $17.6 billion at
Dec. 31, 2011, primarily reflecting an increase in exposure in the services and other portfolios and energy and utilities.      Our goal is to
maintain a predominantly investment grade portfolio. The table below summarizes the percent of the financial institutions and commercial exposures that are investment grade.   
   
    Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities and avoid single
name/industry concentrations. Each customer is assigned an internal rating grade, which is mapped to an equivalent external rating agency grade based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time. The execution
of our strategy has resulted in 93% of both our financial institutions and commercial portfolios rated as investment grade at Dec. 31, 2012.   
   Wealth management loans and mortgages    
  Our Wealth management exposure was $10.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $8.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. Wealth management loans and mortgages are
primarily comprised of loans to high-net-worth

individuals, which are secured by marketable securities and/or residential property. Wealth management mortgages are primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan to
value ratio of 63% at origination. In the wealth management portfolio, 1% of the mortgages were past due at Dec. 31, 2012.      At Dec. 31, 2012,
the wealth management mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following geographic concentrations: New York   22%; California   19%; Massachusetts   17%; Florida   8%; and other   34%.   
   Commercial real estate       Our commercial
real estate facilities are focused on experienced owners and are structured with moderate leverage based on existing cash flows. Our commercial real estate lending activities include both construction facilities and medium-term loans. Our client
base consists of experienced developers and long-term holders of real estate assets. Loans are approved on the basis of existing or projected cash flow, and supported by appraisals and knowledge of local market conditions. Development loans are
structured with moderate leverage, and in most instances, involve some level of recourse to the developer. Our commercial real estate exposure totaled $3.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $3.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2011.   
  At Dec. 31, 2012, 57% of our commercial real estate portfolio is secured. The secured portfolio is diverse

44     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

by project type, with 55% secured by residential buildings, 18% secured by office buildings, 10% secured by retail properties, and 17% secured by other categories. Approximately 91% of the
unsecured portfolio is allocated to investment grade real estate investment trusts ( REITs ) under revolving credit agreements.      At
Dec. 31, 2012, our commercial real estate portfolio is comprised of the following concentrations: New York metro   46%; investment grade REITs   41%; and other   13%.       Lease financings       The leasing portfolio exposure totaled $2.4 billion and included $191
million of airline exposures at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $2.6 billion of leasing exposures, including $197 million of airline exposures, at Dec. 31, 2011. At Dec. 31, 2012, approximately 85% of the leasing exposure was investment grade.
     At Dec. 31, 2012, the $2.2 billion non-airline lease financing portfolio consisted of exposures backed by well-diversified assets, primarily
large-ticket transportation equipment. The largest component is rail, consisting of both passenger and freight trains. Assets are both domestic and foreign-based, with primary concentrations in the United States and Germany. Approximately 48% of the
non-airline portfolio is additionally secured by highly rated securities and/or letters of credit from investment grade issuers. Excluding airline lease financing, counterparty rating equivalents at Dec. 31, 2012, were as follows:   

1% of the counterparties are AA, or equivalent;      

15% were non-investment grade.         At Dec. 31, 2012, our $191 million of exposure to the airline industry consisted of $68 million to major U.S. carriers, $107 million to foreign airlines and $16 million to U.S. regional airlines.
     Despite the significant improvement in revenues and yields that the U.S domestic airline industry achieved in the past year, high fuel prices
pose a significant challenge for these carriers. Combined with their high fixed cost operating models, extremely high debt levels and sensitivity to economic cycles, the domestic airlines remain vulnerable. As such, we continue to maintain a sizable
allowance for loan losses against these exposures and continue to closely monitor the portfolio.

We utilize the lease financing portfolio as part of our tax management strategy.   
   Other residential mortgages       The other
residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and totaled $1,632 million at Dec. 31, 2012, compared with $1,923 million at Dec. 31, 2011. Included in this portfolio at Dec. 31, 2012 are $497 million of
mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the purchased loans in this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value
ratio of 75% at origination and 24% of these loans were at least 60 days delinquent. The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in California, Florida, Virginia, Maryland and the tri-state
area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut).      To determine the projected loss on the prime and Alt-A mortgage portfolio, we calculate the
total estimated defaults of these mortgages and multiply that amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale in the marketplace (severity).      At Dec. 31, 2012, we had $12 million in subprime mortgages included in the other residential mortgage portfolio. The subprime loans were issued to support our Community Reinvestment Act requirements.
      Overdrafts       Overdrafts
primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business days.   
   Other loans       Other loans primarily
included loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities, as well as bankers  acceptances.       Margin loans       Margin loans are collateralized with marketable securities and borrowers are
required to maintain a daily collateral margin in excess of 100% of the value of the loan. Margin loans included $5.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 and $5.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 of loans related to a term loan program that offers fully
collateralized loans to broker-dealers.   

BNY
Mellon     45   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Loans by product       The following table shows trends in the loans outstanding at year-end over the last five years.       

(a)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis.      

Maturity of loan portfolio       The following table shows the maturity structure of our loan portfolio at Dec. 31, 2012.       

(a)   
   Excludes loans collateralized by residential properties, lease financings and wealth management loans and mortgages.      

(b)   
   Variable rate loans due after one year totaled $3.5 billion and fixed rate loans totaled $432 million.

International loans       We have credit relationships in the international markets, particularly in areas associated with our securities servicing and trade finance activities. Excluding lease financings, these activities
resulted in outstanding international loans of $9.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 and $9.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase primarily resulted from higher overdrafts, partially offset by a decrease in loans to financial institutions.   
   Asset quality and allowance for credit losses    
  Over the past several years, we have improved our risk profile through greater focus on clients who are active users of our non-credit services,
de-emphasizing broad-based loan growth. Our primary exposure to the credit risk of a customer consists of funded loans, unfunded formal contractual commitments to lend, standby letters of credit and overdrafts associated with our custody and
securities clearance businesses.      The role of credit has shifted to one that complements our other services instead of as a lead product.
Credit solidifies customer relationships and, through a disciplined allocation of capital, can earn acceptable rates of return as part of an overall relationship.

46     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following table details changes in our allowance for credit losses for the last five years.

BNY
Mellon     47   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Net charge-offs were $30 million in 2012, $75 million in 2011 and $68 million in 2010. Net charge-offs in
2012 included $16 million of other residential mortgages primarily located in California, Florida and New Jersey and $13 million of loans in the financial institutions portfolio. Net charge-offs in 2011 included $53 million of other residential
mortgages primarily located in California, Florida, New York      and New Jersey, a $10 million loan in the media portfolio and $6 million related
to a broker-dealer holding company that filed for bankruptcy. Net charge-offs in 2010 included $44 million of other residential mortgages primarily located in California, New York and Florida, $17 million related to a mortgage company, partially
offset by $10 million of net recoveries from the media portfolio.      The provision for credit losses was a credit of $80 million in 2012.
The provision for credit losses was $1 million in 2011 and $11 million in 2010. The credit in 2012 primarily resulted from a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the residential mortgage loan portfolio. Our residential mortgage
loan portfolio has experienced better performance compared with aggregate industry historical losses. In 2012, we began using our actual loan loss experience rather than industry data to estimate the allowance for credit losses. We anticipate the
quarterly provision for credit losses to be approximately $0 to $15 million in 2013.      The total allowance for credit losses was $387 million
at Dec. 31, 2012 and $497 million at Dec. 31, 2011. The decrease in the allowance for credit losses was primarily driven by the use of BNY Mellon s actual loan loss experience used to estimate future losses related to the residential mortgage
loan portfolio.      The ratio of the total allowance for credit losses to year-end non-margin loans was 1.16% at Dec. 31, 2012 and 1.59% at Dec.
31, 2011. The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to year-end non-margin

loans was 0.80% at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with 1.26% at Dec. 31, 2011. The lower ratios at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with Dec. 31, 2011 primarily reflect the decrease in the allowance for credit
losses related to the residential mortgage loan portfolio.      We had $13.4 billion of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2012
compared with $12.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to them. As a result, we believe that the ratio of total allowance for credit losses
to non-margin loans is a more appropriate metric to measure the adequacy of the reserve.      Based on an evaluation of the allowance for credit
losses, as discussed in  Critical accounting estimates  and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have allocated our allowance for credit losses as follows:   

(b)   
   Includes the allowance for wealth management mortgages.         The allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the nature of the loss.

48     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Nonperforming assets       The following table shows the distribution of nonperforming assets at the end of each of the last five years.       

(b)   
   Loans of consolidated investment management funds are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio. Included in these loans are nonperforming loans of $174 million
at Dec. 31, 2012, $101 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and $218 million at Dec. 31, 2010. These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from
the nonperforming assets table above.      

Nonperforming assets were $249 million at Dec. 31, 2012, a decrease of $92 million compared with $341 million at Dec. 31,
2011. The decrease primarily resulted from repayments of $44 million in the other residential mortgage portfolio, $16 million in the financial institutions portfolio, $13 million in the commercial real estate portfolio, $9 million in the commercial
loan portfolio and $4 million in the wealth management portfolio. Charge-offs in 2012 were $20 million in the other residential mortgage portfolio and $5 million in the financial institutions portfolio. Also in 2012, $29 million in the other
residential mortgage portfolio and $10 million in the commercial real estate portfolio returned to accrual status. Additions in 2012 included $55 million in the other residential mortgage portfolio, $15 million in the commercial loan portfolio and
$5 million in the wealth management portfolio.   

The following table shows loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest.   
   
    Loans past due 90 days or more at Dec. 31, 2012 were primarily comprised of other residential mortgage loans. For
additional information, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Deposits    
  Total deposits were $246.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, an increase of 12% compared with $219.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in deposits reflects
a higher level of both foreign and domestic deposits resulting from higher client deposits in our Investment Services business.

BNY
Mellon     49   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Noninterest-bearing deposits were $93.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $95.3 billion at Dec. 31,
2011. Interest-bearing deposits were $153.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $123.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2011.      The aggregate amount of
deposits by foreign customers in domestic offices was $6.7 billion and $6.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      Deposits in
foreign offices totaled $107.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, and $85.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The majority of these deposits were in amounts in excess of $100,000 and were primarily overnight foreign deposits.   
  The following table shows the maturity breakdown of domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more at Dec. 31, 2012.   
   
     Short-term borrowings       We fund ourselves primarily through deposits and, to a lesser extent, other borrowings, which are comprised of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, payables to
customers and broker-dealers, commercial paper, other borrowed funds and long-term debt. Certain other borrowings, for example, securities sold under repurchase agreements, require the delivery of securities as collateral.   
  See  Liquidity and dividends  below for a discussion of long-term debt and liquidity metrics that we monitor.   
  Information related to federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements is presented below.   

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements were $7.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with
$12.5 billion at Sept. 30, 2012 and $6.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The decrease in federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements in the fourth quarter of 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in overnight rate opportunities
at year-end. The maximum daily balance in fourth quarter of 2012 was $20.0 billion compared with $15.7 billion in the third quarter of 2012. This increase resulted from attractive overnight borrowing opportunities during the fourth quarter. At Dec.
31, 2012, we earned revenue on securities sold under repurchase agreements related to certain securities for which we were able to charge a higher rate for lending them.      Information related to payables to customers and broker-dealers is presented below.       

50     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Payables to customers and broker-dealers represent funds awaiting re-investment and short sale proceeds payable on demand. Payables to customers and
broker-dealers were $16.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, $13.7 billion at Sept. 30, 2012 and $12.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. Payables to customers and broker-dealers are driven by customer trading activity levels and market volatility.   
  Information related to commercial paper is presented below.       
     
    Commercial paper outstanding was $338 million at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $1.3 billion at Sept. 30, 2012, and $10
million at Dec. 31, 2011. Average commercial paper outstanding was $819 million in 2012, $98 million in 2011 and $18 million 2010. The maximum daily balance in 2012 was $2.5 billion compared with $0.6 billion in 2011 and $0.1 billion in

2010. The increase in average commercial paper outstanding and the maximum daily borrowing in 2012 compared with 2011 and 2010 was primarily driven by attractive short-term borrowing
opportunities and Parent funding requirements. Our commercial paper matures within 397 days from date of issue and is not redeemable prior to maturity or subject to voluntary prepayment.      Information related to other borrowed funds is presented below.       
     
    Other borrowed funds primarily include borrowings under lines of credit by our Pershing subsidiaries and overdrafts of
sub-custodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses. Overdrafts in these accounts typically relate to timing differences for settlements. Other borrowed funds were $1.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $1.1 billion at Sept.
30, 2012 and $2.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. Other borrowed funds averaged $1.4 billion in 2012, $1.9 billion in 2011 and $2.0 billion in 2010. The decreases compared with both the prior period end and prior year average reflect a change in the
source of funding for our Pershing subsidiaries.         Liquidity and dividends    
  BNY Mellon defines liquidity as the ability of the Parent and its subsidiaries to access funding or convert assets to cash quickly and efficiently,
especially during periods of market stress. Liquidity risk is the risk that BNY Mellon cannot meet its cash and collateral obligations at a reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flows, without

BNY
Mellon     51   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

adversely affecting daily operations or financial conditions. Liquidity risk can arise from cash flow mismatches, market constraints from inability to convert assets to cash, inability to raise
cash in the markets, deposit run-off, or contingent liquidity events.      For additional information on our liquidity policy, see  Liquidity
risk  in the  Risk Management  section.      Our overall approach to liquidity management is to ensure that sources of liquidity
are sufficient in amount and diversity such that changes in funding requirements at the Parent and at the various bank subsidiaries can be accommodated routinely without material adverse impact on earnings, daily operations or our financial
condition.      BNY Mellon seeks to maintain an adequate liquidity cushion in both normal and stressed environments and seeks to diversify funding
sources by line of business, customer and market segment. Additionally, we seek to maintain liquidity ratios within approved limits and liquidity risk tolerance, maintain a liquid asset buffer that can be liquidated, financed and/or pledged as
necessary, and control the levels and sources of wholesale funds.      Potential uses of liquidity include withdrawals of customer deposits and
client drawdowns on unfunded credit or liquidity facilities. We actively monitor unfunded lending-related commitments, thereby reducing unanticipated funding requirements.      When monitoring liquidity, we evaluate multiple metrics to ensure ample liquidity for expected and unexpected events. Metrics include cashflow mismatches, asset maturities, access to debt and money
markets, debt spreads, peer ratios, liquid assets, unencumbered collateral, funding sources and balance sheet liquidity ratios. We monitor the Basel

III liquidity coverage ratio as applied to us, based on our current interpretation of Basel III. Ratios we currently monitor as part of our standard analysis include total loans as a percentage
of total deposits, deposits as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, foreign deposits as a percentage of total interest-earnings assets, purchased funds as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of
total interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of purchased funds, and discount window collateral and central bank deposits as a percentage of total deposits. All of these ratios exceeded our minimum guidelines at Dec. 31, 2012.
     We also perform liquidity stress tests to ensure the Company maintains sufficient liquidity resources under multiple stress scenarios. Stress
tests are based on scenarios that measure liquidity risks under unlikely but plausible events. The Company performs these tests under various time horizons ranging from one day to one year in a base case, as well as supplemental tests to determine
whether the Company s liquidity is sufficient for severe market events and firm-specific events. Under our scenario testing program, the results of the tests indicate that the Company has sufficient liquidity.   
  We define available funds as liquid funds (which include interest-bearing deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under
resale agreements), cash and due from banks, and interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks. The table below presents our total available funds including liquid funds at period end and on an average basis. The higher
level of available funds at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with Dec. 31, 2011 resulted from a higher level of client deposits, partially offset by the redeployment of funds on our balance sheet from interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and
other central banks as we increased the level of our securities portfolio.   

52     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   On an average basis for 2012 and 2011, non-core sources of funds such as money market rate accounts,
certificates of deposit greater than $100,000, federal funds purchased, trading liabilities and other borrowings were $21.5 billion and $17.2 billion, respectively. The increase primarily reflects higher levels of money market rate accounts, federal
funds purchased and commercial paper, partially offset by lower levels of trading liabilities and other borrowings. Average foreign deposits, primarily from our European-based Investment Services business, were $90.9 billion in 2012 compared with
$83.8 billion in 2011. The increase primarily reflects growth in client deposits. Domestic savings and other time deposits averaged $35.5 billion in 2012 compared with $36.2 billion in 2011. Deposit volumes could be impacted by proposed money
market fund reform.      Average payables to customers and broker-dealers were $8.0 billion in 2012 and $7.3 billion in 2011. Payables to
customers and broker-dealers are driven by customer trading activity and market volatility. Long-term debt averaged $19.9 billion in 2012 and $18.1 billion in 2011. The increase in average long-term debt was driven by planned capital actions and
anticipated maturities. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased to $70.0 billion in 2012 from $58.0 billion in 2011 reflecting growth in client deposits. A significant reduction in our Investment Services business would reduce our access
to deposits.      The Parent has four major sources of liquidity:   

cash on hand;      

dividends from its subsidiaries;      

access to the commercial paper market; and      

access to the long-term debt and equity markets.         Subsequent to Dec. 31, 2012, our bank subsidiaries could declare dividends to the Parent of approximately $2.7 billion without the need for a regulatory waiver. Including the impact of the approximately
$850 million charge related to the Feb. 11, 2013 U.S. Tax Court ruling, dividend paying capacity at our bank subsidiaries would decrease to $1.9 billion. In addition, at Dec. 31, 2012, non-bank subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of
approximately $1.4 billion.      In 2012, BNY Mellon paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per common share. The Federal Reserve s
current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding

30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. BNY Mellon s common stock dividend payout ratio was 26% in 2012.   
  Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries are discussed in more detail in  Supervision and Regulation   Capital
Planning-Payment of Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Other Capital Distributions  and in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      In 2012 and 2011, the Parent s average commercial paper borrowings were $819 million and $98 million, respectively. The Parent had cash of $4.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, compared with $4.6
billion at Dec. 31, 2011. In addition to issuing commercial paper for funding purposes, the Parent issues commercial paper, on an overnight basis, to certain custody clients with excess demand deposit balances. Overnight commercial paper outstanding
issued by the Parent was $338 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $10 million at Dec. 31, 2011. Net of commercial paper outstanding, the Parent s cash position at Dec. 31, 2012, decreased by $902 million compared with Dec. 31, 2011, primarily
reflecting increased loans to subsidiaries, which replaced external funding sources, and share repurchases.      The Parent s major uses of
funds are payment of dividends, repurchases of common stock, principal and interest payments on its borrowings, acquisitions and additional investments in its subsidiaries.      In 2012, we repurchased 49.8 million common shares in the open market at an average price of $22.38 per share for a total of $1.12 billion.   
  The Parent s liquidity policy is to have sufficient cash on hand to meet its obligations over the next 18 to 24 months without the need to
receive dividends from its bank subsidiaries or issue debt. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the Parent was in compliance with its liquidity policy.   
  In addition to our other funding sources, we also have the ability to access the capital markets. In June 2010, we filed shelf registration statements on
Form S-3 with the SEC covering the issuance of certain securities, including an unlimited amount of debt, common stock, preferred stock and trust preferred securities, as well as common stock issued under the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend
Reinvestment Plans. These registration statements will expire in June 2013, at which time we plan to file new shelf registration statements.

BNY
Mellon     53   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Our ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, is partially dependent on our
credit ratings, which, as of Dec. 31, 2012, were as follows:       

Credit ratings at Dec. 31, 2012   

Moody s  

S P  

Fitch  

DBRS   
 
   Parent:   

Long-term senior debt   

Aa3  

A+  

AA-  

AA (low)   
 
    Subordinated debt   

A1  

A  

A+  

A (high)   
 
    Trust-preferred securities   

A2  

BBB  

BBB+  

A (high)   
 
    Short-term debt   

P1  

A-1  

F1+  

R-1 (middle)   
 
     Outlook   Parent:    

Negative  

Negative  

Stable  

Stable   

The Bank of New York Mellon:     
 
    Long-term senior debt   

Aa1  

AA-  

AA-  

AA   
 
    Long-term deposits   

Aa1  

AA-  

AA  

AA   
 
    Short-term deposits   

P1  

A-1+  

F1+  

R-1 (high)   

BNY Mellon, N.A.:    

Long-term senior debt   

Aa1  

AA-  

AA-    
   (a)   
     
  AA   
 
    Long-term deposits   

Aa1  

AA-  

AA  

AA   
 
    Short-term deposits   

P1  

A-1+  

F1+  

R-1 (high)   

Outlook   Banks:    

Stable  

Negative  

Stable  

Stable   

(a)   
   Represents senior debt issuer default rating.         As a result of Moody s and S P s government support assumptions on U.S. financial institutions, the Parent s Moody s and S P ratings benefit from one notch of
 lift . Similarly, The Bank of New York Mellon s and BNY Mellon, N.A. s ratings benefit from two notches of  lift  from Moody s and one notch of  lift  from S P.   
  In March 2012, Moody s downgraded BNY Mellon s long-term senior and subordinated debt and trust-preferred securities ratings as well as the
long-term debt and deposit ratings of the bank subsidiaries. The Parent s long-term senior debt rating declined from Aa2 to Aa3. The long-term senior debt ratings of both The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. declined from Aaa to
Aa1. All short-term ratings for BNY Mellon were affirmed at Prime-1 and are unaffected by this action.      In 2013, Moody s, S P, Fitch
and DBRS reaffirmed all of our credit ratings.      Long-term debt decreased to $18.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 from $19.9 billion at Dec. 31,
2011, primarily due to the maturity of $3.2 billion of senior debt and $300 million of subordinated debt, as well as the redemption of $1.1 billion of junior subordinated debentures, partially offset by the issuance of $3.25 billion of senior
debt, summarized in the following table.   

The Parent has $1.6 billion of long-term debt that will mature in 2013 and has the option to call $407 million of
subordinated debt in 2013, which it may call and refinance if market conditions are favorable.      At Dec. 31, 2011, our trust preferred
securities included $500 million of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities ( PCS ) issued by Mellon Capital IV. As contractually obligated under the terms of the PCS, a remarketing occurred in May 2012. In this
remarketing, junior subordinated notes issued by BNY Mellon and held by Mellon Capital IV were sold to third party investors and then exchanged for BNY Mellon s senior notes, which were sold in a public offering. The proceeds of the sale of the
senior notes were used to fund the purchase by Mellon Capital IV of $500 million of BNY Mellon s Series A non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock ( Series A preferred stock ), which was issued on June 20, 2012. As a result of
the remarketing, the PCS are expected to pay distributions at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR plus 0.565% for the related distribution period; or (ii) 4.000%.   
  In 2012, BNY Mellon issued 23.3 million depositary shares (the  Series C Depositary Shares ), each representing a 1/4,000th interest in a
share of BNY Mellon s Series C Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the  Series C preferred stock ). The proceeds of the offering totaled $568 million, net of issuance costs. BNY Mellon will pay dividends on the Series C preferred
stock, if declared by our board of directors, at an annual rate of 5.2%.      At Dec. 31, 2012, we had $623 million of trust preferred securities
outstanding that qualify as Tier 1 capital, including $300 million that are currently callable. On Nov. 26, 2012, BNY Mellon redeemed all outstanding 6.875% Trust Preferred Securities, Series E, issued by BNY Capital IV (liquidation amount $25 per
security and $200 million in the aggregate) and all outstanding 5.95% Trust Preferred

54     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Securities, Series F, issued by BNY Capital V (liquidation amount $25 per security and $350 million in the aggregate). Any decision to take action with respect to the remaining trust preferred
securities will be based on several considerations including interest rates, the availability of cash and capital, as well as the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act  or
 Dodd-Frank ).      The double leverage ratio is the ratio of investment in subsidiaries divided by our consolidated equity, which
included our noncumulative perpetual preferred stock plus trust preferred securities. Our double leverage ratio was 109.9 % at Dec. 31, 2012 and 107.3% at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in the ratio primarily reflects greater retained capital at
our bank subsidiaries. The double leverage ratio is monitored by regulators and rating agencies and is an important constraint on our ability to invest in our subsidiaries and expand our businesses.   
  Pershing LLC, an indirect subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines of credit in place for liquidity purposes which are guaranteed by
the Parent. The committed line of credit of $750 million extended by 17 financial institutions matures in March 2013. Average daily borrowings against these lines was $51 million in 2012. Pershing LLC has nine separate uncommitted lines of credit
amounting to $1.6 billion in aggregate. Average daily borrowing under these lines was $237 million, in aggregate, during 2012.      The
committed line of credit maintained by Pershing LLC requires the Parent to maintain:       

shareholders  equity of $10 billion;      

a ratio of Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5; and      

a double leverage ratio less than 130%.         We are currently in compliance with these covenants.      Pershing Limited, an indirect UK-based
subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has uncommitted lines of credit in place

for liquidity purposes, which are guaranteed by the Parent. Pershing Limited has two separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $250 million in aggregate. Average daily borrowing
under these lines was $48 million, in aggregate, during 2012.       Statement of cash flows    
  Cash provided by operating activities was $1.6 billion in 2012 compared to $2.2 billion in 2011 and $4.1 billion in 2010. In 2012, cash flows from
operations were principally the result of earnings, partially offset by changes in trading activities. In 2011 and 2010, the cash flows from operations were principally the result of earnings.   
  In 2012, cash used for investing activities was $29.4 billion compared to $80.2 billion in 2011 and $14.9 billion in 2010. In 2012, purchases of
securities, and increases in interest-bearing deposits with banks, partially offset by sales, paydowns and maturities of securities, were significant uses of funds. In 2011, increases in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other
central banks, and the purchase of securities, partially offset by a decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks and sales, paydowns and maturities of securities, were significant uses of funds. In 2010, purchases of securities
available-for-sale, an increase in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and the Acquisitions, partially offset by sales, paydowns and maturities of securities, were a significant use of funds.   
  In 2012, cash provided by financing activities was $28.3 billion compared with $78.8 billion in 2011 and $10.8 billion in 2010. In 2012, changes in
deposits and payables to customers and broker dealers were significant sources of funds. In 2011, changes in deposits and payables to customers and broker-dealers and proceeds from issuances of long-term debt were significant sources of funds. In
2010, change in deposits, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements and other funds borrowed were significant sources of funds.

BNY
Mellon     55   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
      Commitments and obligations    
  We have contractual obligations to make fixed and determinable payments to third parties as indicated in

the table below. The table excludes certain obligations such as trade payables and trading liabilities, where the obligation is short-term or subject to valuation based on market factors.

(a)   
   Includes commercial paper.      

(b)   
   Includes interest.         We have entered into
fixed and determinable commitments as indicated in the table below:       

(a)   
   Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms.

(b)   
   Includes private equity and Community Reinvestment Act commitments.      

In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, at Dec. 31, 2012, $340 million of unrecognized tax
benefits have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential interest of $35 million. At this point, it is not possible to determine when these
amounts will be settled or resolved.      See  Liquidity and dividends  and Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for a further discussion of the source of funds for our commitments and obligations and known material trends in our capital resources.

Off-balance sheet arrangements    
  Off-balance sheet arrangements discussed in this section are limited to guarantees, retained or contingent interests, support agreements, and obligations
arising out of unconsolidated variable interest entities. For BNY Mellon, these items include certain credit guarantees and securitizations. Guarantees include: lending-related guarantees issued as part of our corporate banking business, and
securities lending indemnifications issued as part of our servicing and fiduciary businesses. See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements.

56     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Capital    

(a)   
   See  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 106 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.

Total The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders  equity increased compared with
Dec. 31, 2011. The increase primarily reflects earnings retention, the issuance of $1.1 billion of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, net of issuance costs and the increased value of our investment securities portfolio, partially offset
by share repurchases.      During 2012, we repurchased 49.8 million common shares in the open market, at an average price of $22.38 per
common share for a total of $1.12 billion. Our capital plan for 2012 authorized the repurchase of up to $1.16 billion worth of common shares, or no more than $290 million per quarter, including both open market purchases and employee benefit plan
repurchases, from the second quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013. Accordingly, in the first quarter of 2013, we continued to repurchase common shares under the 2012 capital plan. Through Feb. 27, 2013, we repurchased 7.8 million
common shares in the open market at an average price of $27.21 per common share for a total of $211 million.   

The unrealized net of tax gain on our available-for-sale investment securities portfolio recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income was $1.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $417 million at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by a decline in interest rates and improved credit
spreads.       Capital adequacy    
  Regulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with
established quantitative measurements. For the Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon must, among other things, qualify as  well capitalized .   
  As of Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries were considered  well capitalized  on the basis of the Basel I Total and
Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratios and the leverage ratio (Basel I Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets as defined for regulatory purposes).

BNY
Mellon     57   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   Our consolidated and largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, capital ratios are shown
below.       

(a)   
   The estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio at Dec. 31, 2012 was based on the NPRs and final market risk rule. The estimated Basel III Tier1 common equity
ratio of 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011 was based on prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule.      

(b)   
   See  Supplemental Information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 106 for a calculation of this ratio.

(c)   
   When in this Annual Report we refer to BNY Mellon s or our bank subsidiary s  Basel I  capital measures (e.g., Basel I Total capital or Basel I
Tier 1 capital), we mean Total or Tier 1 capital, as applicable, as calculated under the Federal Reserve s risk-based capital guidelines that are based on the 1988 Basel Accord, which is often referred to as  Basel I .
         N/A   Not applicable at the consolidated company level. Well capitalized and adequately capitalized have not been
defined for Basel III.    

Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.8% at Dec. 31, 2012 based on the NPRs and final
market risk rule. The increase in the ratio from 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011, which was calculated under prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule, was primarily due to a reduction in risk-weighted assets related to the treatment of
sub-investment grade securities under the NPRs, earnings retention and an increase in the value of the investment portfolio, partially offset by balance sheet growth in 2012. We expect the charge related to the Feb. 11, 2013 U.S. Tax Court ruling
will decrease the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio by approximately 55 basis points.      At Dec. 31, 2012, the amounts of capital by which
BNY Mellon and our largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, exceed the  well capitalized  guidelines are as follows.       

Failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including  well capitalized  status or capital adequacy
guidelines more generally, could result in limitations on our activities and adversely affect our financial condition. See the discussion of these matters in  Supervision and Regulation-Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon  and  Risk
Factors-Operational and Business Risk-Failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including  well capitalized  and  well managed  status or capital adequacy guidelines more generally, could result in limitations on our activities
and adversely affect our financial condition.       The Basel I Tier 1 capital ratio varies depending on the size of the balance sheet at
quarter-end and the level and types of investments. The balance sheet size fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on levels of customer and market activity. In general, when servicing clients are more actively trading securities, deposit balances
and the balance sheet as a whole are higher. In addition, when markets experience significant volatility or stress, our balance sheet size may increase considerably as client deposit levels increase.

58     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In 2012, we generated $2.7 billion of gross Basel I Tier 1 common equity, primarily driven by earnings
retention.       
    Our Basel I Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.0% at both Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011. The Basel I Tier 1 capital ratio was
unchanged as earnings retention and the issuance of $1.1 billion of noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, net of issuance costs were offset by share repurchases, the repayment of trust preferred securities and higher risk-weighted assets.
     At Dec. 31, 2012, our Basel I risk-weighted assets were $111 billion compared with $102 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. The increase in
risk-weighted assets was primarily driven by higher investment securities, loans and interest-bearing deposits with banks.      Our Basel I Tier 1
leverage ratio was 5.3% at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with 5.2% at Dec. 31, 2011. The leverage ratio of The Bank of New York Mellon was 5.4% at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with 5.3% at Dec. 31, 2011. The improvement in the leverage ratio of BNY Mellon
reflects the factors mentioned above. The improvement in the leverage ratio of The Bank of New York Mellon resulted from earnings retention.

The following table shows the impact of a $1 billion increase or decrease in risk-weighted assets/quarterly
average assets or a $100 million increase or decrease in common equity on the consolidated capital ratios at Dec. 31, 2012.       

Potential impact to capital ratios as of Dec. 31, 2012   

Increase or decrease of   

(basis points)     
      
   $100 million in common equity   
     
   $1 billion in risk- weighted
assets/ quarterly average assets   (a)     

Basel I:    

Tier 1 capital   
      
  9 bps  

14  
   bps    
 
    Total capital   
      
  9  

15  

Leverage   
      
  3  

2  

Basel III:    

Estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio   
      
  7 bps  

7  
   bps    

(a)   
   Quarterly average assets determined under Basel I regulatory guidelines.         Our tangible BNY Mellon shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations ratio was 6.4% at both Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011. The impact of earnings retention in 2012 was offset by the larger
balance sheet.      At Dec. 31, 2011, our trust preferred securities included $500 million of PCS issued by Mellon Capital IV. As contractually
obligated under the terms of the PCS, we remarketed these securities in 2012. See  Liquidity and Dividends  for additional information on the remarketing and issuance of Series A as well as the issuance of our Series C preferred stock. The
Series A and Series C preferred stock qualify as Tier 1 capital under the recently released NPRs.      At Dec. 31, 2012, we had $623 million of
trust preferred securities outstanding that qualify as Tier 1 capital, including $300 million that are currently callable. Any decision to take action with respect to the remaining trust preferred securities will be based on several considerations
including interest rates, the availability of cash and capital, as well as the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.   

BNY
Mellon     59   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following tables present the components of our Basel I Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital as well
as the Basel I risk-weighted assets at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011.       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel I guidelines.      

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel I guidelines.      
      
  60     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Stock repurchase program    

(a)   
   Includes 68,000 shares that were repurchased at a purchase price of $2 million from employees, primarily in connection with the employees  payment of taxes upon
the vesting of restricted stock.      

(b)   
   Our capital plan for 2012 authorized share repurchases of no more than $290 million per quarter.      

On Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million
shares of common stock. On March 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 13 million shares of common stock. On Feb. 14, 2012, in order to continue with share repurchases under our
2011 capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 12 million shares of common stock, of which 6.8 million shares of common stock remain available for repurchase under the Feb. 2012 board authorization.
While there are no expiration dates on the prior share repurchase authorizations, BNY Mellon does not intend to use the prior authorizations for any future share repurchases. On March 13, 2012, in connection with the Federal Reserve s
non-objection to our 2012 capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock purchase program providing for the repurchase of an aggregate of $1.16 billion of common stock. The new share repurchase program may be executed through open
market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at such prices, times and upon such other terms as may be determined from time to time. There is no expiration date on the share repurchase authorizations. In 2012, we repurchased
49.8 million common shares in the open market, at an average price of $22.38 per share for a total of $1.12 billion.   
     Trading activities and risk management       Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers and facilitating customer trades. Positions managed for our own account are immaterial to our foreign exchange and other
trading revenue and to our overall results of operations. The risk from market-making activities for customers is managed by our traders and limited in total exposure through a system of position limits, a value-at-risk ( VaR ) methodology
based on a Monte

Carlo simulation, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the VaR
methodology.      The following tables indicate the calculated VaR amounts for the trading portfolio for the years ended Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011.

(a)   
   VaR figures do not reflect the impact of CVA guidance in ASC 820. This is consistent with the regulatory treatment. VaR exposure does not include the impact of the
Company s consolidated investment management funds and seed capital investments.      

N/M   
     Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.
        The interest rate component of VaR represents instruments whose values predominantly vary with the level or volatility of
interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to: debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, swaps, swaptions, forward rate agreements, exchange traded futures and options, and other interest rate derivative products.

BNY
Mellon     61   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The foreign exchange component of VaR represents instruments whose values predominantly vary with the level
or volatility of currency exchange rates or interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to: currency balances, spot and forward transactions, currency options, and exchange traded futures and options, and other currency derivative
products.      The equity component of VaR is comprised of instruments that represent an ownership interest in the form of domestic and foreign
common stock or other equity-linked instruments. These instruments include, but are not limited to: common stock, exchange traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return
swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products.      The diversification component of VaR is the risk reduction benefit that
occurs when combining portfolios and offsetting positions, and from the correlated behavior of risk factor movements.      During 2012, interest
rate risk generated 74% of average VaR, equity risk generated 14% of average VaR and foreign exchange risk accounted for 12% of average VaR. During 2012, our daily trading loss did not exceed our calculated VaR amount of the overall portfolio on any
given day.      The following table of total daily trading revenue or loss illustrates the number of trading days in which our trading revenue or
loss fell within particular ranges during the past five quarters.       

(a)   
   Distribution of trading revenues (losses) does not reflect the impact of the CVA and corresponding hedge.

Foreign exchange and other trading    
  Under our mark-to-market methodology for derivative contracts, an initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming
time-discounting based on a AA credit curve. In addition, we consider credit risk in arriving at the fair value of our derivatives.      As
required by ASC 820    Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , we reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our
derivative positions. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as those of our counterparties. In addition, in cases where a counterparty is deemed impaired,
further analyses are performed to value such positions.      At Dec. 31, 2012, our over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative assets of $5.1
billion included a CVA deduction of $103 million, including $7 million related to the credit quality of certain CDO counterparties and Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. ( Lehman ). Our OTC derivative liabilities of $7.0 billion included a
debit valuation adjustment ( DVA ) of $29 million related to our own credit spread. Net of hedges, the CVA decreased $80 million and the DVA decreased $16 million in 2012. The net impact of these adjustments increased foreign exchange and
other trading revenue by $64 million in 2012.      At Dec. 31, 2011, our OTC derivative assets of $7.0 billion included a CVA deduction of $182
million, including $8 million related to the credit quality of certain CDO counterparties and Lehman. Our OTC derivative liabilities of $7.4 billion included a DVA of $46 million related to our own credit spread. Net of hedges, the CVA increased $11
million and the DVA was unchanged in 2011. The net impact of these adjustments decreased foreign exchange and other trading revenue by $11 million in 2011. In 2011, we charged-off a $15 million realized loss against the CVA reserves.

62     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
  
   The table below summarizes the risk ratings for our foreign exchange and interest rate derivative
counterparty credit exposure. This information indicates the degree of risk to which we are exposed

and significant changes in ratings classifications for which our foreign exchange and other trading activity could result in increased risk for us.

(a)   
   Represents credit rating agency equivalent of internal credit ratings.      

Asset/liability management       Our diversified business activities include processing securities, accepting deposits, investing in securities, lending, raising money as needed to fund assets, and other transactions. The market risks
from these activities are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. Our primary market risk is exposure to movements in U.S. dollar interest rates and certain foreign currency interest rates. We actively manage interest rate sensitivity and use
earnings simulation and discounted cash flow models to identify interest rate exposures.      An earnings simulation model is the primary tool
used to assess changes in pre-tax net interest revenue. The model incorporates management s assumptions regarding interest rates, balance changes on core deposits, market spreads, changes in the prepayment behavior of loans and securities and
the impact of derivative financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. These assumptions have been developed through a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior and are inherently uncertain. As
a result, the earnings simulation model cannot precisely estimate net interest revenue or the impact of higher or lower interest rates on net interest revenue. Actual results may differ from projected results due to timing, magnitude and frequency
of interest rate changes, and changes in market conditions and management s strategies, among other factors.      These scenarios do not
reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change. The table below relies on certain critical assumptions regarding the balance sheet and depositors  behavior related to interest rate

fluctuations and the prepayment and extension risk in certain of our assets. To the extent that actual behavior is different from that assumed in the models, there could be a change in interest
rate sensitivity.      We evaluate the effect on earnings by running various interest rate ramp scenarios from a baseline scenario. These
scenarios are reviewed to examine the impact of large interest rate movements. Interest rate sensitivity is quantified by calculating the change in pre-tax net interest revenue between the scenarios over a 12-month measurement period.   
  The following table shows net interest revenue sensitivity for BNY Mellon:   

(a)   
   In the parallel rate shift, both short-term and long-term rates move equally.      

(b)   
   Long-term is equal to or greater than one year.         The 100 basis point ramp scenario assumes short-term rates increase 25 basis points in each of the next four quarters and the 200 basis point ramp scenario assumes a 50 basis point per quarter increase.
     Our net interest revenue sensitivity table above incorporates assumptions about the impact of changes in interest rates on depositor behavior
based on historical experience. Given the exceptionally low interest rate environment, a rise in interest rates could lead to higher depositor withdrawals than historically experienced.

BNY
Mellon     63   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Growth or contraction of deposits could also be affected by the following factors:   

Global economic uncertainty, particularly in Europe;      

Our ratings relative to other financial institutions  ratings; and      

Money market mutual fund reform.         Any of these events could change our assumptions about depositor behavior and have a significant impact on our balance sheet and net interest revenue.   
  We also project future cash flows from our assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon and then discount these cash flows using instantaneous
parallel shocks to prevailing interest rates. This measure reflects the structural balance sheet interest rate sensitivity by discounting all future cash flows. The aggregation of these discounted cash flows is the Economic Value of Equity
( EVE ). The following table shows how the EVE would change in response to changes in interest rates:       
    These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations
change.      The asymmetrical accounting treatment of the impact of a change in interest rates on our balance sheet may create a situation in
which an increase in interest rates can adversely affect reported equity and regulatory capital, even though economically there may be no impact on our economic capital position. For example, an increase in rates will result in a decline in the
value of our fixed income investment portfolio, which will

be reflected through a reduction in other comprehensive income in our shareholders  equity, thereby affecting our tangible common equity ( TCE ) ratios. Under current accounting
rules, to the extent the fair value option provided in ASC 825 is not applied, there is no corresponding change on our fixed liabilities, even though economically these liabilities are more valuable as rates rise.   
  We project the impact of this change using the same interest rate shock assumptions described earlier and compare the projected mark-to-market on the
investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2012, under the higher rate environments versus a stable rate scenario. The table below shows the impact of a change in interest rates on the TCE ratio:   
   
    These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations
change.      To manage foreign exchange risk, we fund foreign currency-denominated assets with liability instruments denominated in the same
currency. We utilize various foreign exchange contracts if a liability denominated in the same currency is not available or desired, and to minimize the earnings impact of translation gains or losses created by investments in foreign markets. The
foreign exchange risk related to the interest rate spread on foreign currency-denominated asset/liability positions is managed as part of our trading activities. We use forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of our net investment in
foreign operations. At Dec. 31, 2012, net investments in foreign operations totaled approximately $10 billion and were spread across 13 foreign currencies.

64     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk management    

Risk management overview        Governance       Risk management and oversight begins with the Board of Directors and two key
Board committees: the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.      The Risk Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors and meets on
a regular basis to review and assess the control processes with respect to the Company s inherent risks. They also review and assess the risk management activities of the Company and the Company s fiduciary risk policies and activities.
Policy formulation and day-to-day oversight of the Risk Management Framework is delegated to the Chief Risk Officer, who, together with the Chief Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer, helps ensure an effective risk management governance structure.
The roles and responsibilities of the Risk Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website,  www.bnymellon.com .      The Audit Committee is also comprised entirely of independent directors, all of whom are financially literate within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards, and one of whom has been determined to be an
audit committee financial expert as set out in the rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), with accounting or related financial management expertise within the meaning of the NYSE
listing standards. All members of the Audit Committee have been determined to have banking and financial management expertise within the meaning of the FDIC rules. The Audit Committee meets on a regular basis to perform an oversight review of the
integrity of the financial statements and financial reporting process, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, our independent registered public accountant s qualifications and independence, and the performance of our registered
public accountant and internal audit function. The Audit Committee also reviews management s assessment of the adequacy of internal controls. The functions of the Audit Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is
available on our website,  www.bnymellon.com .      The Senior Risk Management Committee ( SRMC ) is the most senior management
body responsible for ensuring that emerging risks are weighed against the corporate risk appetite and that any material

amendments to the risk appetite statement are properly vetted and recommended to the Executive Committee and the Board for approval. The SRMC also reviews any material breaches to our risk
appetite and approves action plans required to remediate the issue. SRMC provides oversight for the risk management, compliance and ethics framework. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial Officer are among SRMC s
members.       Risk appetite statement       BNY Mellon defines risk appetite as the level of risk it is normally willing to accept while pursuing the interests of our major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and
regulators. The Company has adopted the following as its risk appetite statement:  Risk taking is a fundamental characteristic of providing financial services and arises in every transaction we undertake. Our risk appetite is driven by the fact
that our Company is the global leader in providing services that enable the management and servicing of financial assets in more than 100 markets worldwide and has been designated by international regulators as one of the 29 Global Systemically
Important Financial Institutions ( G-SIFIs ). This designation recognizes our fundamental importance to the health and operation of the global capital markets and carries with it a responsibility to maintain the highest standards of
excellence. As a result, we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet throughout market cycles and to delivering operational excellence to meet the expectations of our major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and
regulators. The balance sheet will be characterized by strong liquidity, superior asset quality, ready access to external funding sources at competitive rates and a strong capital structure that supports our risk taking activities and is adequate to
absorb potential losses. These characteristics support our goal of having superior debt ratings among our peers. To that end, the Company s Risk Management Framework has been designed to:   

ensure that appropriate risk tolerances ( limits ) are in place to govern our risk taking activities across all businesses and risk types;

ensure that our risk appetite principles permeate the Company s culture and are incorporated into our strategic decision-making processes;

ensure rigorous monitoring and reporting of key risk metrics to senior management and the Board of Directors; and      

ensure that there is an on-going, and forward-looking, capital planning process to support our risk taking activities. 

BNY
Mellon     65   

Table of Contents  

Risk management    (continued)                 
 
    Primary risk types       The understanding, identification and management of risk are essential elements for the successful management of BNY Mellon. Our primary risk categories are:   

Type of risk   
     
   Description    

Operational/   
   business    
     
  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors
and systems, breaches of technology and information systems, or from external events. Also includes fiduciary risk, reputational risk, and litigation risk.   
 
     Market    
     
  The risk of loss due to adverse changes in the financial markets. Our market risks are
primarily interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity risk. Market risk particularly impacts our exposures that are marked-to-market such as the securities portfolio, trading book, and equity investments.   
 
     Credit    
     
  The possible loss we would suffer if any of our borrowers or other counterparties were
to default on their obligations to us. Credit risk is resident in the majority of our assets, but primarily concentrated in the loan and securities books, as well as off-balance-sheet exposures such as lending commitments, letters of credit, and
securities lending indemnifications.   
 
     Liquidity    
     
  The risk that BNY Mellon cannot meet its cash and collateral obligations at a
reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flows, without adversely affecting daily operations or financial conditions. Liquidity risk can arise from cash flow mismatches, market constraints from inability to convert assets to cash,
inability to raise cash in the markets, deposit run-off, or contingent liquidity events. Thus, liquidity risk can be inherent in the majority of our balance sheet exposures.   

The following table presents the primary type of risk typically embedded in on- and off-balance-sheet
instruments.       

Risks of our on- and off-balance-sheet instruments    

Assets:    

Interest-bearing deposits with banks   
     
  credit   
 
    Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements   
     
  market, credit   
 
    Securities   
     
  market, credit   
 
    Trading assets   
     
  market, credit   
 
    Loans   
     
  credit   
 
    Goodwill   
     
  operational/business, market   
 
    Intangible assets   
     
  operational/business, market   

Liabilities:    

Deposits   
     
  liquidity   
 
    Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements   
     
  liquidity   
 
    Trading liabilities   
     
  market, liquidity   
 
    Payables to customers and broker-dealers   
     
  liquidity   
 
    Commercial paper   
     
  liquidity   

Off-balance-sheet instruments:    

Lending commitments   
     
  credit, liquidity   
 
    Standby letter of credit   
     
  credit, liquidity   
 
    Commercial letters of credit   
     
  credit, liquidity   
 
    Securities lending indemnifications   
     
  market, credit   
     Operational/business risk        Overview       In providing a comprehensive array of products and services, we may be exposed
to operational/business risk. Operational/business risk may result from, but is not limited to, errors related to transaction processing, breaches of internal control systems and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside BNY
Mellon or business interruption due to system failures or other events. Operational/business risk may also include breaches of our technology and information systems resulting from unauthorized access to confidential information or from internal or
external threats, such as cyber attacks. Operational/business risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and/or regulatory requirements. In the case of an operational
event, we could suffer a financial loss as well as damage to our reputation.      To address these risks, we maintain comprehensive policies and
procedures and an internal control   

66     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk management    (continued)                 

framework designed to provide a sound operational environment. These controls have been designed to manage operational/business risk at appropriate levels given our financial strength, the
business environment and markets in which we operate, the nature of our businesses, and considering factors such as competition and regulation. Our internal auditors and internal control group monitor and test the overall effectiveness of our
internal controls and financial reporting systems on an ongoing basis.      We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure
compliance with generally accepted conduct, ethics and business practices which are defined in our corporate policies. These include training programs such as for our  Code of Conduct,  and  Know Your Customer  programs, and
compliance training programs such as those regarding information protection, suspicious activity reporting, and operational risk.   
   Operational/business risk management    
  We have established operational/business risk management as an independent risk discipline. The Operational Risk Management ( ORM ) Group and
Information Risk Management ( IRM ) Group reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The organizational framework for operational/business risk is based upon a strong risk culture that incorporates both governance and risk management activities
comprising:       

Board Oversight and Governance   The Risk Committee of the Board approves and oversees our operational/business risk management strategy in
addition to credit and market risk. The Risk Committee meets regularly to review and approve operational/business risk management initiatives, discuss key risk issues, and review the effectiveness of the risk management systems.

Accountability of Businesses   Business managers are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls commensurate with their
risk profiles and in accordance with BNY Mellon policies and procedures.      

ORM Group   The ORM Group is responsible for developing risk management policies and tools for assessing, measuring, monitoring and managing
operational risk for BNY Mellon. The primary objectives of the ORM group are to promote effective risk management, identify emerging risks, create incentives for generating continuous improvement in controls, and to optimize capital.

IRM Group   The IRM Group is responsible for developing policies and tools for identifying, assessing, measuring and monitoring information and
technology risk for BNY Mellon. The IRM Group partners with the businesses to focus on three primary areas: access, information protection, and technology controls. The primary objectives of the IRM Group are to help maintain and protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the firm s information and technology assets from internal and external threats such as cyber attacks.          Market risk       In addition to the Risk Committee and SRMC, oversight of market risk is performed by
certain committees and through executive review meetings. Detailed reviews of derivative trading positions and of all model validations/stress tests results are conducted during the Global Markets Weekly Risk Review. Senior managers from Risk
Management, Finance and Sales and Trading attend the review.      Regarding the Treasury function, oversight is provided by the Treasury Risk
Committee, bi-weekly Portfolio Management Group risk meetings, Business Risk meetings, and numerous portfolio reviews.      Business Risk meetings
for the Global Markets and Capital Markets businesses also provide a forum for market risk oversight. The goal of Business Risk meetings, which are held at least quarterly, is to review key risk and control issues and related initiatives facing all
lines of business including Global Markets and Capital Markets. The following activities are also addressed during Business Risks meetings:       

Reporting of all new Monitoring Limits and changes to existing limits;      

Monitoring of trading exposures, VaR, market sensitivities and stress testing results; and      

Reporting results of all model validations.         The Derivatives Documentation Committee reviews and approves variations in the Company s documentation standards as it relates to derivative transactions. In addition, this committee reviews all
outstanding confirmations to identify potential exposure to the Company. Finally, the Risk Quantification and Modeling Committee validates and reviews back-testing results.

BNY
Mellon     67   

Table of Contents  

Risk management    (continued)                 
 
    Credit risk       To balance the value of our activities with the credit risk incurred in pursuing them, we set and monitor internal credit limits for activities that entail credit risk, most often on the size of the
exposure and the maximum maturity of credit extended. For credit exposures driven by changing market rates and prices, exposure measures include an add-on for such potential changes.      We manage credit risk at both the individual exposure level as well as at the portfolio level. Credit risk at the individual exposure level is managed through our credit approval system of Credit
Portfolio Managers ( CPMs ) and the Chief Credit Officer ( CCO ). The CPMs and CCO are responsible for approving the size, terms and maturity of all credit exposures as well as the ongoing monitoring of the exposures. In
addition, they are responsible for assigning and maintaining the risk ratings on each exposure.      Credit risk management at the portfolio level
is supported by Enterprise Risk Architecture ( ERA ), within the Risk Management and Compliance Sector. The ERA is responsible for calculating two fundamental credit measures. First, we project a statistically probable credit loss, used to
help determine the appropriate loan loss reserve and to measure customer profitability. Credit loss considers three basic components: the estimated size of the exposure whenever default might occur, the probability of default before maturity and the
severity of the loss we would incur, commonly called  loss given default.  For corporate banking, where most of our credit risk is created, unfunded commitments are assigned a usage given default percentage. Borrowers/Counterparties are
assigned ratings by CPMs and the CCO on an 18-grade scale, which translate to a scaled probability of default. Additionally, transactions are assigned loss-given-default ratings (on a 12-grade scale) that reflect the transactions  structures
including the effects of guarantees, collateral, and relative seniority of position.      The second fundamental measurement of credit risk
calculated by the ERA is called economic capital. Our economic capital model estimates the capital required to support the overall credit risk portfolio. Using a Monte Carlo simulation engine and measures of correlation among borrower defaults, the
economic model examines extreme and highly unlikely scenarios of portfolio credit loss in order to estimate credit-related capital, and then allocates that capital to individual borrowers and exposures. The credit-related capital calculation
supports a second tier of

policy standards and limits by serving as an input to both profitability analysis and concentration limits of capital at risk with any one borrower, industry or country.   
  The ERA is responsible for the calculation methodologies and the estimates of the inputs used in those methodologies for the determination of expected
loss and economic capital. These methodologies and input estimates are regularly evaluated to ensure their appropriateness and accuracy. As new techniques and data become available, the ERA attempts to incorporate, where appropriate, those
techniques or data.      Credit risk is intrinsic to much of the banking business. However, BNY Mellon seeks to limit both on- and off-balance
sheet credit risk through prudent underwriting and the use of capital only where risk-adjusted returns warrant. We seek to manage risk and improve our portfolio diversification through syndications, asset sales, credit enhancements, credit
derivatives, and active collateralization and netting agreements. In addition, we have a separate Credit Risk Review group, which is part of Internal Audit, made up of experienced loan review officers who perform timely reviews of the loan files and
credit ratings assigned to the loans.       Liquidity risk       Our overall approach to liquidity management is to ensure that sources of liquidity are sufficient in amount and diversity such that changes in funding requirements at the Parent and at the various bank
subsidiaries can be accommodated routinely without material adverse impact on earnings, daily operations or our financial condition.      The
Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the liquidity risk of the Company and approves the liquidity risk tolerances. The Asset Liability Committee ( ALCO ) is the senior management committee responsible for the oversight of
liquidity management. ALCO is responsible to ensure that Board approved strategies, policies, and procedures for managing liquidity are appropriately executed. Senior management is also responsible for regularly reporting the liquidity position of
the Company to the Board of Directors. The Treasury Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing liquidity stress tests and various liquidity metrics including contractual cash flow gaps for liquidity, foreign exchange, liquidity stress metrics and
ratios, Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Net Stable Funding Ratio and client deposit

68     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk management    (continued)                 

concentration. The Treasury Risk Committee approves and validates stress test methodologies and assumptions.      BNY Mellon seeks to maintain an adequate liquidity cushion in both normal and stressed environments and seeks to diversify funding sources by line of business, customer and market segment. Additionally,
we seek to maintain liquidity ratios within approved limits and liquidity risk tolerance, maintain a liquid asset buffer that can be liquidated, financed and/or pledged as necessary, and control the levels and sources of wholesale funds.   
  Potential uses of liquidity include withdrawals of customer deposits and client drawdowns on unfunded credit or liquidity facilities. We actively monitor
unfunded lending-related commitments, thereby reducing unanticipated funding requirements.      When monitoring liquidity, we evaluate multiple
metrics to ensure ample liquidity for expected and unexpected events. Metrics include cashflow mismatches, asset maturities, access to debt and money markets, debt spreads, peer ratios, liquid assets, unencumbered collateral, funding sources and
balance sheet liquidity ratios. We monitor the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio as applied to us, based on our current interpretation of Basel III. Ratios we currently monitor as part of our standard analysis include total loans as a percentage of
total deposits, deposits as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, foreign deposits as a percentage of total interest-earnings assets, purchased funds as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of total
interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of purchased funds, and discount window collateral and central bank deposits as a percentage of total deposits. All of these ratios exceeded our minimum guidelines at Dec. 31, 2012.   
  We also perform liquidity stress tests to ensure the Company maintains sufficient liquidity resources under multiple stress scenarios. Stress tests are
based on scenarios that measure liquidity risks under unlikely but plausible events. The Company performs these tests under various time horizons ranging from one day to one year in a base case, as well as supplemental tests to determine whether the
Company s liquidity is sufficient for severe market events and firm-specific events. Under our scenario testing program, the results of the tests indicate that the Company has sufficient liquidity.

Stress Testing       It is the policy of the company to perform Enterprise-wide Stress Testing at regular intervals as part of its Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ( ICAAP ). Additionally, the Company
performs an analysis of capital adequacy in a stressed environment in its Enterprise-wide Stress Test Framework, as required by the enhanced prudential standards issued pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act.   
  Enterprise-Wide Stress Testing performs analysis across the company s Lines of Business, products, geographic areas, and risk types incorporating
the results from the different underlying models and projections given a certain stress-test scenario. It is an important component of assessing the adequacy of capital (as in the ICAAP) as well as identifying any high risk touch points in business
activities. Furthermore, by integrating enterprise-wide stress testing into the company s capital planning process, the results provide a forward-looking evaluation of the ability to complete planned capital actions in a
more-adverse-than-anticipated economic environment.       Economic capital required       BNY Mellon has implemented a methodology to quantify economic capital. We define economic capital as the capital required to protect against unexpected economic losses over a one-year period at a level
consistent with the solvency of a target debt rating. We quantify economic capital requirements for the risks inherent in our business activities using statistical modeling techniques and then aggregate them at the consolidated level. A capital
reduction, or diversification benefit, is applied to reflect the unlikely event of experiencing an extremely large loss in each type of risk at the same time. Economic capital requirements are directly related to our risk profile. As such, it has
become a part of our internal capital adequacy assessment process and, along with regulatory capital, is a key component to ensuring that the actual level of capital is commensurate with our risk profile, and is sufficient to provide the financial
flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives.      The framework and methodologies to quantify each of our risk types have been
developed by the ERA and are designed to be consistent with our risk management principles. The framework has been approved by senior management and has been reviewed by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Due to the evolving nature of
quantification   

BNY
Mellon     69   

Table of Contents  

Risk management    (continued)                 

techniques, we expect to continue to refine the methodologies used to estimate our economic capital requirements.      The following table presents our economic capital required at Dec. 31, 2012, on a consolidated basis.       
     Global compliance    
  Our global compliance function provides leadership, guidance, and oversight to help our businesses identify applicable laws and regulations and implement
effective measures to meet the specific requirements. Compliance takes a proactive approach by anticipating evolving regulatory standards and

remaining aware of industry best practices, legislative initiatives, competitive issues, and public expectations and perceptions. The function uses its global reach to disseminate information
about compliance-related matters throughout BNY Mellon. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer reports to the Chief Risk Officer, is a member of key committees of BNY Mellon and provides regular updates to the Audit and Risk Committees of the Board
of Directors.       Internal audit    
  Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance function that reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Company s Board of Directors. It
assists the Company in accomplishing its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined, risk-based approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the Company s risk management, control, and governance processes. The scope of Internal
Audit s work includes the review and evaluation of the adequacy, effectiveness, and sustainability of risk management procedures, internal control systems, information systems and governance processes.   

70     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain
risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth the most significant risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below, or
in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in our reports address all
potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make
reference to this Annual Report. See  Forward-looking Statements.          Operational and Business Risk      
    We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which may limit
our ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions and violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.     
  We operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to a comprehensive statutory and regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental
agencies. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the Obama Administration, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. New or modified regulations
and related regulatory guidance, including under Basel III (and the related NPRs) and the Dodd-Frank Act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. We are also required to submit to the Federal Reserve an
annual capital plan outlining our planned capital actions for the following year. Our ability to take capital actions, including our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock, is subject to Federal Reserve
approval, which is dependent on our successful demonstration that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a stressed market environment. For example, any increase in quarterly dividends not
contemplated in the annual capital plan will also require Federal Reserve approval. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies ( BHCs ) like us, common stock dividend

payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. In addition, the implementation of certain regulations with regard to regulatory capital could
disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors, including those who may not be subject to the same regulatory requirements, which could put further pressure on the price of our common stock. Finally, in
October 2012, U.S. regulatory agencies finalized regulations implementing stress testing requirements required under the Dodd-Frank Act, requiring us to undergo regulatory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve annually, and to conduct our
own internal stress tests pursuant to regulatory requirements twice annually.      Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could
result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed
to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. If violations do occur, they could damage our reputation, increase our legal and compliance costs, and ultimately adversely impact our results of
operations. Laws, regulations or policies currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may also be
adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Annual Report.   
    Recent legislative and regulatory actions may have an adverse effect on our operations.     
  In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This law broadly affects the financial services industry, particularly those entities
considered to be  systemically important , such as BHCs with assets of over $50 billion, including BNY Mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation authority, mandating higher capital and
liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Further, in November 2012, the Basel Committee and the
Financial Stability Board indicated that we were provisionally assigned to the 1.5% global systemically important banks ( G-SIBs ) capital surcharge bucket, which remains subject to interpretation and implementation by

BNY
Mellon     71   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

U.S. regulatory authorities. Additionally, in its proposed rules regarding systemically important financial institutions, the Federal Reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate
rulemaking, a Tier 1 common equity surcharge for G-SIBs based on the Basel Committee s proposal.      Among numerous other provisions of
recent legislative and regulatory changes that could have an effect on BNY Mellon are:       

the Basel Committee s heightened capital and liquidity requirements, including the related U.S. notices of proposed rulemaking;

the potential requirement to register as a  municipal advisor . Depending upon the SEC s final interpretation of the statutory
requirement, BNY Mellon and a large number of employees located throughout the country may be required to register as a municipal adviser, which would impose increased costs and burdens on, and changes to, our business and may necessitate a
re-evaluation of the affected services;      

requirements designed to provide for the orderly resolution of certain large financial institutions, including requirements to submit resolution plans,
which if found to be deficient could subject BNY Mellon to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements, restrictions on growth, activities or operations, or divestiture of assets or operations;      

current proposals designed to enhance money market fund regulation, including requiring capital support or reserves, limitations on redemptions, and
requiring money market funds to price their shares at net asset value;      

the Task Force on Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform s review of the risks in the tri-party repo market, and associated recommendations;

the required registration of swap dealers and associated compliance duties, reporting and record-keeping with respect to swaps and clearing and
execution obligations, among other duties; and      

various features of the  Volcker Rule  element of the Dodd-Frank Act, including:      

establishment of a costly heightened compliance regime;      

the need to liquidate investments in certain funds at an accelerated pace at unfavorable pricing; and      

preclusion from launching new funds to meet customer demand, and the competitive disadvantage vis- -vis other managers not subject to the
Volcker Rule.      
 
   U.S. regulatory agencies   banking, securities and commodities   are steadily publishing notices
of proposed regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and new bodies created by Dodd-Frank (including the FSOC and the CFPB) are commencing operations. The related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued
as part of the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business
practices and plans, including those relating to cross-selling our products and services. These changes could also expose us to additional regulatory costs and require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary
changes, all of which could impact our profitability. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business.   
    Adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally
could materially adversely affect our results of operations or harm our businesses or reputation.        We are subject to reputational,
legal and regulatory risk in the ordinary course of our business. The 2008 financial crisis and current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions have resulted in a significant amount of adverse media coverage of financial
institutions. Harm to our reputation can result from numerous sources, including adverse publicity arising from events in the financial markets, our perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our
employees or alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well-known companies. Additionally, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of service and quality or a failure to appropriately describe our products
and services can result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue, higher operating costs and litigation. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by other members of or individuals in the financial services industry can also
negatively impact our reputation. For example, public perception that some consumers may have been treated unfairly by financial institutions has damaged the reputation of the financial services industry as a whole. Should any of these or other
events or factors that can undermine our reputation occur, there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that

72     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

we may need to incur to address the issues giving rise to the reputational harm would not adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.   
  We are also the subject of inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and proceedings by counterparties, clients, other third parties and regulatory and other
governmental agencies in the United States and abroad, as well as the Department of Justice and state attorneys general. See  Legal proceedings  in Note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for a
discussion of material legal and regulatory proceedings in which we are involved. Responding to such inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, is time-consuming and expensive and can
divert the attention of our senior management from our business. The outcome of such proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last several years.   
  Actions brought against us may result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, injunctions, settlements, damages, fines or penalties, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations or require changes to our business. Claims for significant monetary damages are often asserted in many of these legal actions, while claims for disgorgement, penalties
and/or other remedial sanctions may be sought in regulatory matters. Although we establish accruals for our litigation and regulatory matters in accordance with applicable accounting guidance when those matters proceed to a stage where they present
loss contingencies that are both probable and reasonably estimable, nonetheless there may be a possible exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. Any or all of these risks could result in increased regulatory supervision and affect our
ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets. Adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal proceedings can also adversely impact the morale and performance of our employees.   
    Continued litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings involving our foreign exchange standing instruction program and resulting
adverse publicity could affect our reputation and negatively impact our foreign exchange business.        Beginning in 2009, our foreign
exchange standing instruction program became the subject of litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings. See  Legal proceedings  in Note 23 of the Notes to the

Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. These litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings have generated substantial scrutiny of, and adverse publicity concerning,
our foreign exchange standing instruction program. Continued litigation involving our foreign exchange standing instruction program, and the resulting scrutiny and adverse publicity, could affect our reputation and discourage clients from doing
business with us. For example, these proceedings have resulted in the loss of Ohio public fund custody clients, which has attracted media attention and led to inquiries from other clients, investors and employees. If we continue to be subject to
these proceedings and the resulting adverse publicity relating to our foreign exchange standing instruction program, our reputation could be further affected, adversely impacting our business and results of operations. For example, pressure on
pricing may cause our foreign exchange revenue to decline. See  Foreign exchange and other trading revenue  in the MD A   Results of Operations section of this Annual Report for more information regarding our foreign exchange
business, including business practices, results of operations and trends.        Failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including  well
capitalized  and  well managed  status or capital adequacy guidelines more generally, could result in limitations on our activities and adversely affect our business and financial condition.     
  Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet
guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed under  Supervision and
Regulation  in this Annual Report, BNY Mellon is regulated as a BHC and a financial holding company ( FHC ). Our ability to maintain our status as an FHC is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution
subsidiaries qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed  under the banking agencies  prompt corrective action regulations and upon BNY Mellon qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well
capitalized  and  well managed  under applicable Federal Reserve regulations. Failure by BNY Mellon or one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to qualify as  well capitalized  and  well managed , if unremedied over a
period of time, would cause us to lose our status as an FHC and could affect the confidence of clients in us, compromising our competitive position. Additionally,

BNY
Mellon     73   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

an FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status could lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for BHCs
without FHC status or to continue such activities.      The Bank of New York Mellon is required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 5% in
order to maintain its  well capitalized  status, and BNY Mellon manages its leverage ratio to a similar level. The leverage ratio measures the ratio of Basel I Tier 1 capital to quarterly average consolidated total assets, as defined under
Basel I regulatory guidelines. During periods of market uncertainty, our balance sheet size may increase considerably when custody customers choose to hold cash balances in our bank subsidiaries in a  flight to safety.  Such inflows of
cash deposits increase The Bank of New York Mellon s quarterly average consolidated total assets and, absent remedial actions, could adversely impact its leverage ratio.      Our bank subsidiaries are also subject to capital requirements, administered by the Federal Reserve in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the OCC in the case of our national bank subsidiaries,
BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. Failure by one of our bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as  well capitalized  could lead to, among other things, higher FDIC assessments. A
further failure by BNY Mellon or one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as  adequately capitalized  would lead to regulatory sanctions and limitations and could lead the federal banking agencies to take  prompt
corrective action.       If our company, our subsidiary banks or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other
regulatory requirements, we may not be able to deploy capital in the operation of our business or distribute capital to stockholders, which may adversely affect our business. The capital requirements applicable to us as well as to our subsidiary
banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with Basel III and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and BNY Mellon, and our subsidiary banks will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy
standards. We cannot fully predict the final form, or the effects, of these regulations. See  Supervision and Regulation  and the  Liquidity and dividends  and  Capital   Capital adequacy  sections in the MD A
  Results of Operations section in this Annual Report.   
 
     Our business may be materially adversely affected by operational risk.     
  We are exposed to operational risk as a result of conducting various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services,
private banking and asset management services. Examples of operational risk include: the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or
persons outside BNY Mellon, business interruption due to system failures, natural disasters or other events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk
may also include breaches of our technology and information systems resulting from unauthorized access to confidential information or from internal or external threats, such as cyber attacks. Operational risk also includes potential legal or
regulatory actions that could arise as a result of non-compliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements or contracts which could have an adverse effect on our reputation.      An important aspect of managing our operational risk is creating a risk culture in which all employees fully understand that there is risk in every aspect of our business and the importance of managing
risk as it relates to their job functions. We continue to enhance our risk management program to support our risk culture, ensuring that it is sustainable and appropriate to our role as a major financial institution. Nonetheless, if we fail to
create the appropriate environment that sensitizes all of our employees to managing risk, our business could be adversely impacted. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery
planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities. However, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as systems failures or natural disasters, could damage our physical facilities or
our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and ultimately negatively impact our results of operations due to potentially higher expenses and lower revenues.
For a discussion of operational risk see  Risk management   Operational/business risk  and  Business Continuity  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report.

74     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 
 
     A failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.        Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure
controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the
objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures
and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports.        If our information systems experience a
disruption or breach in security that results in a loss of confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide services to our clients, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.     
  We rely on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our businesses that rely heavily on technology, such as our Investment
Services and clearing businesses, are particularly vulnerable to security breaches and technology disruptions. While our information systems have been subjected to cyber threats, including hacker attacks, viruses, denial of service efforts and
unauthorized access attempts, we deploy a broad range of sophisticated defenses and we have avoided a material breach. The security of our computer systems, software and networks, and those functions that we may outsource, may continue to be
subjected to cyber threats that could result in failures or disruptions in our business. Despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems and information, it is possible that we may not be able to anticipate or to implement effective
preventive measures against all cyber threats, especially because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside third parties
such as persons who are involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign

governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that
of our customers or clients.      Breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having authorized or
unauthorized access to our systems or our clients  or counterparties  confidential information, including employees and customers, as well as hackers. A breach of security that results in the loss of confidential client information may
require us to reconstruct lost data or reimburse clients for data and credit monitoring efforts, may result in loss of customer business, would be costly and time-consuming, and may negatively impact our results of operations and reputation.
Additionally, security breaches or disruptions of our information systems, or those of our service providers, could impact our ability to provide services to our clients, which could expose us to liability for damages, result in the loss of customer
business, damage our reputation, subject us to regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure to upgrade or
maintain our computer systems, software and networks, as necessary, could also make us susceptible to breaches and unauthorized access and misuse. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur
or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify, investigate or remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from information systems security risks.
Furthermore, even if not directed at us specifically, attacks on other large financial institutions could disrupt the overall functioning of the financial system to the detriment of other financial institutions, including us.   
  As a result of the importance of communications and information systems to our business, we could also be adversely affected if attacks affecting the
third party providers of our communications services impair our ability to process transactions and communicate with customers and counterparties. For a discussion of operational risk, see  Risk management   Operational/business risk 
and  Business Continuity  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report.   

BNY
Mellon     75   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 
 
     We depend on our technology; if we fail to update our technology our business may be adversely
affected.        We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our
technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies.
Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.
     Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate
ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new
technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.      Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. We cannot provide any assurance that our
technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in
profitability.      Furthermore, if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement or misappropriation of its proprietary rights, obtained
through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our products, systems, or methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative
methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.        Change or uncertainty in monetary, tax
and other governmental policies may impact our profitability and ability to compete.        The monetary, tax and other policies of the
government and its agencies, including the Federal

Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies
determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve also can
materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. The Federal Reserve has been engaging in quantitative economic
easing since 2008. In late 2012, the Federal Reserve announced  QE3  and  QE4  programs to buy mortgaged backed securities and long-term U.S. Treasury securities until such time as certain criteria relating to unemployment and
inflation are met. These policies have resulted in some reduction in nominal yield and accelerated run-off on certain interest-earning assets. To the extent that we are not able to manage our reinvestment risk relating to the impact of these
monetary policies, our net interest revenue could be adversely affected.      Our business and earnings may also be adversely affected by the
monetary, tax and other governmental policies that are adopted by various U.S. regulatory authorities, non-U.S. governments and international agencies. Changes in monetary, tax and other governmental policies could impose additional compliance,
legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. Changes in monetary, tax and other governmental
policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such changes would have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations.   
    We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our
profitability.        Many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Competitors include other banks,
trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, asset managers, insurance companies and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct
operations. In addition, technological advances and the growth of internet-based commerce have made it possible for other types of institutions,

76     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

such as outsourcing companies and data processing companies, to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Increased competition in any one or all of
these areas may require us to make additional capital investments in our businesses in order to remain competitive.      Furthermore, pricing
pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, particularly in our asset servicing businesses, may result in a reduction in the price we can
charge for our products and services, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.      Recently enacted
and proposed legislation and regulation may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including legislation relating to restrictions on the types of activities in which financial institutions are
permitted to engage, such as seed capital investing. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Annual Report. This legislation and other regulations may not apply to all of our competitors, which could adversely impact our ability to
compete effectively. A decline in our competitive position could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.   
    New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks, and the failure to grow our existing businesses could affect
our results of operations.        From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within
existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. We invest significant time and resources in developing and marketing new lines of business, products and services. Initial timetables for the
introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not be met or prove feasible. Our revenues and costs may fluctuate because generally new businesses
require start-up expenses but take time for revenues to develop. As a result of the uncertainties associated with the entry into new businesses, our business may be adversely impacted.      In addition, our internal strategies and forecasts may assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services across business lines. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients
and a   

decline in the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody could adversely affect our future results of operations.
A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions could also adversely affect our results of operations.        Our business may
be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain employees.        Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract
new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate our employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny of the compensation practices of large financial institutions. Competition for the best
employees in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain key personnel. Factors that affect our ability to attract and retain key employees include
our compensation and benefits programs, our profitability and our reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees. Our ability to attract and retain key executives and other employees may be hindered as a result of regulations applicable
to incentive compensation and other aspects of our compensation programs promulgated by the Federal Reserve and other regulators in the United States and worldwide, regulations on incentive compensation to be promulgated by various U.S. regulators
pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and other existing and potential regulations. These regulations, which include and are expected to include mandatory deferral and clawback requirements, do not and will not apply to some of our competitors and to other
institutions with which we compete for talent. Our ability to recruit and retain key talent may be adversely affected by these regulations. In addition, aspects of our compensation programs are performance-based. If we do not achieve applicable
performance thresholds for a relevant period, employee compensation may be adversely affected.        We are subject to political, economic,
legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally and which may adversely affect our business.        In conducting
our business and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of loss from the outbreak of hostilities and various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability,
changes in governmental policies or policies of central   

BNY
Mellon     77   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. Our international businesses are regulated
in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business
operations and adversely affect our liquidity, profitability and regulatory capital. The failure to properly mitigate such risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support such international activities could result in operational failures and
regulatory fines or sanctions, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. Further, our businesses and operations from time to time enter into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. Various emerging market
countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates
in their economies. Crime, corruption, war or military actions, and a lack of an established legal and regulatory framework are additional challenges in certain emerging markets. Revenue from international operations and trading in non-U.S.
securities and other obligations may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations. The possible effects of any of these conditions may adversely affect our business and increase volatility in global financial markets
generally.        Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business and
operations.        Acts of terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics, global conflicts or other similar catastrophic events could have a
negative impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, such events could still damage our facilities, disrupt or delay the normal operations of our business (including communications
and technology), result in harm or cause travel limitations on our employees, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers and counterparties. These events could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent
that those acts or conflicts result in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. For example, in October 2012
several of

our facilities in the northeastern U.S. were impacted by Superstorm Sandy and the New York Stock Exchange was closed for two trading days. While our business continuity plans functioned well and
we did not experience a material financial impact from the storm, nonetheless the recovery required significant resources and we experienced some lost revenue opportunities. War, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, the national and
global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities may negatively impact economic growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and may have other adverse effects on
us in ways that we are unable to predict.        Our failure to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions could have an adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.        From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired
or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each acquisition poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining and assimilating clients and key employees, capitalizing on certain revenue synergies,
integrating the acquired company s accounting management information, internal controls and other administrative systems and technology. We may be required to spend a significant amount of time and resources to integrate these acquisitions and
the anticipated benefits may take longer to achieve than projected. Additionally, for a period of time after an acquisition we may be required to use the seller s technology systems until we are able to convert the acquired business to our own
technology systems. In the event that such technology conversion takes longer than anticipated, we may incur significant costs for the continued usage of the seller s technology. Moreover, to the extent we enter into an agreement to buy or sell
an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when anticipated, or at all. In particular, in certain instances we must seek regulatory approvals before we can acquire another organization, which can delay or disrupt such
acquisitions. If we fail to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions on a timely basis or in a cost-effective manner, we may not meet our expectations regarding the profitability of such acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.   

78     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 
 
      Market Risk           The ongoing Eurozone crisis, the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe, or a breakup of the European Monetary Union could have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations.        The financial markets remain concerned about the ability of certain European countries,
particularly Greece, Ireland and Portugal, but also others such as Spain and Italy, to finance their deficits and service growing debt burdens amidst difficult economic conditions. This loss of confidence has led to rescue measures for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal by Eurozone countries and the International Monetary Fund as well as the newly established European Stability Mechanism and the European Central Bank s Outright Monetary Transactions program to stabilize Eurozone
governments. Despite these efforts, yields on government bonds of certain Eurozone countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have remained volatile. The actions required to be taken by those countries as a condition to rescue
packages, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have resulted in increased political discord within and among Eurozone countries. We are primarily exposed to disruptions in European markets in three principal
areas   on our balance sheet, in certain interest bearing deposits with banks, loans, trading assets and investment securities, as well as our Investment Management and Investment Services fee revenue. Additionally, continued disruptions in
Europe could lead to increased client deposits and a larger balance sheet, which could adversely impact our leverage ratio. For additional information regarding our exposure, please see  International Operations   Exposure in Ireland,
Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report.      The partial or full
break-up of the European Monetary Union would be unprecedented and its impact highly uncertain. The exit of one or more countries from the European Monetary Union or the dissolution of the European Monetary Union could lead to redenomination of
certain obligations of obligors in exiting countries. Any such exit and redenomination would cause significant uncertainty with respect to outstanding obligations of counterparties and debtors in any exiting country, whether sovereign or otherwise,
and lead to complex and lengthy disputes and litigation. The resulting uncertainty and market stress could also cause, among other things, severe

disruption to equity markets, significant increases in bond yields generally, potential failure or default of financial institutions, including those of systemic importance, a significant
decrease in global liquidity, a freeze-up of global credit markets and a potential worldwide recession.      The interdependencies among European
economies and financial institutions have contributed to concerns regarding the stability of European financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. Financial services institutions are interdependent as a result of trading,
clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with European counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result,
defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more European financial institutions, or the financial markets generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses by us or by other
institutions in the future. Given the scope of our European operations, clients and counterparties, persistent disruptions in the European financial markets, the attempt of a country to abandon the Euro, the failure of a significant European
financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the Euro could have a material adverse impact on our business or results of operations.        Continuing uncertainty in financial markets and weakness in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.     
  Our results of operations may be materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the
United States and elsewhere around the world. A variety of factors raise concern over the course and strength of the economic recovery, including depressed home prices and continuing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment,
governmental budget deficits (including, in the United States, at the federal, state and municipal level), contagion risk from possible default by other countries on sovereign debt, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of
increased inflation. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions
would likely   

BNY
Mellon     79   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these
events, some of which are discussed at greater length in separate risk factors:       

The fees earned by our Investment Management business   that is, Asset Management and Wealth Management   are higher as assets under
management increase. Those fees are also impacted by the composition of the assets under management, with higher fees for some asset categories as compared to others. Uncertain and volatile capital markets could result in reductions in assets under
management because of investors  decisions to withdraw assets or from simple declines in the value of assets under management as markets decline. Uncertain and volatile financial markets may also result in changes in customer allocations of
funds among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives. Those changes in allocation may be from higher fee investments to lower fee investments. For example, at Dec. 31, 2012, using the S P 500 Index as a proxy for the
global equity markets, we estimate that a 100-point change in the value of the S P 500 Index spread evenly throughout the year, would impact fee revenue by less than 1% and diluted earnings per common share by $0.03 to $0.05.

Continuing run-off of structured debt securitizations could reduce our total annual revenue if the structured debt markets do not recover.

Uncertain and volatile capital markets, particularly declines, could reduce the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including
pension and other post-retirement plan assets.      

Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash
redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio
securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the level of liquidity that could be achieved from the portfolio securities in such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss
as a result of our operation of such funds.

Low interest rates may result in the voluntarily waiving of fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees by us and others in
order to prevent clients  yields on such funds from becoming uneconomic, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.      

The process we use to estimate our projected credit losses and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that
it requires use of statistical models and difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations. In uncertain
and volatile capital markets, our ability to estimate our projected credit losses may be impaired, which could adversely affect our overall profitability and results of operations.      
    Low or volatile interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.     
  Our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have
no control. Our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our
interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold.      The
global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. During the last three fiscal years, the Federal Open Market Committee has kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. In late 2012, the Federal Reserve announced
 QE3  and  QE4  programs to buy mortgaged backed securities and long-term U.S. Treasury securities. The Federal Reserve indicated that it would keep these measures in place and that it anticipated keeping the target federal funds
rate between 0% and 0.25% until such time as certain criteria relating to unemployment and inflation are met. In July 2012, the Governing Council of the European Central Bank lowered the deposit facility rate to 0%. The low interest rate environment
has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. It has also resulted in the voluntary waiving of fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees by us and others in order to prevent the yields on
such funds   

80     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

from becoming uneconomic, which has an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.      Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. A rising interest rate environment may result in our earning a larger net interest
spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment may result in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Further
rapid increases in interest rates could also trigger one or more of the following additional effects, which could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition:   

changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under  Asset/liability
management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report;      

an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in
interest rates;      

a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and      

increased borrowing costs.      
  A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the  Risk management  section in the MD A  
Results of Operations in this Annual Report.        Continued market volatility may adversely impact our business, financial condition and
results of operations and our ability to manage risk.        The capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and
disruption. Under these conditions, our hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. Further market volatility could produce downward
pressure on our stock price and credit availability without regard to our underlying financial strength. The broad decline in stock prices throughout the financial services industry since 2008, which has affected our common stock, could require us
to perform further goodwill impairment testing. While a substantial goodwill impairment charge would not have a significant impact on our financial condition, it would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For a discussion of
goodwill, see  Critical

accounting estimates   Goodwill and other intangibles  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report. In addition, severe market events have historically
been difficult to predict and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to reoccur. If markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be
material, on our ability to manage risk and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion of our management of market risk, see  Risk management-Market risk  in the MD A   Results of Operations
section in this Annual Report.        We may experience further write-downs of financial instruments that we own and other losses related to
volatile and illiquid market conditions, reducing our earnings.        We maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings,
types and maturities. These securities are primarily classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes U.S. Agency RMBS, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, sovereign and sovereign-guaranteed debt, non-agency U.S. and non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, European floating rate notes, commercial
mortgage-backed securities, municipal securities, foreign covered bonds, corporate bonds, collateralized loan obligations, consumer asset backed securities and other securities, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the
extent unhedged. This volatility affects the amount of our capital. In addition, if such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an
other-than-temporary impairment which could impact our revenue in the quarter in which we recognize the losses. For example, net securities losses totaled $4.8 billion in the third quarter of 2009, primarily as a result of a charge related to
restructuring the investment securities portfolio, which resulted in negative earnings per share that quarter. The losses in 2009 reflected both credit- and non-credit-related losses on our investment securities portfolio. We could experience losses
related to our investment securities portfolio in the future, which could ultimately adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. For information regarding our investment securities portfolio, refer to  Consolidated balance
sheet review   Investment securities  and for   

BNY
Mellon     81   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the  Risk management   Market risk 
sections both of which are in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report and Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.        We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, weak financial
markets or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.        Our principal operational focus is on fee-based
business, which is distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. Our fee-based businesses include investment management, custody, corporate
trust, depositary receipts, clearing, collateral management and treasury services.      Fees for many of our products and services are based on
the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions
activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues. If the volumes of these activities decrease, our revenues will also decrease, which would negatively impact our results of operations.
     Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller
percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. In addition, weak financial markets could result in reduced market values in some of the
assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets
activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective
funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other
collective funds, defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.        Our foreign exchange
revenues may continue to be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.     
  The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is
derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times
of decreased currency volatility.      Continuing declines in foreign exchange volatility could continue to impact our foreign exchange revenue.
In addition, our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military
actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity.         Credit and Liquidity Risk           Any material reduction in our credit
ratings or the credit ratings of our subsidiaries, The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., could increase the cost of funding and borrowing to us and our rated subsidiaries and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition.        Our debt and trust preferred securities and the debt and deposits of our subsidiaries, The Bank of New York
Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A., are currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our rated subsidiaries and their outlook on us and our rated subsidiaries. Their credit ratings are based
on a number of factors, including our financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within our control,

82     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally as well as the U.S. Government. In addition, rating agencies employ different models and formulas to assess the financial
strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to rating agency models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside of our control could impact a rating
agency s judgment of the rating or outlook it assigns us or our rated subsidiaries. In view of the difficulties experienced in recent years by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies have heightened their level of
scrutiny, increased the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, have requested additional information, and have adjusted upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of rating levels. For example, in March
2012, Moody s downgraded our long-term senior and subordinated debt and trust-preferred securities ratings as well as the long-term debt and deposit ratings of our bank subsidiaries by one notch.   
  Moreover, Moody s has indicated that regulatory changes in the Dodd-Frank Act could result in lower debt and deposit ratings for U.S. banks and
other financial institutions, including us, whose ratings currently benefit from assumed government support. Currently, our ratings benefit from one notch of  lift  and The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. benefit from two
notches of  lift  as a result of the rating agency s government support assumptions. Moody s continues to evaluate whether to reduce its support assumptions to below pre-financial crisis levels for banks that currently benefit
from ratings uplift. There can be no assurance that we or our rated subsidiaries will maintain our respective credit ratings or outlook on our securities.      A material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our rated subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our access to credit markets, the related cost of funding and borrowing,
our credit spreads, our liquidity and on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. Our credit spreads, which is the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities
(or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay our debt investors, may be impacted by our credit ratings and market perceptions of our creditworthiness. In addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivatives
contracts and other trading agreements, counterparties may require us to provide additional collateral or to terminate these contracts and

agreements and collateral financing arrangements in the event of a material credit ratings downgrade below certain ratings levels. Termination of these contracts and agreements could impair our
liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. An increase in the costs of our funding and borrowing, or an impairment of our liquidity, could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us. For further
discussion on the impact of a credit rating downgrade, see Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.   
    The failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are major financial institutions, and our assumption of credit
and counterparty risk, could expose us to loss and adversely affect our business.        Our ability to engage in routine funding
transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have
exposure to many different industries and counterparties, particularly with other financial institutions, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally,
have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions in the future. For example, as a result of our membership in several industry clearing or settlement exchanges, we may be
required to guarantee obligations and liabilities or provide financial support in the event that other members do not honor their obligations or default. These obligations may be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the
amount (or a multiple of the amount) of our contribution to a member s guarantee fund, or, in a few cases, the obligation may be unlimited. The consolidation of financial service firms and the failures of other financial institutions have
increased the concentration of our counterparty risk.   

BNY
Mellon     83   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 
 
   The degree of client demand for short-term credit also tends to increase during periods of market
turbulence, exposing us to further counterparty-related risks. For example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news that was not
anticipated by the fund s manager. Our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may result in our extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. For some types of clients, we provide credit to
allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences credit difficulties. In addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the
industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. As a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to one of its affiliates or
across product types is over-collateralized. Moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured and, when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may have declined by the time we exercise rights against that
collateral. This risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market. In addition, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times of
market stress and illiquidity.      We act as agent for securities lending arrangements between customers and financial counterparties, including
broker-dealers, wherein securities are sourced from our customers versus cash or securities posted by such financial counterparties. We invest the proceeds from such securities lending transactions pursuant to certain instructions or guidelines from
customers. In certain cases, we agree to indemnify our customers against defaults on the securities lending agreements and may have to buy-in the securities with the cash collateral or the proceeds from the liquidation of the collateral. In those
instances, we, rather than our customers, are exposed to the risks of the defaulting counterparty on the securities lending transaction.   
  Although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our
currency and other trading activities, our securities lending and tri-party repo businesses and our investment management business. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.

We have credit, regulatory and reputation risks as a result of our tri-party repo agent services,
which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.        BNY Mellon offers tri-party agent services to dealers and cash
investors active in the tri-party repurchase, or repo, market. BNY Mellon currently has approximately 80% of the market share of the U.S. tri-party repo market. As a tri-party repo agent, we facilitate settlement between dealers (cash borrowers) and
investors (cash lenders). Our involvement in a transaction commences after a dealer and a cash investor agree to a tri-party repo trade and send instructions to us. We maintain custody of the collateral (the subject securities of the repo) and
execute the payment and delivery instructions agreed to and provided by the principals.      Providing these tri-party repo agent services to
dealers and cash investors involves credit risk at certain points in time. To facilitate the tri-party repo market, we extend secured intraday credit to dealers. In the event of a default by a dealer to whom we have extended secured intraday credit,
we would be at risk for the market value of the collateral securing such intraday credit, and to the defaulting dealer for any shortfall after the liquidation of such collateral, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Once a
tri-party trade settles, however, BNY Mellon is no longer exposed to that dealer default risk.      BNY Mellon is working to reduce significantly
the risk associated with the secured intraday credit we provide with respect to the tri-party repo market. We have implemented several measures in that regard, including: reducing the amount of time we extend intraday credit, implementing three-way
trade confirmations, and automating the way dealers can substitute collateral in their tri-party repo trades. Additionally in 2013, we have limited the eligibility for intraday credit associated with tri-party repo transactions to certain more
liquid asset classes that will result in a reduction of exposures secured by less liquid forms of collateral by dealers. These efforts are consistent with the recommendations by the Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform Task Force that was sponsored
by the Payments Risk Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and included representatives from a diverse group of market participants, including BNY Mellon.      We anticipate that the combination of these measures will have reduced risks substantially in our tri-party repo activity in the near term and, together with

84     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 

technology enhancements currently in development will achieve the practical elimination of intraday credit in this activity, by the end of 2014. We believe the steps we are taking are responsive
to recent concerns voiced publicly by regulators that dealers and investors should reduce reliance on intraday credit provided by their tri-party repo agents and make risk management practices more resilient to a stress event in the tri-party repo
market. We anticipate that regulators will continue to monitor the actions of market participants and use available supervisory tools to encourage constructive and timely action to reduce sources of risk in the tri-party market. Failure to meet
regulatory expectations could result in regulatory and reputation risk and additional costs.        Our business, financial condition and
results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liquidity.        Our business is dependent in part on
our ability to meet our cash and collateral obligations at a reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flows. We rely on our client deposits as a low-cost and stable source of funding. If we lost a significant amount of deposits
(because, for example, we received a material downgrade in our credit ratings) we may need to replace such funding with more expensive funding and/or reduce assets, which would reduce our net interest revenue. In addition, the Parent s access
to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets are significant sources of liquidity. Events or circumstances often outside of our control, such as market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or
in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if
investors develop a negative perception of our financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we suffer a significant decline in the level of our business activity, we are materially downgraded, regulatory authorities take
significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered
assets, such as our investment portfolio, to meet funding needs. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations. Additionally, if we experience cash flow mismatches,

market constraints from our inability to convert assets to cash or raise cash in the markets or deposit run-off, our liquidity could be severely impacted. For a further discussion of our
liquidity, see  Liquidity and dividends  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in this Annual Report.        We could
incur income statement charges through provision expense if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.     
  When we loan money, commit to loan money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, or the risk of
losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their agreements. Our credit exposure is comprised of six classes of financing receivables: financial institutions, commercial,
commercial real estate, lease financings, wealth management loans and mortgages, and other residential mortgages. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default
in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us or when there is a significant change in the credit quality of our loan portfolio. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The allowance for loan
losses and allowance for lending related commitments represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio. We utilize a quantitative methodology, which is supplemented with a qualitative framework that takes into
account internal and external environmental factors that are not captured within the quantitative methodology. The quantitative methodology and qualitative framework determine the allowance for credit losses. We cannot provide any assurance as to
whether charge-offs related to our credit exposure may occur in the future. Current market and economic developments may increase default and delinquency rates and negatively impact the quality of our credit portfolio, which may impact our
charge-offs. If the allowance for credit losses is inadequate due to deterioration in the credit quality of the portfolio or significant charge-offs, we would be required to record credit loss provisions against current earnings, which could
adversely impact our net income.   

BNY
Mellon     85   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 
 
      Other Risk      
    Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net
income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.        In the course of our business, we receive
inquiries and challenges from both U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe. If we are not successful in defending these inquiries and challenges, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or
deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves
are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business. In addition,
changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income. See Notes 13 and 23 to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further information.   
    Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.     
  From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the International Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and bank regulators change the
financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements such as the potential adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard
retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. See  Recent Accounting Developments  in the MD A section and Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. These changes are difficult to
predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data.   
    We are a non-operating holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet
our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our stockholders and stock repurchases.        We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our

principal bank subsidiaries   The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.   and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other
subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our securities, and to provide funds for payment of common and
preferred dividends to our stockholders, to the extent declared by our Board of Directors.      There are various legal limitations on the extent
to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend
payments or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. In addition, our bank subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact
with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses.   
  Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if our principal banking subsidiaries or other subsidiaries were unable
to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our securities, declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock, or perform stock repurchases. See  Supervision and
Regulation , the  Liquidity and Dividends  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.   
  Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our securities, to a share of the assets of any
subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors) except to the extent that we may
ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our securities will be effectively
subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries.   

86     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Risk Factors    (continued)                 
 
     Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of
Directors and may be limited by the Federal Reserve, applicable provisions of Delaware law or our failure to pay full and timely dividends on our preferred stock.        Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash
dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. In addition, any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividend would require approval from the Federal Reserve. A failure to increase dividends along with our competitors, or
any reduction of, or elimination of, our common stock dividend would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock and market perceptions of BNY Mellon.      Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of our common stock or any of our shares that rank junior to the preferred stock as to the payment of dividends
and/or the distribution of any assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of BNY Mellon will be prohibited, subject to certain restrictions, in the

event that we do not declare and pay in full preferred dividends for the then current dividend period of our Series A preferred stock or the last preceding dividend period of our Series C
preferred stock.        Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our
stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.        Provisions of Delaware law and provisions
of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Additionally, our certificate of
incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a
third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. These provisions could also potentially deprive stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares of common stock at a premium over prevailing
market prices as a result of a takeover bid or merger.   

BNY
Mellon     87   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    

Evolving Regulatory Environment       BNY Mellon, together with its subsidiaries, engages in banking, investment advisory and other financial activities in the U.S. and 35 other countries, and is subject to extensive regulation. Global
supervisory authorities generally are charged with ensuring the safety and soundness of financial institutions, protecting the interests of customers, including depositors in banking entities and investors in mutual funds and other pooled vehicles,
and safeguarding the integrity of securities and other financial markets and promoting systemic resiliency and financial stability in the relevant country. They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of our stockholders or
non-deposit creditors. This discussion outlines the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us. Changes in these standards, or in their application, cannot be predicted, but may have a material effect on our businesses and
results of operations.      The financial services industry has been the subject of enhanced regulatory scrutiny in recent years and we expect
this trend to continue in the future. Our business has been subject to myriad new global reform measures. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act, when fully implemented, will significantly restructure the financial regulatory regime in the United States
and enhance supervision and prudential standards for BHCs like BNY Mellon. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses will depend to a large extent on the manner in which forthcoming rules are implemented by the primary U.S. financial
regulatory agencies   the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ), the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ). The implications will also depend upon
changes in market practices and structures in response to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and financial reforms in other jurisdictions. Many aspects of Dodd-Frank remain subject to further rulemaking, take effect over various transition
periods, or contain other elements that make it difficult to precisely anticipate their final impact. Dodd-Frank contains many major domestic reforms that will eventually be applicable to BNY Mellon; however, there are additional national and global
reform measures being considered by various policymakers that may materially impact us, including the U.S. implementation of the Basel III accord and several more general non-U.S. regulatory initiatives. Relevant regulatory initiatives, whether
national or global, are discussed further below.   
 
    Enhanced Prudential Standards       Sections 165 and 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act direct the Federal Reserve to enact heightened prudential standards applicable to financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more
(generally referred to as  systemically important financial institutions  or  SIFIs ), such as BNY Mellon. Dodd-Frank mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent
than those applicable to other financial companies. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued for public comment a notice of proposed rulemaking, which we refer to as the  Proposed SIFI Rules,  establishing enhanced prudential standards
for:       

risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits;      

stress testing of capital;      

liquidity requirements;      

overall risk management requirements; and      

single-counterparty credit exposure limits.         Only the rules addressing the stress testing of capital have been finalized and the ultimate impacts of the other proposals remain uncertain. The Proposed SIFI Rules also include draft requirements to
address Dodd-Frank s early remediation provisions. Those rules, as released, would require institutions to take remedial actions during the early stages of a company s financial distress, if specified trigger events occur.   
   Capital Planning        Payment of Dividends, Stock
Repurchases and Other Capital Distributions       The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank subsidiaries and other
subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from its subsidiaries are its principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to its subsidiaries, to service its own debt, to honor its guarantees of debt issued by its subsidiaries or of trust
preferred securities issued by a trust or to make its own capital distributions. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory consent. If, in the
opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the
payment of dividends), the   

88     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would
constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would reduce a depository institution s capital to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the  FDI Act ), an insured depository
institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements
which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.      In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, N.A., The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of
Delaware is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a  recent earnings  test and an  undivided profits  test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared and
paid by the entity in any calendar year exceeds the current year s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend
may not be paid in excess of the entity s  undivided profits  (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). The ability of it s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to the
Parent may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations.      BNY Mellon s capital distributions are
subject to Federal Reserve oversight. The major component of that oversight is the Federal Reserve s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ). The Federal Reserve s capital planning rules also include new Dodd-Frank
stress testing requirements, which were included in the Proposed SIFI Rules and adopted in final form in October 2012. The CCAR and stress testing requirements substantially overlap, and the Federal Reserve implements them at the BHC level on a
coordinated basis.      The rules require certain BHCs (including BNY Mellon) to submit annual capital plans to their respective Federal Reserve
Bank. We are also required to collect and report certain related data on a

quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor progress against the annual capital plans. BNY Mellon and other affected BHCs may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital
distributions only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC
will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and maintain a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5% on a  pro forma  basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning
horizon covered by the capital plan. The capital plan rules also stipulate that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and maintain a ratio
of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. As part of this process, BNY Mellon also provides the Federal Reserve with estimates of the composition and levels of regulatory capital, risk-weighted assets and other measures
under Basel III under an identified scenario. We submitted our 2013 capital plan to the Federal Reserve on Jan. 7, 2013. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it expects to publish either its objection or non-objection to the capital plan and
proposed capital actions, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, no later than March 14, 2013. We anticipate announcing our 2013 capital plan shortly thereafter.      The purpose of CCAR is to ensure that these BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic
and financial stress. The CCAR rule, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board guidance, provides that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. BNY
Mellon s common stock dividend payout ratio was 26% in 2012.       Regulatory Stress-Testing Requirements    
  In October 2012, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC finalized regulations implementing the stress testing requirements required under the Dodd-Frank Act.
Under these regulations, we are required to undergo regulatory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve annually, and to conduct our own internal stress tests pursuant to regulatory requirements twice annually. In addition, both BNY Mellon,
N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon are required to   

BNY
Mellon     89   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

conduct their own annual internal stress tests (although these banks are permitted to combine certain reporting and disclosure of their stress test results with the results of BNY Mellon). These
requirements, which began in the fourth quarter of 2012, involve both company-run and supervisory-run testing of capital under various scenarios, including baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios provided by the appropriate banking
regulator. Results from our annual company-run stress tests will be reported to the appropriate regulators and we will be required to publish summaries of the results of the company-run stress tests under the severely adverse scenario beginning in
March 2013. In addition, the Federal Reserve will publish summaries of the results of the Federal Reserve-run stress tests under the severely adverse scenario beginning in March 2013.       Capital Requirements   Basel III Accord and Existing U.S. Requirements       As a BHC, we are
subject to consolidated regulatory capital rules administered by the Federal Reserve. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements, administered by the Federal Reserve in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the OCC in
the case of our national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. These requirements are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of
their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.      Since the late 1980s, the U.S. banking agencies  capital rules have been based
on accords agreed to by the Basel Committee. These frameworks include:       

Risk-based capital guidelines applicable to all BHCs and banks based on the Basel I agreement. The banking agencies refer to these rules as the
 general risk-based capital rules .      

Risk-based capital rules applicable to BHCs (including BNY Mellon) and banks having $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or
more in foreign exposures, based upon the advanced internal ratings-based approach for credit risk and the advanced measurement approach for operational risk within the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision s comprehensive June 2006 release
entitled  International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework , known as  Basel II . The agencies refer to these rules as the  Advanced Approaches risk-based capital rules .

In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange
and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with significant trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by
using the banking organizations  own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators. In January 2011, certain of the federal banking agencies published proposed amendments to their market risk rules, implementing
revisions to the Basel framework, commonly known as  Basel II.5 . In June 2012, federal banking agencies issued the final Market Risk rules that amend the Basel I Market Risk rules effective Jan. 1, 2013.   
  In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation in response to the
financial crisis, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as  Basel III . On June 7, 2012, the federal banking agencies issued three NPRs that would substantially revise the agencies  existing capital rules (both general
and advanced approaches). The NPRs would (i) implement Basel III for U.S. BHCs and banks (including by redefining the components of capital and establishing higher minimum percentages for applicable capital ratios) and (ii) substantially
revise the agencies  general risk-based capital rules to make them more risk sensitive. Comments on the NPRs were due on Oct. 22, 2012. As proposed by the NPRs, the Basel III-based amendments would have become effective Jan. 1, 2013, with
phase-in periods that are consistent with Basel III. On Nov. 9, 2012, the agencies confirmed that the proposed rules would not become effective on Jan. 1, 2013, but without specifying the effectiveness date that would apply. If these rules when
adopted preserve the Basel III implementation schedule, they are expected to be fully phased-in by Jan. 1, 2019. The NPRs provided that the risk-weightings in the new standardized approach, discussed below, would not become effective until
Jan. 1, 2015.       General Risk-Based Capital Rules       Under the general risk-based capital rules, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the sum of the capital components described further below, by risk-weighted assets (including certain
off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The general risk-based capital rules provide that voting common stockholders  equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital and that

90     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

banks should avoid over-reliance on non-common equity elements. Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted categories. The
required minimum ratio of Total capital (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) to risk-adjusted assets is currently 8.0%. The required minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4.0%. These rules are minimum standards
based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk to which a banking organization may be exposed. The federal banking agencies retain significant discretion to set higher capital requirements
for categories of banks, or for an individual bank as situations warrant. At Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon s Basel I Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and Total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 15.0% and 16.3%, respectively.
      Advanced Approaches Risk-Based Capital Rules       The U.S. banking agencies  Advanced Approaches risk-based capital rules, which, as noted above are based on Basel II s Advanced Approaches, became effective on April 1, 2008. Under these
rules, 2009 was the first year that a bank could begin its first of three transitional floor periods during which banks calculate their capital requirements under both the old regulations and new regulations. The rules originally provided that
Advanced Approaches banks would calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of a successful parallel run and the three transitional floor periods. In the U.S., we began the parallel run of
calculations under both the old and new guidelines in the second quarter of 2010. Our capital models are currently with the Federal Reserve for their approval. In response to a Dodd-Frank requirement, the federal banking agencies have amended their
capital rules to provide that minimum capital as required under the general risk-based capital rules will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with the advanced approaches rules. Accordingly, the three-year
transition to calculations only under the Basel II-based requirements will be eliminated.       The NPRs   Basel II and the New
Standardized Approach       The NPRs released by the U.S. banking agencies are generally consistent with the Basel III accord and would
redefine the components of capital in the numerators of regulatory capital ratios in a more narrow way than existing standards, increase the

minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the agencies  advanced approaches and general risk-based capital guidelines, and primarily, with respect to securitizations and exposures to
certain counterparties, change the measure of risk-weighted assets in the denominators of regulatory capital ratios. The NPRs, like Basel III, provide for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to Tier 1 common equity. These include, for
example, providing that unrealized gains and losses on all available for sale debt securities would  not  be filtered out for regulatory capital purposes, and the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon
future taxable income, defined pension fund assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from Tier 1 common equity to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of Tier 1 common equity or all such
categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of Tier 1 common equity. At Dec. 31, 2012, we did not exceed either threshold. In addition, the NPRs would redefine regulatory capital elements resulting in, among other things, cumulative perpetual
preferred stock and trust preferred instruments no longer qualifying as Tier 1 capital, subject to a phase-out schedule.      The NPRs, consistent
with Basel III require higher capital ratios for all banking institutions. As a result, when fully phased-in on Jan. 1, 2019, banking institutions will be required to satisfy three risk-based capital ratios:   

A Tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 7.0%, 4.5% attributable to a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio and 2.5% attributable to a  capital
conservation buffer       

A Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0%, exclusive of the capital conservation buffer (8.5% upon full implementation of the capital conservation
buffer); and      

A total capital ratio of at least 8.0%, exclusive of the capital conservation buffer (10.5% upon full implementation of the capital conservation
buffer).         All banking institutions will be subject to a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0% after giving effect to the NPRs
(calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average consolidated total assets as reflected on the institution s consolidated financial statements, net of amounts deducted from capital). Additionally, the NPRs, consistent with Basel
III, would subject Advanced Approaches banking institutions to a supplementary leverage ratio commencing Jan. 1, 2015 with full implementation on Jan. 1, 2018. The

BNY
Mellon     91   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

new supplementary leverage ratio would be calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average balance sheet exposures plus certain average off-balance sheet exposures.   
  The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of Tier 1 common equity
to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) are expected to face constraints on dividends, equity
repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.      The NPRs apply Basel III s capital conservation buffer to all banking
institutions, but apply its countercyclical capital buffer, when applicable, only to advanced approaches banks. The NPRs permit advanced approaches institutions, such as BNY Mellon, to calculate both the capital conservation buffer and the
countercyclical capital buffer using solely Advanced Approaches risk-weightings, rather than applying a floor based on the general risk-based capital rules.      In November 2011, the Basel Committee announced the final framework for applying a new Tier 1 common equity surcharge to certain global systemically important banks ( G-SIBs ), including BNY
Mellon. In its Proposed SIFI Rules and the NPRs, the Federal Reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate rulemaking, a Tier 1 common equity surcharge for G-SIBs based on the Basel Committee s final rules. In November 2012, the
Basel Committee and the Financial Stability Board updated the list of G-SIBs, and identified provisional Tier 1 common equity surcharges applicable to each G-SIB, including BNY Mellon. Each G-SIB would initially be assigned to one of four
 buckets , with the capital surcharges for those buckets ranging from 1% to 2.5%. In November 2012, BNY Mellon was provisionally assigned to the 1.5% capital surcharge bucket.      At Dec. 31, 2012, our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.8%, on a fully phased-in basis, based on our understanding of the NPRs and the final market risk rules and calculated under the
Advanced Approaches basis, as proposed to be amended by the NPRs. The increase in the ratio from 7.1% at Dec. 31, 2011, which was calculated under prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule, was primarily due to a reduction in
risk-weighted assets related to the treatment of sub-investment grade

securities under the NPRs, earnings retention and an increase in the value of the investment portfolio, partially offset by balance sheet growth in 2012. We expect the approximately $850 million
charge related to the Feb. 11, 2013 U.S. Tax Court ruling will decrease the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio by approximately 55 basis points. We believe that our fee-based model enables us to maintain a relatively low risk asset mix, primarily
composed of high-quality securities, central bank deposits, liquid placements and predominantly investment grade loans.      The components of the
NPRs related to the standardized approach would amend the agencies  Basel I risk-based capital guidelines and replace the risk-weighting categories currently used to calculate risk-weighted assets in the denominator of capital ratios with a
broader array of risk weighting categories that are intended to be more risk sensitive. The new risk-weights for the standardized approach range from 0% to 600% compared with the risk-weights of 0% to 100%, in general, in the agencies  existing
Basel I risk-based capital guidelines. Higher risk-weights would apply to a variety of exposures, including certain securitization exposures, equity exposures, claims on securities firms and exposures to counterparties on OTC derivatives.
Compared with Basel I, the risk-weighting changes likely to have significance for BNY Mellon are the replacement of the 20% risk-weight for banks with OECD country risk classification ratings, increased risk-weights for residential mortgages, the
removal of the 50% risk-weight cap on derivative transactions, the 100% risk-weight for exposures to securities firms, and the elimination of the 0% risk-weight for commitments of less than one year. In addition, advanced approaches banking
organizations will calculate risk-based capital ratios under both the generally applicable standardized approach and the advanced approaches rule, and then use the lower of each capital ratio to determine whether it meets its minimum risk-based
capital requirements.       Liquidity Ratios under Basel III       Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and BHC liquidity have been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III
final framework requires banks and BHCs to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes,
going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as   

92     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

the liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity s
expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio ( NSFR ), is designed to promote
more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. The Basel III liquidity framework, as modified in January 2013, contemplates that the LCR will be introduced Jan. 1, 2015 with the
minimum requirement beginning at 60%, rising in equal annual steps of 10 percentage points to reach 100% on Jan. 1, 2019. Similarly, it contemplates that the NSFR will be subject to an observation period through mid-2016 and, subject to any
revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard by Jan. 1, 2018.      The Proposed SIFI Rules address liquidity requirements for certain U.S. BHCs, including BNY Mellon. In the release accompanying those rules, the Federal Reserve states a general intention to incorporate
the Basel III liquidity framework for the BHCs covered by the Proposed SIFI Rules or a  subset  of those BHCs. Although the Proposed SIFI Rules do not include prescriptive ratios like the LCR and NSFR, they do include detailed
liquidity-related requirements, including requirements for cash flow projections, liquidity stress testing (including, at a minimum, over time horizons that include an overnight time horizon, a 30-day time horizon, a 90-day time horizon and a
one-year time horizon), and a requirement that covered BHCs maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and the projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days
over a range of liquidity stress scenarios.       Prompt Corrective Action       The FDI Act, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ), requires the federal banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action  in
respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks:  well capitalized ,  adequately capitalized ,  undercapitalized ,
 significantly undercapitalized  and  critically undercapitalized . A depository institution is deemed to be  well capitalized  if the depository institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater,

a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive or prompt
corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which
an institution is classified. The U.S. banking agencies  capital NPRs, discussed above under  Capital Requirements , would amend the prompt corrective action requirements in certain respects, including adding the Basel III Tier 1
common equity risk-based capital ratio as one of the metrics (with a minimum of 6.5% for  well capitalized  status), increasing the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio required at various levels (for example, from 6.0% to 8.0% for  well
capitalized  status), and, for advanced approaches banks only, adding the Basel III-based supplementary leverage ratio at a minimum of 3% for  adequately capitalized  status.      At Dec. 31, 2012, all of our bank subsidiaries were  well capitalized  based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank s capital category, however, is determined solely for the
purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank s overall financial condition or prospects.       Volcker Rule       Dodd-Frank mandated that the U.S. banking agencies, the SEC and CFTC adopt rules that
prohibit banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain hedge funds and private equity funds. This provision is commonly called the Volcker Rule. While the Volcker Rule s statutory
provisions became effective on July 21, 2012, the Federal Reserve issued interim guidance on April 19, 2012 that provided that banks and their affiliates must conform their covered activities and investments with the final Volcker Rule
regulations by July 21, 2014. Banks and their affiliates are expected to engage in good-faith efforts that will result in conformance of all of their covered activities and investments by no later than the end of the conformance period. The
Volcker Rule regulations have yet to be finalized and adopted. Regulators have proposed rules to implement the Volcker Rule, and until those rules are finalized, their application and impact will remain uncertain. BNY Mellon may be affected by an
overly inclusive designation of covered funds, which could affect our ability to provide seed

BNY
Mellon     93   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

capital to launch new hedge funds, private equity funds and other covered funds. In addition, our ability to engage in certain transactions with covered funds (including, without limitation,
certain U.S. funds for which BNY Mellon acts as both sponsor/manager and custodian) could be affected. This latter provision may also affect BNY Mellon s ability to perform certain traditional custodial operational activities for these covered
funds.       Derivatives       U.S. regulators
are in the process of implementing comprehensive rules governing the supervision, structure, trading and regulation of cleared and over-the-counter derivatives markets and participants. Dodd-Frank requires a large number of rulemakings in this area,
many of which are not yet final. Once these rules are finalized, they could affect the way various BNY Mellon subsidiaries operate, and changes to the markets and participants will impact business models and profitability of certain BNY Mellon
subsidiaries.       Money Market Fund Reforms       Authorities have also focused on risks that money market funds may pose to financial stability. In November 2012, the Financial Stability Oversight Council proposed several recommendations for money
market mutual fund reform, which include requiring money market funds to use a floating net asset value, requiring them to maintain a capital buffer of up to 1% of a fund s value coupled with a holdback of 3 to 5% on redemptions to create a
 first loss  position and discourage runs, and requiring them to maintain a capital buffer of up to 3% of a fund s value combined with other measures, such as investment diversification requirements, minimum liquidity levels, and/or
more robust diversification requirements. It is premature to predict the outcome of these discussions and proposals, but regulatory changes to the money market fund industry could materially impact the operations and profitability of BNY Mellon.
      Tri-Party Repo Reform       BNY Mellon
offers tri-party agent services to dealers and cash investors active in the tri-party repurchase, or repo, market. As a tri-party repo agent, we facilitate settlement between dealers (cash borrowers) and investors (cash lenders). Our involvement in
a transaction commences after a dealer and a cash investor agree to a tri-party repo trade and send

instructions to us. We maintain custody of the collateral (the subject securities of the repo) and execute the payment and delivery instructions agreed to and provided by the principals.
     Regulatory agencies worldwide have begun to re-examine systemic risks in various financial markets, including the tri-party repo market, in
which we act as a tri-party repo agent. The Payment Risk Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York sponsored a Task Force on Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform to examine the risks in the tri-party repo market and to decide what changes
should be implemented so that such risks may be mitigated or avoided in the future. The Task Force issued its recommendations on May 17, 2010 and its final report regarding the tri-party repo market on Feb. 15, 2012. BNY Mellon is working to
implement recommendations by the Task Force to significantly reduce the risk associated with the secured intraday credit we provide with respect to the tri-party repo market. BNY Mellon has implemented several measures in that regard,
including reducing the amount of time we extend intraday credit, implementing three-way trade confirmations, and automating the way dealers can substitute collateral in their tri-party repo trades. Additionally, in 2013, we have limited the
eligibility for intraday credit associated with tri-party repo transactions to certain more liquid asset classes that will result in a reduction of exposures secured by less liquid forms of collateral by dealers. We anticipate that the combination
of these measures will have reduced risks substantially in our tri-party repo activity in the near term and, together with technology enhancements currently in development, will achieve the practical elimination of intraday credit in this activity
by the end of 2014.      Since May 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has released monthly reports on the tri-party repo market, including
information on aggregate volumes of collateral used in all tri-party repo transactions by asset class, concentrations, and margin levels, which is available at http://www.newyorkfed.org/tripartyrepo/margin_data.html.   
   Resolution Planning       As required by the
Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and FDIC jointly issued a final rule requiring certain organizations, including each BHC with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, to report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for its rapid and
orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. In addition, the FDIC

94     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

issued a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as The Bank of New York Mellon, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for
resolution in the event of the institution s failure.      The two resolution plan rules are complementary and we submitted our initial
resolution plan in conformity with both rules on Oct. 1, 2012. The public portions of our resolution plan are available on the FDIC s website. We are required to submit updated resolution plans annually by July 1. Resolution planning
efforts might also become required in foreign jurisdictions where we have operations, and we submitted the first phase of our UK resolution pack to the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ) in June of 2012.   
   Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company       If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC
has the power:       

to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed  bridge  bank without
the approval of the depository institution s creditors;      

to enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the
appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or      

to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to
be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.         In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority
over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC
ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank.

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as the  orderly liquidation authority )
for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including BHCs and their affiliates. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its failed non-bank
subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S.
financial system.      If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the
rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the
orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the FDI Act. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain
respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors  claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as
between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors  claims (as opposed to the judicial
procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a  bridge  entity.      The orderly
liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of Dodd-Frank, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification. The FDIC has
completed its initial phase of rulemaking under the orderly liquidation authority, but additional rules are under consideration. These rules may affect the manner in which the new authority is applied, particularly with respect to broker-dealer and
futures commission merchant subsidiaries of BHCs.       Depositor Preference       Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a

BNY
Mellon     95   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution
by any receiver. The FSA published a consultation paper in Sept. 2012 concerning the implications of national depositor preference regimes of countries not within the European Economic Area ( EEA ) (including, among others, the U.S.) that
prioritize the claims of home-country depositors over those of depositors outside the home country if a deposit taking banking organization becomes insolvent. The proposed new FSA rules would prohibit firms, including BNY Mellon, from non-EEA
countries that operate such regimes from accepting deposits through a UK branch, unless measures are introduced to eliminate the perceived   
  disadvantage to UK depositors caused by the subordination of their claims in favor of home country depositors. The proposal would also require certain
depositor notice undertakings. The FSA initially intended that these new standards would start to take effect by January 2013, with a full compliance deadline of January 2015, but the consultation period for its proposal was extended to Jan. 31,
2013. The FDIC recently initiated a related rulemaking to clarify the treatment of non-U.S. deposits in a bank resolution and for deposit insurance purposes.       Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders       Transactions between BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries,
on the one hand, and BNY Mellon and its non-bank subsidiaries, on the other, are regulated by the Federal Reserve. These regulations limit the types and amounts of transactions (including loans due and extensions of credit from the U.S. bank
subsidiaries) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arm s-length basis. These regulations generally do not apply to transactions between a U.S. bank subsidiary and its subsidiaries. In general, these
restrictions require that any extensions of credit by a BNY Mellon bank subsidiary to BNY Mellon or to a BNY Mellon non-bank subsidiary must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or
such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank s capital stock and surplus.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization. For example,
commencing in July 2012, the Dodd-Frank

Act required that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions apply to financial subsidiaries. Commencing in July 2012, Dodd-Frank also expanded the definition of a  covered
transaction  to include derivatives transactions and securities lending transactions with a non-bank affiliate under which a bank (or its subsidiary) has credit exposure (with the term  credit exposure  to be defined by the Federal
Reserve under its existing rulemaking authority). Collateral requirements will apply to such transactions as well as to certain repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.       Deposit Insurance       Our U.S. banking subsidiaries, including The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY
Mellon, N.A., accept deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limit. The current limit for FDIC insurance for deposit accounts is $250,000 for each depositor account. For noninterest-bearing transaction
accounts, temporary unlimited deposit insurance coverage ceased on January 1, 2013. Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound
practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank s federal regulatory agency.   
  The FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund (the  DIF ) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC assesses DIF premiums
based on a bank s average consolidated total assets, less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period. For larger institutions, such as The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.,
assessments are determined based on CAMELS ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FDIC to determine whether and to what extent adjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for custody banks.
During 2011, the FDIC concluded that certain liquid assets could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks that satisfy certain institutional eligibility criteria. This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF
insurance premiums due from custody banks. The Bank of New York Mellon is a custody bank for this purpose. The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed total

96     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and safekeeping asset.       Source of Strength and Liability of Affiliates       Federal Reserve policy historically has required
BHCs to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Such support may be required by the
Federal Reserve at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. In the
event of a BHC s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, in certain
circumstances BNY Mellon s insured depository institutions could be assessed for losses incurred by another BNY Mellon insured depository institution. In the event of impairment of the capital stock of one of BNY Mellon s national banks or
The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, as the banks  stockholder, could be required to pay such deficiency.       Incentive Compensation
Arrangements Proposal       The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines regarding incentive-based
compensation practices at certain financial institutions. On April 14, 2011, federal regulators including the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the SEC, issued a proposed rule which, among other things, would require certain executive officers of
covered financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as ours, to defer at least 50% of their annual incentive-based compensation for a minimum of three years. The comment period on the proposed rule closed
May 31, 2011. Final regulations have not been issued as of this date.       Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act    
  A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT
Act of 2001 contains numerous anti-money laundering requirements for financial institutions that are applicable to BNY Mellon s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds

and private investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and
controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain
correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons.       Privacy    
  The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal
financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to  opt out  of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among
affiliates for marketing purposes.       Acquisitions       Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or BHCs. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for
the direct or indirect acquisition by a BHC of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or BHC. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications,
the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the
applicant s record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 which requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities (including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies) and the effectiveness of the
subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, prior Federal Reserve approval would be required for certain large non-banking acquisitions and investments.       Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon and Ancillary Regulatory Requirements       BNY Mellon is regulated as a
BHC and a financial holding company ( FHC ) under the Bank Holding

BNY
Mellon     97   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

Company Act of 1956, as amended by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and by the Dodd-Frank Act (the  BHC Act ). We are subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve. In general, the BHC Act
limits a BHC s business activities to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities incidental to banking, and engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the
shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either financial in nature or complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally.
     A BHC s ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including:   

its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed  under the
prompt corrective regulations of the appropriate regulatory agency (discussed above under  Prompt Corrective Action  and      

the BHC itself, qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed  under applicable Federal Reserve
regulations.         An FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which
requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities, or make acquisitions, that are not generally permissible for BHCs without FHC status or to continue such activities.   
  The Bank of New York Mellon, which is BNY Mellon s largest bank subsidiary, is a New York state chartered bank, a member of the Federal Reserve
System and subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve and the New York State Department of Financial Services. BNY Mellon s national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, National Association, are chartered as national banking associations subject to primary regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC.      We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities in the United States. These companies are SEC-registered broker-dealers and members of
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), a securities industry self-regulatory organization. BNY Mellon s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated

by supervisory agencies in the countries in which they conduct business. Certain of BNY Mellon s public finance and advisory activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board. Certain of BNY Mellon s subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation. BNY Mellon also has a subsidiary that clears futures and
derivatives trades on behalf of institutional clients and is registered with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant and is a member of the National Futures Association. The Bank of New York Mellon provisionally registered as a Swap Dealer (as
defined in the Dodd-Frank Act) with the CFTC, through the National Futures Association. As a Swap Dealer, The Bank of New York Mellon is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the CFTC. In connection with certain Dodd-Frank clearing
requirements, The Bank of New York Mellon became a member of LCH Clearnet Limited s SwapClear interest rate swap clearing service in 2012.   
  Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and as such are supervised by the
SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of any countries in which they conduct business. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the
SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the   40 Act ), including the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the  40 Act.   
  Certain of our investment management, trust and custody operations provide services to employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), administered by the U.S. Department of Labor. ERISA imposes certain statutory duties, liabilities, disclosure obligations, and restrictions on fiduciaries, as applicable, related to the
services being performed and fees being paid. Certain proposed expansions of the definition of a fiduciary could require certain BNY Mellon businesses to modify their practices, which could adversely affect results of such businesses.   
   Operations and Regulations Outside of the United States       In Europe, The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV ( BNY Mellon SA/NV ) is a public limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Belgium.

98     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

BNY Mellon SA/NV, which has been granted a banking license by the National Bank of Belgium, is authorized to carry out all banking and savings activities as a credit institution. BNY Mellon SA/NV
conducts its activities in Belgium as well as through branch offices in the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, France and Germany.   
  Effective Feb. 1, 2013, The Bank of New York Mellon (Ireland) Limited (the  Irish Bank ) merged with the BNY Mellon SA/NV. As part of the
merger process, BNY Mellon SA/NV established a branch in Ireland. As of and from Feb. 1, 2013, this branch carries on the business activity in Ireland which was previously conducted by the Irish Bank.   
  Certain of our financial services operations in the UK are subject to regulation by and supervision of the FSA. The FSA has broad supervisory and
disciplinary powers, which include the power to revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( FSMA 2000 ) and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of
registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. The FSA regulates The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited, our UK-chartered bank, as well as the UK branches of The Bank of New
York Mellon and BNY Mellon SA/NV. In addition, the FSA regulates our trust and depositary and certain of our corporate trust businesses. Certain of BNY Mellon s UK incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the
UK pursuant to the FSMA 2000. Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the FSA. Certain UK investment funds, including BNY Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended
investment company with variable capital advised by UK-regulated subsidiaries of BNY Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the UK. The UK government has announced that it intends to abolish the FSA and to establish
in its place three new regulatory bodies, the Financial Policy Committee, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority. All changes are expected to take effect early- to mid-2013.   
  The European Union ( EU ) Commission has proposed a regulation conferring powers on the European Central Bank (the  ECB ) for the
prudential supervision of all banks in the Eurozone, with a mechanism for non-euro countries to join on a voluntary basis. The ECB and EU Member State National Competent Authorities will together be a

Single Supervisory Mechanism ( SSM ). Key proposals address the scope of those credit institutions that will fall within the SSM, how they will be supervised and regulated and the
investigation, enforcement and other powers of the ECB. Certain of BNY Mellon s European subsidiaries would fall within the SSM, including most likely BNY Mellon SA/NV. In addition, a Recovery and Resolution Directive has been proposed and is
expected to be voted on in the European Parliament in early- to mid- 2013. This Directive would set out a recovery and resolution framework for the EU, similar in some respects to the Federal Reserve s and FDIC s resolution plan rules
described above under  Resolution Planning , and would provide a minimum set of harmonized tools and powers to resolve or implement recovery of relevant credit institutions and other firms and entities, including branches of non-EEA banks
operating within the EEA. Key elements include the preparation of recovery and resolution plans; removing barriers to resolution; entering into intra-group financial support arrangements; giving relevant EEA regulators responsible for supervision,
powers to impose certain requirements on an institution that is in financial difficulty before resolution actions become necessary; and giving authorities a set of resolution tools and powers to facilitate the resolution of failing entities, such as
the power to  bail-in  the debt of an institution and the power to require a firm to change their legal or operating structure to remove impediments to resolvability. Various BNY Mellon subsidiaries and branches are expected to fall within
the scope of this Directive.      In addition, the Capital Requirements Directive IV (and related Regulation) ( CRD IV ) will affect BNY
Mellon s EU subsidiaries by implementing Basel III and other changes, including the enhancement of the quality of capital, and the strengthening of capital requirements for counterparty credit risk, resulting in higher capital requirements.
Elements of CRD IV will apply not only to BNY Mellon banking branches and subsidiaries but also to investment management and brokerage entities.      Our Investment Management and Investment Services businesses are subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding,
administration and management of client assets and client funds. Various new and revised European Directives will impact our provision of these services, including revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, the new Alternative
Investment Fund   

BNY
Mellon     99   

Table of Contents  

Supervision and Regulation    (continued)                 

Managers Directive, the Directive on Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities, the Central Securities Depository Regulation, the European Market Infrastructure
Regulation and the Securities Law Legislation. These new and revised European Directives will impact our operations and risk profile and provide new opportunities for the provision of BNY Mellon products and services.   
  The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international

subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory
authorities of the countries in which they operate and, in the case of banking subsidiaries, may be subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of Dec. 31, 2012, each of BNY Mellon s non-U.S.
banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.   

100     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting Developments    

Recently Issued Accounting Standards     
   ASU 2011-11 Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities       In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU 2011-11 ),  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities .
Entities are required to disclose both gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the balance sheet and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting
arrangement. This scope would include derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements and reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending arrangements. The objective of this disclosure is to facilitate comparison
between those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of U.S. GAAP and those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of IFRS. The amendments are effective for reporting periods beginning on or after Jan.
1, 2013. An entity would be required to provide the disclosures required by those amendments retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. Additionally, on Jan. 31, 2013 the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-01, Clarifying the Scope of
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. ASU 2013-01 clarifies that ordinary trade receivables and receivables are not in the scope of ASU No. 2011-11. This ASU will not impact our results of operations.   
   ASU 2012-02 Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment       In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU 2012-02,  Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment . This guidance allows an entity an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine
whether it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If the intangible asset is impaired, an entity is required to perform the quantitative impairment test. An entity is not
required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired. An entity choosing to perform the
qualitative assessment would need to identify and consider the events and circumstances that, individually or in the aggregate, most significantly affect an indefinite-lived intangible asset s fair value. Examples of events and circumstances
that should be considered, include deterioration in the entity s

operating environment, entity-specific events, such as a change in management, and overall financial performance, such as negative or declining cash flows. An entity also should consider any
positive and mitigating events and circumstances, as well as whether there have been changes to the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. An entity can choose to perform the qualitative assessment on none, some, or all of its
indefinite-lived intangible assets. An entity can bypass the qualitative assessment and perform the quantitative impairment test for any indefinite-lived intangible in any period. This ASU is effective for annual and interim impairment tests
performed for fiscal years beginning after Sept. 15, 2012.       ASU 2013-02 Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income       In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income . This ASU requires the presentation of the effects on the line items of net income of significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income   but only if the item reclassified is required
under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period; and a cross-reference to other disclosures currently required under U.S. GAAP for other reclassification items (that are not required under U.S. GAAP) to
be reclassified directly to net income in their entirety in the same reporting period. However, it will not amend the current requirements for the reporting of net income or other comprehensive income in the financial statements. The amendments are
effective for reporting periods beginning after Dec. 15, 2012.        Proposed Accounting Standards     
   Proposed ASU Revenue from Contracts with Customers       In June 2010, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Revenue from Contracts with Customers . This proposed ASU is the result of a joint project of the FASB and the IASB to clarify the principles for
recognizing revenue and develop a common standard for U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This proposed ASU would establish a broad principle that would require an entity to identify the contract with a customer, identify the separate performance obligations in the
contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the separate performance obligations and recognize revenue when each separate

BNY
Mellon     101   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting Developments    (continued)                 

performance obligation is satisfied. In 2011, the FASB and the IASB revised several aspects of the original proposal to include distinguishing between goods and services, segmenting contracts,
accounting for warranty obligations and deferring contract origination costs.      In November 2011, the FASB re-exposed the proposed ASU. A final
standard is expected to be issued in 2013. A retrospective application transition method would be permitted, but the FASB and IASB provides a practicable expedient to reduce the burden on preparers. The FASB and IASB tentatively decided that the
effective date of the proposed standard would be annual reporting periods beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2017.       Proposed ASU Principal
versus Agent Analysis       In November 2011, the FASB issued a proposed ASU  Principal versus Agent Analysis . This proposed ASU
would rescind the 2010 indefinite deferral of FAS 167 for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, hedge funds, mortgage real estate investment funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds, and amends the pre-existing guidance for
evaluating consolidation of voting general partnerships and similar entities. The proposed ASU also amends the criteria for determining whether an entity is a variable interest entity under FAS 167, which could affect whether an entity is within its
scope. Accordingly, certain funds that previously were not consolidated must be reviewed to determine whether they will now be required to be consolidated. The proposed accounting standard will continue to require BNY Mellon to determine whether or
not it has a variable interest in a variable interest entity. However, consolidation of its variable interest entity and voting general partnership asset management funds will be based on whether or not BNY Mellon, as the asset manager, uses its
power as a decision maker as either a principal or an agent. Based on a preliminary review of the proposed ASU, we do not expect to be required to consolidate additional mutual funds, hedge funds, mortgage real estate investment funds, private
equity funds, and venture capital funds. In addition, we expect to de-consolidate a substantial portion of the CLOs we currently consolidate, with further deconsolidation possible depending on future changes to BNY Mellon s investment in
subordinated notes. The FASB is currently evaluating comment letters received. A final ASU is expected to be issued during the second quarter of 2013.

FASB and IASB project on Leases       In August 2010, the FASB and IASB issued a joint proposed ASU,  Leases . FASB has tentatively decided that lessees would apply a  right-of-use  accounting model. This would require the
lessee to recognize both a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability to make lease payments at the lease commencement date, both measured at the present value of the lease payments. The right-of-use asset would be amortized on a systematic
basis that would reflect the pattern of consumption of the economic benefits of the leased asset. The liability to make lease payments would be subsequently de-recognized over time by applying the effective interest method to apportion the periodic
payment to reductions in the liability to make lease payments and interest expense. Lessors would account for leases by applying a  receivable and residual  accounting approach for those leases where the lessee acquires and consumes more
than an insignificant portion of the underlying asset over the lease term. The lessor would recognize a right to receive lease payments and a residual asset at the date of the commencement of the lease. The lessor would initially measure the right
to receive lease payments at the sum of the present value of the lease payments, discounted using the rate the lessor charges the lessee. The lessor would initially measure the residual asset as an allocation of the carrying amount of the underlying
asset and would subsequently measure the residual asset by accreting it over the lease term, using the rate the lessor charges the lessee. The FASB is expected to re-expose the standard during 2013.   
   Proposed ASU Financial Instruments Credit Losses       In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Financial Instruments-Credit Losses . This proposed ASU would result in a single model to account for credit losses on financial assets. The
proposal would remove the probable threshold for recognizing credit losses and require an estimate of the contractual cash flows an entity does not expect to collect on financial assets not measured at fair value through the income statement. The
proposal would also change current practice for recognizing other-than-temporary impairment and interest income on debt securities. In addition, the proposal would result in the recognition of an allowance for credit losses for nearly all types of
debt instruments. The proposal would expand the credit quality disclosures to require information about changes in the factors that influence estimates of credit losses and the reasons for those changes. Comments on this proposed ASU are due on
April 30, 2013.   

102     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting Developments    (continued)                 
 
    Proposed ASU Effective Control for Transfers with Forward Agreements to Repurchase Assets and
Accounting for Repurchase Financings       In January 2013, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Effective Control for Transfers with Forward
Agreements to Repurchase Assets and Accounting for Repurchase Financings.  This proposed ASU would require certain repurchase agreements to be accounted for as secured borrowings. For repurchase agreements and similar transactions accounted for
as secured borrowings, an entity would be required to disclose the carrying value of the borrowing disaggregated by the type of collateral pledged. Comments on this proposed ASU are due on March 29, 2013.   
   Proposed ASU Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities    
  In February 2013, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  This proposed
ASU would affect entities that hold financial assets and liabilities and would change the methodology related to recognition, classification, measurement and presentation of financial instruments. The scope of the proposed ASU would exclude
instruments classified in shareholder s equity, share-based arrangements, pension plans, leases, guarantees and derivative instruments accounted under ASC 815. Financial assets would be classified and measured based on the instrument s
cash flow characteristics and an entity s business model for managing the instrument. Financial liabilities would generally be measured initially at their transaction price. The proposal includes three principal classification and measurement
categories: (1) fair value for which all changes in fair value are recognized in net income; (2) fair value with qualifying changes in fair value recognized in other comprehensive income; and (3) amortized cost. This proposed ASU
requires financial assets and liabilities to be presented separately on the balance sheet by measurement category. In addition, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities accounted for under amortized cost would be presented parenthetically
on the balance sheet. Comments on this proposed ASU are due on May 15, 2013.       Adoption of new accounting standards    
  For a discussion of the adoption of new accounting standards, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

IFRS       International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) are a set of standards and interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board. The SEC is currently considering a
potential IFRS adoption process in the United States, which would, in the near term, provide domestic issuers with an alternative accounting method and ultimately could replace U.S. GAAP reporting requirements with IFRS reporting requirements. The
intention of this adoption would be to provide the capital markets community with a single set of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards. The adoption of IFRS for U.S. companies with global operations would allow for streamlined
reporting, allow for easier access to foreign capital markets and investments, and facilitate cross-border acquisitions, ventures or spin-offs.   
  In November 2008, the SEC proposed a  roadmap  for phasing in mandatory IFRS filings by U.S. public companies. The roadmap is conditional on
progress towards milestones that would demonstrate improvements in both the infrastructure of international standard setting and the preparation of the U.S. financial reporting community. In February 2010, the SEC issued a statement confirming their
position that they continue to believe that a single set of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards would benefit U.S. investors. The SEC continues to support the dual goals of improving financial reporting in the United States and
reducing country-by-country disparities in financial reporting. The SEC is developing a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact of IFRS on the U.S. securities market.      In May 2011, the SEC published a staff paper,  Exploring a Possible Method of Incorporation , that presents a possible framework for incorporating IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system.
In the staff paper, the SEC staff elaborates on an approach that combines elements of convergence and endorsement. This approach would establish an endorsement protocol for the FASB to incorporate newly issued or amended IFRS into U.S. GAAP. During
a transition period (e.g., five to seven years), differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP would be potentially eliminated through ongoing FASB standard setting.      In July 2012, the SEC staff released its final report on IFRS. This Final Report will be used by the SEC Commissioners to decide whether and, if so, when and how to incorporate IFRS into the financial
reporting system for U.S. companies. The staff has not   

BNY
Mellon     103   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting Developments    (continued)                 

specifically requested comments on the Final Report. It is not known when the SEC will make a final decision on the adoption of IFRS in the U.S.   
  While the SEC decides whether IFRS will be required to be used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, a number of countries have
mandated the use of IFRS by BNY Mellon s subsidiaries in their statutory reports. Such countries include Belgium, Brazil, the Netherlands, Australia, Hong Kong, Canada and South Korea.       Proposed Update to Internal Controls Integrated Framework       In December 2011, The
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) issued for public comment a proposed update to Internal Control Integrated Framework. The original Framework, issued in 1992, is used by most U.S. public
companies and many others to evaluate and report on the effectiveness of their internal control over external financial reporting.      Since the
original Framework was introduced, business has become increasingly global and complex. Regulatory regimes also have expanded, and additional forms of external reporting are emerging.

The COSO Board has updated the original Framework to make it more relevant to investors and other stakeholders.      The more significant proposed changes to the original Framework include: applying a principles-based approach, clarifying the role of objective-setting in internal control, reflecting the increased
relevance of technology, enhancing governance concepts, expanding the objectives of financial reporting, enhancing consideration of anti-fraud expectations, and considering different business models and organizational structures.   
  In September 2012, COSO released a draft of its Internal Control Over External Financial Reporting ( ICEFR ): Compendium of Approaches and
Examples ( the Compendium ). The Compendium provides guidance on applying COSO s Internal Control -Integrated Framework to external financial reporting. COSO also released a revised version of its Internal Control -Integrated
Framework ( ICIF ) that incorporates changes based on comments received. Comments on the Compendium and the revised ICIF were due on Nov. 20, 2012.      The final document is expected to be issued in the first quarter of 2013.   

104     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Business Continuity                    
 
   We are prepared for events that could damage our physical facilities, cause delay or disruptions to
operational functions, including telecommunications networks, or impair our employees, clients, vendors and counterparties. Key elements of our business continuity strategies are extensive planning and testing, and diversity of business operations,
data centers and telecommunications infrastructure.      We have established multiple geographically diverse locations for our funds transfer and
broker-dealer services operational units, which provide redundant functionality to facilitate uninterrupted operations.      Our securities
clearing, commercial paper, mutual fund accounting and custody, securities lending, master trust, Unit Investment Trust, corporate trust, item processing, wealth management and treasury units have common functionality in multiple sites designed to
facilitate continuance of operations or rapid recovery. In addition, we have recovery positions for over 13,400 employees on a global basis of which over 7,500 are proprietary.      We continue to enhance geographic diversity for business operations by moving additional personnel to growth centers outside of existing major urban centers. We replicate 100% of our critical production
computer data to multiple recovery data centers.      We have an active telecommunications diversity program. All major buildings and data centers
have diverse telecommunications carriers. The data centers have multiple fiber optic rings and have been designed so that there is no single point of failure.      All major buildings have been designed with diverse telecommunications access and connect to at least two geographically dispersed connection points. We have an active program to audit circuits for route
diversity and to test customer back-up connections.      In 2003, the Federal Reserve, OCC and SEC jointly published the Interagency Paper,
 Sound Practices to Strengthen the Resilience of the U.S. Financial System  ( Sound Practices Paper ). The purpose of the document was to define the guidelines for the financial services industry and other interested parties
regarding  best practices  related to business continuity planning. Under these guidelines, we are a key clearing and settlement organization required to meet a higher standard for business continuity.   
  We believe we meet substantially all of the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper. As a core

clearing and settlement organization, we believe that we are at the forefront of the industry in improving business continuity practices.      We are committed to seeing that requirements for business continuity are met not just within our own facilities, but also within those of vendors and service providers whose operation is critical to our
safety and soundness. To that end, we have a Service Provider Management Office whose function is to review new and existing service providers and vendors to see that they meet our standards for business continuity, as well as for information
security, financial stability, and personnel practices, etc.      We have developed a comprehensive plan to prepare for the possibility of a flu
pandemic, which anticipates significant reduced staffing levels and will provide for increased remote working by staff for one or more periods lasting several weeks.      Although we are committed to observing best practices as well as meeting regulatory requirements, geopolitical uncertainties and other external factors will continue to create risk that cannot always be
identified and anticipated.      Due to BNY Mellon s robust business recovery systems and processes, we are not materially impacted by
climate change, nor do we expect material impacts in the near term. We have, and will continue to, implement processes and capital projects to deal with the risks of the changing climate. The company has invested in the development of products and
services that support the markets related to climate change.      In October 2012, several of our facilities in the northeastern U.S. were
impacted by Superstorm Sandy. Our business continuity plans functioned well in the storm and its aftermath.   

BNY
Mellon     105   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    

Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures    
  BNY Mellon has included in this Annual Report certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders  equity. BNY Mellon
believes that the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and the ratio of tangible common shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations are measures of capital strength that provide additional useful information to
investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. The ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets excludes preferred stock, as well as the trust preferred securities, which
will be phased out of Basel I Tier 1 regulatory capital beginning in 2013. Unlike the Basel I Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders  equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations
which are reflected in total shareholders  equity. In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory
requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes
goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon s performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. BNY
Mellon has presented its estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio on a basis that is representative of how it currently understands the Basel III rules. Management views the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio as a key measure in monitoring
BNY Mellon s capital position. Additionally, the presentation of the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio allows investors to compare BNY Mellon s Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio with estimates presented by other companies. See
 Capital  for a reconciliation of total Tier 1 capital   Basel I to total estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity and total risk-weighted assets   Basel I to total estimated Basel III risk-weighted assets.   
  BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such
assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures, which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses), SILO/LILO charges and noncontrolling interests

related to consolidated investment management funds; expense measures which exclude M I expenses, litigation charges, restructuring charges, amortization of intangible assets, support
agreement charges and asset-based taxes; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as the benefit of tax settlements and discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages. Return on equity measures and operating margin
measures, which exclude some or all of these items, are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance
revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon s control. The excluded items in general relate to certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions or where we have incurred charges. M I
expenses primarily relate to the 2007 merger of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation and the Acquisitions in 2010. M I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on
a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon s business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after
such M I expenses have ceased. Future periods will not reflect such M I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M I expenses are excluded. Litigation charges represent accruals for loss contingencies that
are both probable and reasonably estimable, but exclude standard business-related legal fees. Restructuring charges relate to our operational excellence initiatives and migrating positions to global delivery centers. Excluding these charges permits
investors to view expenses on a basis consistent with how management views the business. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon s primary businesses are Investment Management and Investment Services. The
management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon s investment securities portfolio. The investment
securities portfolio is managed within the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon s processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not
generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. Excluding the discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages and the benefit of tax

106     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

settlements permits investors to calculate the tax impact of BNY Mellon s primary businesses.      The presentation of income of consolidated investment management funds, net of net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests related to the consolidation of certain investment management
funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.

In this Annual Report, the net interest margin is presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this
presentation provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.   
  Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.

(a)   
   Income (loss) before taxes divided by total revenue.      
         BNY
Mellon     107   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

(a)   
   In 2008, BNY Mellon incurred an extraordinary loss of $26 million, net of tax, related to the consolidation of a commercial paper conduit.
        The following table presents income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests.

108     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 
   The following table presents the line items in the Investment Management business impacted by the
consolidated investment management funds.       

(a)   
   Assigned a zero percentage risk weighting by the regulators.      
         BNY
Mellon     109   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

The following table presents the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio.  

(a)   
   The estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratios at Dec. 31, 2012 was based on the NPRs and final market risk rule. The estimated Basel III Tier1 common equity
ratio at Dec. 31, 2011 was based on prior Basel III guidance and the proposed market risk rule.      

(b)   
   The NPRs and prior Basel III guidance do not add back to capital the adjustment to other comprehensive income that Basel I makes for pension liabilities and
available-for-sale securities. Also, under the NPRs and prior Basel III guidance, pension assets recorded on the balance sheet and adjustments related to equity method investments are a deduction from capital.      

(c)   
   Primary differences between risk-weighted assets determined under Basel I compared with the NPRs and prior Basel III guidance include: the determination of credit
risk under Basel I uses predetermined risk weights and asset classes and relies in part on the use of external credit ratings, while the NPRs use, in addition to the broader range of predetermined risk weights and asset classes, certain alternatives
to external credit ratings. Securitization exposure receives a higher risk-weighting under the NPRs and prior Basel III guidance than Basel I; also, the NPRs and prior Basel III guidance include additional adjustments for operational risk, market
risk, counterparty credit risk and equity exposures.      

(d)   
   Calculated on an Advanced Approaches basis, as amended by Basel III.      
      
  110     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 
      Rate/volume analysis    

(a)   
   Changes which are solely due to balance changes or rate changes are allocated to such categories on the basis of the respective percentage changes in average
balances and average rates. Changes in interest revenue or interest expense arising from the combination of rate and volume variances are allocated proportionately to rate and volume based on their relative absolute magnitudes.
     
         BNY
Mellon     111   

Table of Contents  

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    

(b)   
   At period end.      
      
  112     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

      Forward-looking Statements    

Some statements in this document are forward-looking. These include all statements about the usefulness of
Non-GAAP measures; the future results of BNY Mellon and our long-term goals and strategies, including deploying capital to accelerate the long-term growth of our businesses and achieving superior total returns to shareholders by generating first
quartile earnings per share growth relative to a group of peer companies; and key components of our strategy. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to expectations regarding: Basel III and our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity
ratio; the streamlining and enhancing of our data collection processes and systems relating to AUC/A and the correction and enhancement of our disclosure policies and procedures; the impact and timing of the Newton transaction; updating our capital
targets; an after-tax charge during the first quarter of 2013 and the impact of this charge on our well-capitalized status and Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio; our decision to appeal the U.S. Tax Court s ruling; the central securities
depository; the timing of the Federal Reserve s notice of objection or non-objection regarding our capital plan and the announcement of our 2013 capital plan; the impact of the continued net run-off of structured debt securitizations on our
total annual revenue; our foreign exchange revenue; elevated levels of legal and litigation costs; our effective tax rate; the seasonality impact on our business; estimations of market value impact on fee revenue and earnings per share; our
tri-party repo business; the impact on our foreign assets of changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors; the effect of credit ratings on allowances; the possible divergence of actual prices
and valuations from results predicted by models; the impact of worsening delinquencies, default rates and loss severity assumptions on impairment losses in future periods; the impact that a goodwill impairment charge would have on our financial
condition, results of operations, regulatory capital ratios and debt issuance; the impact of money market fee waivers or changes in levels of assets under management on the fair value of Asset Management; estimates of net pension expense; our
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets; the impact of significant changes in ratings classifications for our investment securities portfolio; assumptions with respect to residential mortgage-backed securities; private equity commitments;
goals with respect to our commercial portfolio; statements on our credit strategies; our anticipated quarterly provision for credit losses in 2013; our liquidity cushion, liquidity ratios, liquidity asset buffer and potential uses of

liquidity; a reduction in our Investment Services businesses; access to capital markets and our shelf registration statements; the impact of a change in rating agencies  assumptions on
ratings of the Parent, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.; capital, including anticipated redemptions or other actions with regard to outstanding securities; distributions on the PCS and dividends on preferred stock; statements
regarding the capitalization status of BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries; our repurchase of common stock; balance sheet size and client deposit levels; assumptions with respect to the effects of changes in risk-weighted assets/quarterly average
assets on capital ratios; our foreign exchange and other trading counterparty risk rating profile; estimations and assumptions on net interest revenue and net interest rate sensitivities; our earnings simulation model; impact of certain events on
the growth or contraction of deposits, our assumptions about depositor behavior, our balance sheet and net interest revenue; how economic value of equity and tangible common equity would change in response to changes in interest rates; our goal of
having a superior debt rating among our peers; the impact to us of operational risk events; our efforts to limit on- and off- balance sheet credit risk; goals with respect to liquidity risk; our expectations to continue to refine the methodologies
used to estimate our economic capital requirements; the timing and effects of pending and proposed legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act; the Federal Reserve s proposed rules regarding enhanced prudential standards and early
remediation requirements; regulatory stress-testing requirements; the Federal Reserve s rules regarding its comprehensive capital analysis and review; the NPRs, Basel II and Basel III requirements and the impact on our capital ratios; the
impact of being identified as a G-SIB or D-SIB; our expectations and statements regarding the Volcker rule; money market fund reforms; tri-party repo reform; the Federal Reserve s and FDIC s implementation of its resolution planning rules;
the impact of proposed expansions of the definition of a fiduciary; the impact of CRD IV and other European Directives; the timing and impact of adoption of recently issued and proposed accounting standards; the implementation of IFRS; compliance
with the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper; statements with respect to our business continuity plans; expectations regarding climate change; the effect of geopolitical factors and other external factors on risk; BNY Mellon s anticipated
actions with respect to legal or regulatory proceedings; future litigation costs, the expected outcome and the impact of judgments

BNY
Mellon     113   

Table of Contents  

Forward-looking Statements    (continued)                 

and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings and BNY Mellon s expectations with respect to litigation accruals.   
  In this report, any other report, any press release or any written or oral statement that BNY Mellon or its executives may make, words, such as
 estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident,   target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe, 
 plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words of similar meaning, signify
forward-looking statements.      Forward-looking statements, including discussions and projections of future results of operations and discussions
of future plans contained in the MD A, are based on management s current expectations and assumptions that involve risk and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important

factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s control), including adverse changes in market conditions, and the timing of such changes, and the actions that management could take in
response to these changes. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed in the  Risk Factors  section of this Annual Report. Investors should consider
all risks in this Annual Report and any subsequent reports filed with the SEC by BNY Mellon pursuant to the Exchange Act.      All forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect
the occurrence of unanticipated events. The contents of BNY Mellon s website or any other websites referenced herein are not part of this report.

114     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    

Accumulated Benefit Obligation ( ABO )  The actuarial present value of benefits
(vested and non-vested) attributed to employee services rendered.       Alt-A securities  A mortgage risk categorization that falls
between prime and subprime. Borrowers behind these mortgages will typically have clean credit histories but the mortgage itself will generally have issues that increase its risk profile.       Alternative investments  Usually refers to investments in hedge funds, leveraged loans, subordinated and distressed debt, real estate and foreign currency overlay. Examples of alternative
investment strategies are: long-short equity, event-driven, statistical arbitrage, fixed income arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, short bias, global macro and equity market neutral.       APAC  Asia-Pacific region.       Asset-backed commercial paper
( ABCP )  A short-term instrument issued by a financial institution that is collateralized by other assets.       Assets under
custody and/or administration ( AUC/A )  Assets that we hold directly or indirectly on behalf of clients under a safekeeping or custody arrangement or for which we provide administrative services for clients. These assets are not
on our balance sheet. The following types of assets under administration are not and historically have not been included in AUC/A: performance and risk analytics, transfer agency and asset aggregation services. To the extent that we provide more
than one AUC/A service for a client s assets, the value of the asset is only counted once in the total amount of AUC/A.   
   ASC  Accounting Standards Codification.       Assets Under Management ( AUM )  Includes assets beneficially owned by our clients or customers which we hold in various capacities that are either actively or passively managed, as
well as the value of hedges supporting customer liabilities. These assets and liabilities are not on our balance sheet.       bps  basis
points.       CAMELS  An international bank-rating system where bank supervisory authorities rate institutions according to six factors.
The six factors are Capital adequacy, Asset quality, Management quality, Earnings, Liquidity and Sensitivity to Market Risk.

Central Securities Depository ( CSD )  Has three principal functions; the issuance of
financial instruments, settlement of financial instrument transactions, and safekeeping of financial instruments.       Collateral
management  A comprehensive program designed to simplify collateralization and expedite securities transfers for buyers and sellers.   
   Collateralized Debt Obligations ( CDOs )  A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product constructed from a portfolio
of fixed-income assets.       Collateralized loan obligation ( CLO )  A debt security backed by a pool of commercial loans.
      Collective trust fund  An investment fund formed from the pooling of investments by investors.   
   Credit derivatives  Contractual agreements that provide insurance against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. Such events
include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations when due.       Credit risk  The risk of loss due to borrower or
counterparty default.       Credit valuation adjustment ( CVA )  The market value of counterparty credit risk on OTC
derivative transactions.       Currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency.
      Daily average revenue trades ( DARTS )  Represents the number of trades from which an entity can expect to generate
revenue through fees or commissions on a given day.       Debit valuation adjustment ( DVA )  The market value of our credit
risk on OTC derivative transactions.       Depositary Receipts ( DR )  A negotiable security that generally represents a
non-U.S. company s publicly traded equity.       Derivative  A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices.

BNY
Mellon     115   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    (continued)                 
 
    Discontinued operations  The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by ASC
205, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management s intention to sell the component.       Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act )  Regulatory reform legislation signed into law on July 21, 2010. This law broadly affects the
financial services industry and contains numerous provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector.   
   Double leverage  The situation that exists when a holding company s equity investments in wholly owned subsidiaries (including goodwill
and intangibles) exceed its equity capital. Double leverage is created when a bank holding company issues debt and downstreams the proceeds to a subsidiary as an equity investment.       Earnings allocated to participating securities  Amount of undistributed earnings, after payment of taxes, preferred stock dividends and the required adjustment for common stock dividends
declared, that is allocated to securities that are eligible to receive a portion of the Company s earnings.       Economic
Capital  The amount of capital required to absorb potential losses and reflects the probability of remaining solvent over a one-year time horizon.       Economic Value of Equity ( EVE )  An aggregation of discounted future cash flows of assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon.   
   EMEA  Europe, the Middle East and Africa.       Eurozone  An economic and monetary union of 17 European Union member states that have adopted the euro ( ) as their common currency. The Eurozone currently includes Germany, France,
Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria, Finland, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Estonia, Cyprus, Malta, Slovenia and Slovakia.   
   eXtensible Business Reporting Language ( XBRL )  A language for the electronic communication of business and financial data.
      FASB  Financial Accounting Standards Board.       FDIC  Federal Deposit Issuance Corporation.

Fiduciary risk  The risk arising from our role as trustee, executor, investment agent or
guardian in accordance with governing documents, prudent person principles and applicable laws, rules and regulations.       Foreign currency
options  Similar to interest rate options except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also, see interest rate options in this glossary.       Foreign currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future dates.       Foreign exchange contracts  Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms.   
   Forward rate agreements  Contracts to exchange payments on a specified future date, based on a market change in interest rates from trade date
to contract settlement date.       Fully Taxable Equivalent ( FTE )  Basis for comparison of yields on assets having ordinary
taxability with assets for which special tax exemptions apply. The FTE adjustment reflects an increase in the interest yield or return on a tax-exempt asset to a level that would be comparable had the asset been fully taxable.   
   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP )  Accounting rules and conventions defining acceptable practices in preparing
financial statements in the U.S. The FASB is the primary source of accounting rules.       Grantor Trust  A legal, passive entity
through which pass-through securities are sold to investors.       Hedge fund  A fund which is allowed to use diverse strategies that
are unavailable to mutual funds, including selling short, leverage, program trading, swaps, arbitrage and derivatives.   
   Impairment  When an asset s market value is less than its carrying value.       Interest rate options, including caps and floors  Contracts to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a premium when the contract is initiated. As a writer of interest rate
options, we receive a premium in exchange for bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely, as a purchaser of an option, we pay a premium for the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a financial instrument or
currency at predetermined terms in the future.   

116     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    (continued)                 
 
    Interest rate sensitivity  The exposure of net interest income to interest rate movements.
      Interest rate swaps  Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency are exchanged over a prescribed
period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities.   
   Investment grade  Represents Moody s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard   Poor s, Fitch or DBRS
long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings. Instruments that fall below these levels are considered to be non-investment grade.       Joint venture  A company or entity owned and operated by a group of companies for a specific business purpose, no one of which has a majority interest.   
   Leverage ratio (Basel I guideline)  Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, as defined by the regulators.   
   Liquidity risk  The risk of being unable to fund our portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to
liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price.       Litigation risk  Arises when in the ordinary course of business, we
are named as defendants or made parties to legal actions.       Loans for purchasing or carrying securities  Loans primarily to brokers
and dealers in securities.       Market risk  The potential loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by movements in
market variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices.       Master netting
agreement  An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract.
      Mortgage-Backed Security ( MBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by the principal and interest
payments of a set of mortgage loans.       N/A  Not applicable.

N/M  Not meaningful.       Net interest margin  The result of dividing net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets.       Nostro account  An account held in a foreign country by a domestic bank, denominated in the currency of that country. Nostro accounts are used to facilitate settlement of foreign exchange and
currency trading transactions.       Notice of proposed rulemaking ( NPR )  A public notice issued by law when one of the
independent agencies of the United States government wishes to add, remove, or change a rule or regulation as part of the rulemaking process.   
   Operating leverage  The rate of increase in revenue to the rate of increase in expenses.   
   Operational risk  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or external events.   
   Other than temporary impairment ( OTTI )  An impairment charge taken on a security whose fair value has fallen below the carrying
value on the balance sheet and its value is not expected to recover through the holding period of the security.       Performance
fees  Fees received by an investment advisor based upon the fund s performance for the period relative to various predetermined benchmarks.       Prime securities  A classification of securities collateralized by loans to borrowers who have a high-value and/or a good credit history.   
   Private equity/venture capital  Investment in start-up companies or those in the early processes of developing products and services with
perceived, long-term growth potential.       Pre-tax operating margin  Income before taxes for a period divided by total revenue for
that period.       Projected Benefit Obligation ( PBO )  The actuarial present value of all benefits accrued on employee
service rendered prior to the calculation date, including allowance for future salary increases if the pension benefit is based on future compensation levels.       Qui tam action  An action brought under a statute that allows a private person to sue for a recovery, part of which the government or some specified public institution will receive.

BNY
Mellon     117   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    (continued)                 
 
    Rating Agency  An independent agency that assesses the credit quality and likelihood of default
of an issue or issuer and assigns a rating to that issue or issuer.       Real Estate Investment Trust ( REIT )  An
investor-owned corporation, trust or association that sells shares to investors and invests in income-producing property.       Repurchase
Agreement ( Repo )  An instrument used to raise short term funds whereby securities are sold with an agreement for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date.       Reputational risk  Arises when events or actions that negatively impact our reputation lead to a loss of existing clients and could make it more challenging to acquire new business.   
   Residential Mortgage-Backed Security ( RMBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by principal and interest
payments of a set of residential mortgage loans.       Restructuring charges  Typically result from the consolidation and/or relocation
of operations.       Return on assets  Income divided by average assets.       Return on common equity  Income divided by average common shareholders  equity.   
   Return on tangible common equity  Income, excluding amortization of intangible assets, divided by average tangible common shareholders 
equity.       Securities lending transaction  A fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the
security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days.   
   Subcustodian  A local provider (e.g., a bank) contracted to provide specific custodial related services in a selected country or geographic
area.       Subprime securities  A classification of securities collateralized by loans to borrowers who have a tarnished or limited
credit history.       Tangible common shareholders  equity  Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred
tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill.

Tier 1 and total capital (Basel I guidelines)  Includes common shareholders  equity
(excluding certain components of comprehensive income), preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities, less goodwill and certain intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets
and tax deductible goodwill and a deduction for certain non-financial equity investments and disallowed deferred tax assets. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital, qualifying unrealized equity securities gains, qualifying subordinated debt and the
allowance for credit losses.       Unfunded commitments  Legally binding agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a
specified future date.       Value-at-Risk ( VaR )  A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss at a specified confidence
level from adverse market movements in an ordinary market environment.       Variable Interest Entity ( VIE )  An entity that:
(1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the
entity s operations; and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity s losses or return.

118     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

Management of BNY Mellon is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for BNY Mellon, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.      BNY Mellon s management,
including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has assessed the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, management used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based upon

such assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2012, BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.   
  KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited BNY Mellon s 2012 financial statements included in this Annual Report under
 Financial Statements and Notes,  has issued a report with respect to the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 120.

BNY
Mellon     119   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
         
   The Board of Directors and Shareholders      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation s ( BNY Mellon ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). BNY Mellon s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, BNY Mellon
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of BNY Mellon as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2012, and our report dated February 28, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.       
  /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York   
  February 28, 2013   
      
  120     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    

Consolidated Income Statement   

BNY
Mellon     121   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Income Statement    (continued)   

(a)   
   Represents stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and participating securities outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted average
common shares because their effect would be anti-dilutive.      

(b)   
   Basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method are determined on the net income applicable to common shareholders of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation reported on the income statement less earnings allocated to participating securities, and the change in the excess of redeemable value over the fair value of noncontrolling interests.      

(c)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      
  122     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statement    

(b)   
   Includes a net reclassification adjustment of $14 million to retained earnings from other comprehensive income in 2010.      
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         BNY
Mellon     123   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Balance Sheet   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      
  124     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
    
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         BNY
Mellon     125   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

126     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

BNY
Mellon     127   
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    (continued)       

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                    

Note 1 Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies    
    Basis of Presentation    
  The accounting and financial reporting policies of BNY Mellon, a global financial services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ) and prevailing industry practices.      In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair
presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the annual periods have been made. Certain other immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior years to place them on a basis comparable with current period
presentation.       Use of estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates based upon assumptions about future economic and market conditions which affect reported amounts
and related disclosures in our financial statements. Although our current estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in
those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Amounts subject to estimates are items such as the allowance for loan losses and lending-related commitments, the fair value of financial instruments
and other-than-temporary impairments, goodwill and intangible assets and pension accounting. Among other effects, such changes in estimates could result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill and intangible assets and establishment
of allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments as well as changes in pension and post-retirement expense.       Equity method
investments       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. Equity investments of less
than a majority but at least 20% ownership are accounted for by the equity method and classified as other assets. Earnings on these investments are reflected in fee and other revenue as investment services fees or investment and other

income, as appropriate, in the period earned. Our most significant equity method investments are:       
     Acquired businesses       The income statement and balance sheet include results of acquired businesses accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting pursuant to ASC 805,  Business Combinations  and equity
investments from the dates of acquisition. For acquisitions completed prior to Jan. 1, 2009, we record the fair value of any contingent payments as an additional cost of the equity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable. For
acquisitions completed after Jan. 1, 2009, contingent purchase consideration was measured at its fair value and recorded on the purchase date. Any subsequent changes in the fair value of a contingent consideration liability will be recorded through
the income statement.       Parent financial statements       The Parent financial statements in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Parent; those of a wholly-owned financing subsidiary that functions as a financing
entity for BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries; and MIPA, LLC, a single-member limited liability company, created to hold and administer corporate-owned life insurance. Financial data for the Parent, the financing subsidiary and the single-member
limited liability company are combined for financial reporting purposes because of the limited function of these entities and the unconditional guarantee by BNY Mellon of their obligations.       Nature of operations       BNY Mellon is a global leader in providing a broad range of
financial products and services in domestic and international markets. Through our two principal businesses, Investment Management and Investment Services, we serve the following major classes of customers institutions, corporations, and high
net   

128     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

worth individuals. For institutions and corporations, we provide the following services:       

investment management;      

trust and custody;      

foreign exchange;      

fund administration;      

securities lending;      

depositary receipts;      

corporate trust;      

global payment/cash management;      

banking services; and      

clearing services.         For
individuals, we provide mutual funds, separate accounts, wealth management and private banking services. BNY Mellon s investment management businesses provide investment products in many asset classes and investment styles on a global basis.
      Variable interest entities    
  Accounting guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities ( VIEs ) is included in ASC 810  Consolidation , ASU 2009-17
 Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities , and ASU 2010-10  Amendments for Certain Investment Funds,  which defers ASU 2009-17 for certain asset managers  interests in
entities that apply the specialized accounting guidance for investment companies or that have the attributes of investment companies and for interests in money market funds.      VIEs are defined as certain entities in which the equity investors:       

do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support; or

lack one or more of the following characteristics of a controlling financial interest:      

The power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic
performance (ASU 2009-17 model).      

The direct or indirect ability to make decisions about the entity s activities through voting rights or similar rights (ASC 810 model).

The obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity.      

The right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity.

We consider the underlying facts and circumstances of individual transactions when assessing whether or not
an entity is a potential VIE. BNY Mellon is required to consolidate a VIE if BNY Mellon is determined to be the primary beneficiary.      As a
result of ASU 2010-10, BNY Mellon continues to apply ASC 810 to its mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, collective investment funds and real estate investment trusts. If these entities are determined to be VIEs, primary beneficiary
calculations are prepared in accordance with ASC 810 to determine whether or not BNY Mellon is the primary beneficiary and required to consolidate the VIE. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the VIE s
expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns or both.      BNY Mellon has two securitizations and several CLOs, which are
assessed for consolidation in accordance with ASU 2009-17. The primary beneficiary of these VIE s is the party that has both: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact that entity s economic
performance, and (2) the obligation to absorb losses, or the right to receive benefits, from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.       Voting interest entities       If BNY Mellon can exert control over the financial and operating
policies of an investee, which generally can occur if there is a 50% or more voting interest or if partners or members of an investee do not have certain substantive rights, BNY Mellon consolidates the investee.   
  Investees structured as limited partnerships or limited liability companies for which BNY Mellon is either the general partner or managing member are
presumed to be controlled by BNY Mellon. In accordance with ASC 810-20  Control of Partnerships and Similar Entities , we review the rights of the limited partners and members to determine whether that presumption can be overcome. The
presumption of control is overcome when the limited partners or managing members have the ability to dissolve the entity, can remove BNY Mellon, as the general partner or managing member without cause based on a simple majority vote of unaffiliated
limited partners or members or have other substantive participating rights. If the presumption of control is not overcome, the entity is consolidated.

BNY
Mellon     129   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Trading account securities, available-for-sale securities, and held-to-maturity securities
      Securities are accounted for under ASC 320  Investments Debt and Equity Securities.  Securities are generally classified in the
trading, available-for-sale investment or the held-to-maturity investment securities portfolios when they are purchased. Securities are classified as trading securities when our intention is to resell. Securities are classified as available-for-sale
securities when we intend to hold the securities for an indefinite period of time or when the securities may be used for tactical asset/liability purposes and may be sold from time to time to effectively manage interest rate exposure, prepayment
risk and liquidity needs. Securities are classified as held-to-maturity securities when we intend to hold them until maturity.      Trading
securities are stated at fair value. Trading revenue includes both realized and unrealized gains and losses. The liability incurred on short-sale transactions, representing the obligation to deliver securities, is included in trading liabilities at
fair value.      Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value. The difference between fair value and amortized cost representing
unrealized gains or losses on assets classified as available-for-sale, are recorded net of tax as an addition to or deduction from other comprehensive income ( OCI ), unless a security is deemed to have an other-than-temporary impairment
( OTTI ). Gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are reported in the income statement. The cost of debt and equity securities sold is determined on a specific identification and average cost method, respectively.
Held-to-maturity securities are stated at cost.      Income on investment securities purchased is adjusted for amortization of premium and
accretion of discount on a level yield basis.      We routinely conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each investment security to
determine whether OTTI has occurred. We examine various factors when determining whether an impairment, representing the fair value of a security being below its amortized cost, is other than temporary. The following are examples of factors that BNY
Mellon considers:       

The length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis;

Whether management has an intent to sell the security;      

Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment;      

Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area;

Whether a debt security has been downgraded by a rating agency;      

Whether a debt security exhibits cash flow deterioration; and      

For each non-agency RMBS, we compare the remaining credit enhancement that protects the individual security from losses against the projected losses of
principal and/or interest expected to come from the underlying mortgage collateral, to determine whether such credit losses might directly impact the relevant security.         The determination of whether a credit loss exists is based on best estimates of the present value of cash flows to be collected from the debt security. Generally, cash flows are discounted at the
effective interest rate implicit in the debt security at the time of acquisition. For debt securities that are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets and are not high credit quality, ASC 325 provides that cash flows be discounted at
the current yield used to accrete the beneficial interest.      The credit component of an OTTI of a debt security is recognized in earnings and
the non-credit component is recognized in OCI when we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that BNY Mellon will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its cost basis.   
  For held-to-maturity debt securities, the amount of OTTI recorded in OCI for the non-credit portion of a previous OTTI is amortized prospectively, as an
increase to the carrying amount of the security, over the remaining life of the security on the basis of the timing of future estimated cash flows of the securities. In order not to be required to recognize the non-credit component of an OTTI in
earnings, management is required to assert that it does not have the intent to sell the security and that it is more likely than not it will not have to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis.   
  If we intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that BNY Mellon will be required to sell the security prior to recovery of its cost
basis, the non-credit component of OTTI is recognized in earnings   

130     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

and subsequently accreted to interest income on an effective yield basis over the life of the security.      The accounting policies for the determination of the fair value of financial instruments and OTTI have been identified as  critical accounting estimates  as they require us to make numerous
assumptions based on available market data. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for these disclosures.       Loans and
leases       Loans are reported net of any unearned discount. Loan origination and upfront commitment fees, as well as certain direct loan
origination and commitment costs, are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the lives of the related loans. Deferred fees and costs are netted against outstanding loan balances. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or
market value.      Unearned revenue on direct financing leases is accreted over the lives of the leases in decreasing amounts to provide a
constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. Revenue on leveraged leases is recognized on a basis to achieve a constant yield on the outstanding investment in the lease, net of the related deferred tax liability, in the years in
which the net investment is positive. Gains and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are included in investment and other income. Considering the nature of these leases and the number of significant assumptions, there is risk
associated with the income recognition on these leases should any of the assumptions change materially in future periods.       Nonperforming
assets       Commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, or when there is
reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected.      When a first lien residential mortgage loan reaches 90 days delinquent, it is
subject to an impairment test and may be placed on nonaccrual status. At 180 days delinquent, the loan is subject to further impairment testing. The loan will remain on accrual status if the realizable value of the collateral exceeds the unpaid
principal balance plus accrued interest. If the loan is impaired, a charge-off is taken and the loan is placed on nonaccrual status. At 270 days delinquent, all first lien mortgages are placed on nonaccrual status. Second lien mortgages are
automatically placed on nonaccrual status when they reach 90 days delinquent.

When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against
current period interest revenue. Interest receipts on nonaccrual and impaired loans are recognized as interest revenue or are applied to principal when we believe the ultimate collectability of principal is in doubt. Nonaccrual loans generally are
restored to an accrual basis when principal and interest become current.      A loan is considered to be impaired, as defined by ASC 310
 Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan , when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all principal and interest amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. An impairment allowance on loans $1
million or greater is required to be measured based upon the loan s market price, the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s initial effective interest rate, or at fair value of the collateral if the loan is
collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded value of the loan, an impairment allowance is established by a provision for credit loss. Impairment allowances are not needed when the recorded investment in an impaired loan is
less than the loan valuation.       Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments    
  The allowance for loan losses, shown as a valuation allowance to loans, and the allowance for lending-related commitments recorded in other liabilities
are referred to as BNY Mellon s allowance for credit losses. The accounting policy for the determination of the adequacy of the allowances has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous
complex and subjective estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.      The allowance for loan losses is
maintained to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date based on our judgment. The allowance determination methodology is designed to provide procedural discipline in assessing the appropriateness of the allowance.
Credit losses are charged against the allowance. Recoveries are added to the allowance.      The methodology for determining the allowance for
lending-related commitments considers the same factors as the allowance for loan losses, as well as an estimate of the probability of drawdown. We utilize a quantitative methodology and qualitative framework for determining the allowance for loan
losses and the   

BNY
Mellon     131   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

allowance for lending-related commitments. Within this qualitative framework, management applies judgment when assessing internal risk factors and environmental factors to compute an additional
allowance for each component of the loan portfolio.      The three elements of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related
commitments include the qualitative allowance framework. The three elements are:       

an allowance for impaired credits of $1 million or greater;      

an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits; and      

an allowance for residential mortgage loans.         Our lending is primarily to institutional customers. As a result, our loans are generally larger than $1 million. Therefore, the first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all
impaired loans of $1 million. The allowance is measured by the difference between the recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value. Impaired value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the borrower, the
market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.      The second element, higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits, is based
on our probable loss model. All borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings. The probable loss inherent in each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and maturity. The loss given
default incorporates a recovery expectation. The borrower s probability of default is derived from the associated credit rating. Borrower ratings are reviewed at least annually and are periodically mapped to third-party databases, including
rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity. Higher risk-rated credits are reviewed quarterly. All loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a credit rating.   
  The third element, the allowance for residential mortgage loans, is determined by segregating six mortgage pools into delinquency periods ranging from
current through foreclosure. Each of these delinquency periods is assigned a probability of default. A specific loss given default is assigned for each mortgage pool. In 2012, BNY Mellon began assigning all residential mortgage pools, except home
equity lines of credit, a probability of default and loss given default based on five years of default and loss

data derived from our residential mortgage portfolio. Prior to 2012, estimates of probability of default and loss given default factors were based on a combination of external data from
third-party databases and internal data. The decision to change was triggered when five years of historical data became available in 2012. The use of internal historical data provides a better estimate of the allowance, given that it is based on
actual default and loss experience on our residential mortgage portfolio. For each pool, the inherent loss is calculated using the above factors. The resulting probable loss factor (the probability of default multiplied by the loss given default) is
applied against the loan balance to determine the allowance held for each pool. For home equity lines of credit, probability of default and loss given default are based on external data from third party databases due to the small size of the
portfolio and insufficient internal data.      The qualitative framework is used to determine an additional allowance for each portfolio based on
the factors below:      Internal risk factors:       

Nonperforming loans to total non-margin loans;      

Criticized assets to total loans and lending-related commitments;      

Ratings volatility;      

Borrower concentration; and      

Significant concentration in high-risk industries.         Environmental risk factors:       

U.S. noninvestment grade default rate;      

Unemployment rate; and      

Change in real GDP.         The
objective of the qualitative framework is to capture incurred losses that may not have been fully captured in the quantitative reserve which is based primarily on historical data. Management determines the qualitative allowance each period based on
judgment informed by consideration of internal and external risk factors. Once determined in the aggregate, our qualitative allowance is then allocated to each of our loan classes based on the respective classes  quantitative allowance balances
with the allocations adjusted, when necessary, for class specific risk factors.      For each risk factor, we calculate the minimum and maximum
values, and percentiles in-between, to evaluate the distribution of our historical experience.

132     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The distribution of historical experience is compared to the risk factor s current quarter observed experience to assess the current risk inherent in the portfolio and overall
direction/trend of a risk factor relative to our historical experience.      Based on this analysis, we assign a risk level- no impact, low,
moderate, high and elevated to each risk factor for the current quarter. Management assesses the impact of each risk factor to determine an aggregate risk level. We do not quantify the impact of any particular risk factor. Management s
assessment of the risk factors, as well as the trend in the quantitative allowance, supports management s judgment for the overall required qualitative allowance. A smaller qualitative allowance may be required when our quantitative allowance
has reflected incurred losses associated with the aggregate risk level. A greater qualitative allowance may be required if our quantitative allowance does not yet reflect the incurred losses associated with the aggregate risk level.   
  The allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses
regardless of the nature of the loss.       Premises and equipment       Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the
owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement. For owned and capitalized assets, estimated useful lives range from two to 40 years.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized to operating expense over their identified useful lives.       Software       BNY Mellon capitalizes costs relating to acquired software and internal-use
software development projects that provide new or significantly improved functionality. We capitalize projects that are expected to result in longer-term operational benefits, such as replacement systems or new applications that result in
significantly increased operational efficiencies or functionality. All other costs incurred in connection

with an internal-use software project are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software is recorded in other assets.       Identified intangible assets and goodwill       Identified intangible assets with estimable
lives are amortized in a pattern consistent with the assets  identifiable cash flows or using a straight-line method over their remaining estimated benefit periods if the pattern of cash flows is not estimable. Intangible assets with estimable
lives are reviewed for possible impairment when events or changed circumstances may affect the underlying basis of the asset. Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are assessed annually for impairment, or more often
if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not they may be impaired. The accounting policy for valuing and impairment testing of identified intangible assets and goodwill has been identified as a  critical accounting
estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to goodwill and intangible assets.   
   Seed capital       Seed capital investments
are classified as other assets. Unrealized gains and losses on seed capital investments are recorded in investment and other income.   
   Noncontrolling interests    
  Noncontrolling interests included in permanent equity are adjusted for the income or (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest holders and any
distributions to those shareholders. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported as temporary equity. In accordance with ASC 480,  Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity , BNY Mellon recognizes changes in the redemption value of the
redeemable noncontrolling interests as they occur and adjusts the carrying value to be equal to the redemption value.       Fee revenue
      We record investment services fees, investment management fees, foreign exchange and other trading revenue, financing-related fees,
distribution and servicing, and other revenue when the services are provided and earned based on contractual terms, when amounts are determined and collectibility is reasonably assured.

BNY
Mellon     133   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Additionally, we recognize revenue from non-refundable, upfront implementation fees under outsourcing
contracts using a straight-line method, commencing in the period the ongoing services are performed through the expected term of the contractual relationship. Incremental direct set-up costs of implementation, up to the related implementation fee or
minimum fee revenue amount, are deferred and amortized over the same period that the related implementation fees are recognized. If a client terminates an outsourcing contract prematurely, the unamortized deferred incremental direct set-up costs and
the unamortized deferred up-front implementation fees related to that contract are recognized in the period the contract is terminated.   
  Performance fees are recognized in the period in which the performance fees are earned and become determinable. Performance fees are generally calculated
as a percentage of the applicable portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance. When a portfolio underperforms its benchmark or fails to generate positive performance, subsequent years 
performance must generally exceed this shortfall prior to fees being earned. Amounts billable in subsequent years and which are subject to a clawback if performance thresholds in those years are not met, are not recognized since the fees are
potentially uncollectible. These fees are recognized when it is determined that they will be collected. When a multi-year performance contract provides that fees earned are billed ratably over the performance period, only the portion of the fees
earned that are non-refundable are recognized.       Net interest revenue       Revenue on interest-earning assets and expense on interest-bearing liabilities is recognized based on the effective yield of the related financial instrument.   
   Foreign currency translation       Assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Transaction gains and losses are included in the income statement. Translation gains and losses on investments in
foreign entities with functional currencies that are not the U.S. dollar are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive income (loss). Revenue and expense transactions are translated at the applicable daily rate or
the weighted average monthly exchange rate when applying the daily rate is not practical.

Pension       The measurement date for BNY Mellon s pension plans is Dec. 31. Plan assets are determined based on fair value generally representing observable market prices. The projected benefit obligation is
determined based on the present value of projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on the yield curves of high-quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace. The net periodic pension
expense or credit includes service costs, interest costs based on an assumed discount rate, an expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of prior years  actuarial gains and losses.
     Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments, gains or losses related to changes in the amount of the projected benefit
obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from the assumed rate of return, changes in the discount rate or other assumptions. To the extent an actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit
obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, the excess is recognized over the future service periods of active employees.      Our
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each applicable asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the expected allocation for each asset class and are based on forecasts for prospective returns in
the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.   
  The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on the fair value of plan assets adjusted for the difference
between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The difference between actual experience and expected returns on plan assets is included as an adjustment in the market-related value over a 5-year period.   
  BNY Mellon s accounting policy regarding pensions has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires management to
make numerous complex and subjective assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain. See Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to pensions.

134     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Severance       BNY Mellon provides separation benefits for U.S.-based employees through The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan. These benefits are provided to eligible employees
separated from their jobs for business reasons not related to individual performance. Basic separation benefits are generally based on the employee s years of continuous benefited service. Severance for employees based outside of the U.S. is
determined in accordance with local agreements and legal requirements. Severance expense is recorded when management commits to an action that will result in separation and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.   
   Income taxes       We record current tax
liabilities or assets through charges or credits to the current tax provision for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. A tax position that fails to
meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as income tax
expense.       Derivative financial instruments       Derivative contracts, such as futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading activities are recorded at fair value. Gains and
losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in fee and other revenue. Unrealized gains are recognized as trading assets and unrealized losses are recognized as trading liabilities, after taking into consideration master netting
agreements.      We enter into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes primarily as part of our asset/liability
management ( ALM ) process. These derivatives are designated as either fair value or cash

flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities when we enter into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses associated with fair value hedges are recorded in income as well as any change in the
value of the related hedged item associated with the designated risks being hedged. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI, until reclassified into earnings to meet the risks being hedged. Foreign currency transaction gains and
losses related to a hedged net investment in a foreign operation, net of their tax effect, are recorded with cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments within OCI.      We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.   
  We formally assess, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective and whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of our hedges is assessed to determine if we can expect the hedge to be highly
effective over the life of the transaction and to determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis.      Recognizing that
changes in the value of derivatives used for hedging or the value of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, we have processes in place that are designed to identify and evaluate such changes when they occur. Quarterly, we perform
a quantitative effectiveness assessment and record any ineffectiveness in current earnings.      We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively
when we determine that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative expires, is sold, or management discontinues the derivative s hedge designation. Subsequent gains and losses on these derivatives are included in foreign
exchange and other trading revenue. For discontinued fair value hedges, the accumulated gain or loss on the hedged item is amortized on a yield basis over the remaining life of the hedged item. Accumulated gains and losses, net of tax effect, from
discontinued cash flow hedges are reclassified from OCI and recognized in current earnings in foreign exchange and other trading revenue upon receipt of the hedged cash flow.      The accounting policy for the determination of the fair value of derivative financial instruments has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it

BNY
Mellon     135   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

requires us to make numerous assumptions based on the available market data. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to derivative
financial instruments.       Statement of cash flows       We have defined cash as cash and due from banks. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in the same category as the items hedged.       Stock options       Compensation expense relating to all share-based payments is recognized in
the income statement, on a straight-line basis, over the applicable vesting period.      Certain of our stock compensation grants vest when the
employee retires. ASC 718 requires the completion of expensing of new grants with this feature by the first date the employee is eligible to retire.   
      Note 2 Accounting changes and new accounting guidance    
    ASU 2011-04 Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs
      In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04,  Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S.
GAAP and IFRSs . The ASU clarifies the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements including 1) the application of concepts of highest and best use and valuation premise in a fair value measurement are relevant
only when measuring the fair value of non-financial assets and are not relevant when measuring the fair value of financial assets or any liabilities, 2) measuring the fair value of an instrument classified in shareholders  equity from the
perspective of a market participant that holds that instrument as an asset, and 3) disclosures about quantitative information regarding the unobservable inputs used in a fair value measurement that is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value
hierarchy. This ASU also requires the disclosure of the level of the fair value hierarchy for financial instruments not reported at fair value on the balance sheet. This ASU did not impact our results of operations. See Note 21  Fair value
measurement  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the related disclosures.

ASU 2011-05 Presentation of Comprehensive Income    
  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05,  Presentation of Comprehensive Income . This ASU increased the prominence of other comprehensive
income in the financial statements. The ASU requires the disclosure of comprehensive income and its components in one of two ways: a single continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. The ASU did not change the components of
other comprehensive income. This ASU did not impact our results of operations. BNY Mellon adopted the two-statement approach. See the Consolidated Comprehensive Income Statement and Note 17  Other comprehensive income (loss)  of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for the related disclosures.       ASU 2011-08 Testing Goodwill for Impairment    
  In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08,  Testing Goodwill for Impairment , which amended the guidance in ASC 350 for goodwill
impairment. This ASU permits entities performing goodwill impairment tests the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit (i.e., Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test). If entities
determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two-step impairment test would be required. The ASU did not change how goodwill was calculated or
assigned to reporting units, or the annual goodwill impairment testing requirement. In addition, the ASU did not amend the requirement to perform interim goodwill impairment tests if events or circumstances warrant; however, it did revise the
examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider. The amendments were effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after Dec. 15, 2011. This ASU did not impact our results of
operations.   
      Note 3 Acquisitions and dispositions    
   We sometimes structure our acquisitions with both an initial payment and later contingent payments tied to post-closing revenue or
income growth. For acquisitions completed prior to Jan. 1, 2009, we record the fair value of contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable. For acquisitions completed after Jan. 1,
2009, subsequent changes in the fair value of a contingent consideration liability

136     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

will be recorded through the income statement. Contingent payments totaled $7 million in 2012.      At Dec. 31, 2012, we were potentially obligated to pay additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures based on contractual
agreements, could range from $15 million to $46 million over the next two years.       Acquisitions in 2012    
  On Oct 1, 2012, BNY Mellon acquired the remaining 50% interest of the WestLB Mellon Asset Management joint venture for cash of $22 million. We later
renamed the unit Meriten Investment Management GmbH ( Meriten ). We are obligated to pay, upon occurrence of certain events, contingent additional consideration of up to $13 million. Goodwill related to this acquisition, including the fair
value of the contingent additional consideration, totaled $70 million and is included in our Investment Management business. This goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this acquisition are
included in our Investment Management business, with a life of 8 years, and totaled $23 million.       Acquisitions in 2011    
  On July 1, 2011, BNY Mellon acquired the wealth management operations of Chicago-based Talon Asset Management ( Talon ) for cash of $11
million. We are obligated to pay, upon occurrence of certain events, contingent additional consideration of $5 million, which was recorded as goodwill at the acquisition date. Talon manages assets of wealthy families and institutions. Goodwill
related to this acquisition, is included in our Investment Management business and totaled $10 million and is deductible for tax purposes. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this acquisition are included in our Investment Management
business, with a life of 20 years, and totaled $6 million.      On Nov. 30, 2011, BNY Mellon acquired Penson Financial Services Australia Pty
Ltd., a clearing firm located in Australia, in a $33 million share purchase transaction. Goodwill related to this acquisition is included in our Investment Services business and totaled $10 million and is non-tax deductible. Customer relationship
intangible assets related to this acquisition are included in our Investment Services business, with a life of nine years, and totaled $6 million.

Dispositions in 2011       On Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold the Shareowner Services business. The sales price of $550 million resulted in a pre-tax gain of $98 million. We recorded an immaterial after-tax gain primarily due to the
write-off of non-tax deductible goodwill associated with the business. Excluding the gain on the sale, the Shareowner Services business contributed $273 million of revenue and $21 million of pre-tax income in 2011.   
   Acquisitions in 2010       On July 1,
2010, we acquired GIS for cash of $2.3 billion. GIS provides a comprehensive suite of products which includes subaccounting, fund accounting/administration, custody, managed account services and alternative investment services. Assets acquired
totaled approximately $590 million. Liabilities assumed totaled approximately $250 million. Goodwill related to this acquisition totaled $1,505 million, of which $1,256 million is tax deductible and $249 million is non-tax deductible. Customer
contract intangible assets related to this acquisition totaled $477 million with lives ranging from 10 years to 20 years.      On Aug. 2, 2010, we
acquired BAS for cash of $370 million. This transaction included the purchase of Frankfurter Service Kapitalanlage Gesellschaft mbH, a wholly-owned fund administration affiliate. The combined business offers a full range of tailored solutions
for investment companies, financial institutions and institutional investors in Germany. Assets acquired totaled approximately $3.6 billion and primarily consisted of securities of approximately $2.6 billion. Liabilities assumed totaled
approximately $3.4 billion and included deposits of $2.3 billion. Goodwill related to this acquisition of $272 million is tax deductible. Customer contract intangible assets related to this acquisition totaled $40 million with a life of 10 years.
     On Sept. 1, 2010, we acquired I(3) Advisors of Toronto, an independent wealth advisory company, for cash of $21.1 million. Goodwill related
to this acquisition totaled $8 million and is non-tax deductible. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this acquisition totaled $10 million with a life of 33 years.       Dispositions in 2010       On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold Mellon United National Bank
( MUNB ), our national bank   

BNY
Mellon     137   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

subsidiary located in Florida. The results for MUNB were classified as discontinued operations. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the MUNB
transaction.   
      Note 4 Discontinued operations    
   On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold MUNB, our former national bank subsidiary located in Florida. We applied discontinued operations
accounting to this business. Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is as follows:       

Discontinued operations   

(in millions)   
      
   2012   

2011  

2010  

Net interest revenue   
      
   $   
       -   

$  
      -  

$  
  9  

Noninterest expense:   

Staff   

-   

-  

4  

Professional, legal and other purchased services   

-   

-  

4  

Net occupancy   

-   

-  

1  

Other   

-  

-  

3  

Total noninterest expense   

-  

-  

12  

Loss from operations   

-   

-  

(3  
  )    
 
    Loss on assets held for sale   

-   

-  

(106  
  )    
 
    Loss on sale of MUNB   

-   

-  

(1  
  )    
 
    Benefit for income taxes   

-   

-  

(44  
  )    
 
    Net (loss) from discontinued operations   
      
   $   
   -   

$  
  -  

$  
  (66  
  )    
    Certain loans were not sold as part of the MUNB transaction and are held-for-sale. Loans of $76 million at Dec. 31, 2012
are included in other assets on the balance sheet. These loans are recorded at the lower of cost or market. In 2012 and 2011, we recorded income of $44 million and $100 million, respectively, primarily related to gains from sales/paydowns and
valuation changes on loans held-for-sale.      There were no assets or liabilities of discontinued operations at Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011.
     Results for 2010 included in these Financial Statements and Notes reflect continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.

Note 5 Securities    
   The following tables present the amortized cost, the gross unrealized gains and losses and the fair value of securities at Dec. 31,
2012 and 2011.       

(a)   
   Includes $9.4 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.

138     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Includes $13.1 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.

(a)   
   Includes $11.0 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.      

BNY
Mellon     139   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Temporarily impaired securities       At Dec. 31, 2012, substantially all of the unrealized losses on the investment securities portfolio were attributable to credit spreads widening since purchase, and interest rate movements. We do not
intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will have to sell.      The following tables show the aggregate related
fair value of investments with a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or more.   

(a)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.      

(a)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.      
      
  140     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The following table shows the maturity distribution by carrying amount and yield (on a tax equivalent
basis) of our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2012.       

(a)   
   Yields are based upon the amortized cost of securities.      

(b)   
   Includes money market funds.      

Other-than-temporary impairment       We routinely conduct periodic reviews of all securities using economic models to identify and evaluate each investment security to determine whether OTTI has occurred. Various inputs to the economic
models are used to determine if an unrealized loss on securities is other-than-temporary. For example, the most significant inputs related to non-agency RBMS are:       

Default rate the number of mortgage loans expected to go into default over the life of the transaction, which is driven by the roll rate of loans
in each performance bucket that will ultimately migrate to default; and      

Severity the loss expected to be realized when a loan defaults.         To determine if an unrealized loss is other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying assets (mortgages) and multiply that calculated amount by an estimate of realizable value
upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity) in order to determine the projected collateral loss. We also evaluate the current credit enhancement

underlying the bond to determine the impact on cash flows. If we determine that a given security will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a charge to
earnings.      In addition, we have estimated the expected loss by taking into account observed performance of the underlying securities, industry
studies, market forecasts, as well as our view of the economic outlook affecting collateral.      The table below shows the projected
weighted-average default rates and loss severities for the 2007, 2006 and late 2005 non-agency RMBS and the securities previously held in the Grantor Trust we established in connection with the restructuring of our investment securities portfolio in
2009, at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011.       

BNY
Mellon     141   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The following table provides pre-tax net securities gains (losses) by type.  
   
    The following table reflects investment securities credit losses recorded in earnings. The beginning balance represents
the credit loss component for which OTTI occurred on debt securities in prior periods. The additions represent the first time a debt security was credit impaired or when subsequent credit impairments have occurred. The deductions represent credit
losses on securities that have been sold, are required to be sold or it is our intention to sell.       
     Pledged assets       At Dec. 31, 2012, assets amounting to $90 billion were pledged primarily for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The significant components of pledged assets were as follows: $80
billion of securities, $5 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks and $5 billion of loans. Also included in these pledged assets were securities available-for-sale of $1 billion which were pledged as collateral for actual borrowings. The
lenders in these borrowings have the right to repledge or sell these securities. We obtain securities under resale, securities borrowed and custody agreements on terms which permit us to repledge or resell the securities to others. As of Dec. 31,
2012, the market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was $31 billion. We routinely repledge or lend these securities to third parties. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the market value of collateral sold and repledged was $9 billion.

Note 6 Loans and asset quality    
    Loans       The table below
provides the details of our loan distribution and industry concentrations of credit risk at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011.       

In the ordinary course of business, we and our banking subsidiaries have made loans at prevailing interest rates and terms to our directors and executive
officers and to entities in which certain of our directors have an ownership interest or direct or indirect subsidiaries of such entities. The aggregate amount of these loans was $5 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $3 million at both Dec. 31, 2011 and
Dec. 31, 2010. These loans are primarily extensions of credit under revolving lines of credit established for such entities.      Our loan
portfolio is comprised of three portfolio segments: commercial, lease financings and mortgages. We manage our portfolio at the class level which is comprised of six classes of financing receivables: commercial, commercial real estate, financial
institutions, lease financings, wealth management loans and mortgages, and other residential mortgages. The following tables are presented for each class of financing receivable, and provide additional information about our credit risks and the
adequacy of our allowance for credit losses.   

142     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Allowance for credit losses       Transactions in the allowance for credit losses are summarized as follows:       

BNY
Mellon     143   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Nonperforming assets       The table below sets forth information about our nonperforming assets.      

(a)   
   Loans of consolidated investment management funds are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio. Included in these loans are nonperforming loans of $174 million
at Dec. 31, 2012 and $101 million at Dec. 31, 2011. These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table
above.      
 
   At Dec. 31, 2012, undrawn commitments to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced
rate were not material.       Lost interest        

Lost interest   

(in millions)   
      
   2012   

2011  

2010  

Amount by which interest income recognized on nonperforming loans exceeded reversals:   

Total   
      
   $   
   5   

$  
  2  

$  
  2  

Foreign   

-   

-  

-  

Amount by which interest income would have increased if nonperforming loans at year-end had been performing for the entire
year:   

Total   
      
   $   
   15   

$  
  17  

$  
  20  
  (a)    
 
    Foreign   

-   

-  

-  

(a)   
   Lost interest excludes discontinued operations for 2010.

144     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Impaired loans       The table below sets forth information about our impaired loans. We use the discounted cash flow method as the primary method for valuing impaired loans.  

(a)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under
the accounting standard related to impaired loans.          

(a)   
   The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.      

(b)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under
the accounting standard related to impaired loans.      
 
         BNY
Mellon     145   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Past due loans       The table below sets forth information about our past due loans.      

Troubled debt restructurings  (  TDRs )    
  A modified loan is considered a TDR if the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties and the creditor grants a concession to the debtor that would
not otherwise be considered. A TDR may include a transfer of real estate or other assets from the debtor   

to the creditor, or a modification of the term of the loan. Not all modified loans are considered TDRs.

The following table presents TDRs
that occurred in 2012 and 2011.       

Commercial       The modifications of the commercial loans and unfunded lending-related commitments in 2012 consisted of changing the stated interest rates and/or extending the maturity dates of the loans. The
modification of the commercial loan in 2011 consisted of reducing the stated interest rate and extending the maturity date of the loan. The difference between the book value of the loan and net cash flow discounted at the original loan s rate,
if no observable market price exists, is included in the allowance for credit losses.

Commercial real estate       The modifications of the commercial real estate loans and unfunded lending- related commitments in 2012 consisted of changing the stated interest rates and extending the maturity dates of the loans. The
difference between the book value of the loan and the estimated fair value of the collateral is included in the allowance for credit losses.   
   Wealth management loans and mortgages    
  The modifications of the wealth management loans and mortgages in 2012 consisted of changes in

146     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

payment terms and extensions of the maturity dates. The difference between the book value of the loan and the estimated fair value of the collateral is included in the allowance for credit
losses.       Other residential mortgages       The modifications of the other residential mortgage loans in 2012 and 2011 consisted of reducing the stated interest rates and in certain cases, a forbearance of default and extending the maturity dates.
The value of modified loans is based on the fair value of the collateral. Probable loss factors are applied to the value of the modified loans to determine the allowance for credit losses.   

Foreign       The modification of the foreign loan in 2012 consisted of extending the maturity date of the loan. The difference between the book value of the loan and the net present value discounted at the original
loan s rate is included in the allowance for credit losses.       TDRs that subsequently defaulted    
  There were 21 residential mortgage loans that had been restructured in a TDR during the previous 12 months and have subsequently defaulted in 2012. The
total recorded investment of these loans was $6 million.   

Credit quality indicators    
  Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities and avoid single name/industry concentrations. Each
customer is assigned an internal rating grade which is mapped to an external rating agency grade equivalent based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time.   
  The following tables set forth information about credit quality indicators.       Commercial loan portfolio        

The commercial loan portfolio is divided into investment grade and non-investment grade categories based on
rating criteria largely consistent with those of the public rating agencies. Each customer in the portfolio is assigned an internal rating grade. These internal rating grades are generally consistent with the ratings categories of the public rating
agencies. Customers with ratings consistent with BBB- (S P)/Baa3 (Moody s) or better are considered to be investment grade. Those clients with ratings lower than this threshold are considered to be non-investment grade.   
   Wealth management loans and mortgages        

Wealth management non-mortgage loans are not typically rated by external rating agencies. A majority of the
wealth management loans are secured by the customers  investment management accounts or custody accounts. Eligible assets pledged for these loans are typically investment grade, fixed income securities, equities and/or mutual funds. Internal
ratings for this portion of the wealth management portfolio, therefore, would equate to investment-grade external ratings. Wealth management loans are provided to select customers based on the pledge of other types of assets, including business
assets, fixed assets, or a modest amount of commercial real estate. For the loans collateralized by other assets, the credit quality of the obligor is carefully analyzed, but we do not consider this portfolio of loans to be investment grade.
     Credit quality indicators for wealth management mortgages are not correlated to external ratings. Wealth management mortgages are typically
loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured   

BNY
Mellon     147   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

primarily by residential property. These loans are primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan to value ratio of 63% at origination. In the wealth management portfolio,
1% of the mortgages were past due at Dec. 31, 2012.      At Dec. 31, 2012, the private wealth mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following
geographic concentrations: New York   22%; California   19%; Massachusetts   17%; Florida   8%; and other   34%.   
   Other residential mortgages       The other
residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and totaled $1,632 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $1,923 million at Dec. 31, 2011. These loans are not typically correlated to external ratings. Included in
this portfolio at Dec. 31, 2012 are $497 million of mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the purchased loans in
this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 75% at origination and 24% of these loans were at least 60 days delinquent. The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in
California, Florida, Virginia, Maryland and the tri-state area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut).       Overdrafts    
  Overdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients and totaled $5,298 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $4,849 million at Dec. 31, 2011.
Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business days.   
   Margin loans       We had $13,397 million of
secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $12,760 million at Dec. 31, 2011. Margin loans are collateralized with marketable securities and borrowers are required to maintain a daily collateral margin in excess of 100%
of the value of the loan. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to margin loans.       Other loans       Other loans primarily includes loans to consumers that are fully
collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities, as well as bankers  acceptances.

Reverse repurchase agreements       Reverse repurchase agreements are transactions fully collateralized with high-quality liquid securities. These transactions carry minimal credit risk and therefore are not allocated an allowance for
credit losses.   
      Note 7 Goodwill and intangible assets    
    Impairment testing    
  BNY Mellon s three business segments include seven reporting units for which goodwill impairment testing is performed on an annual basis. The
Investment Management segment is comprised of two reporting units. The Investment Services segment is comprised of four reporting units. One reporting unit is included in the Other segment.      The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of
the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit were to exceed its estimated fair value, a second step would be performed that would
compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.   
  BNY Mellon conducted its annual goodwill impairment test on a quantitative basis on all seven reporting units in the second quarter of 2012. The
estimated fair value of each of the Company s reporting units exceeded the carrying value and no goodwill impairment was recognized.   
  Intangible assets not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired.
      Goodwill       The level of
goodwill increased in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily as a result of foreign exchange translation on non-U.S. dollar denominated goodwill and the Meriten acquisiton. The table below provides a breakdown of goodwill by business.

148     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Includes the reclassification of goodwill associated with the Shareowner Services business from Investment Services to the Other segment.

(b)   
   Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      

Intangible assets       The decrease in intangible assets in 2012 compared with 2011 resulted from amortization of intangible assets, partially offset by the Meriten acquisition and

foreign exchange translation on non-U.S. dollar denominated goodwill.      Amortization of
intangible assets was $384 million, $428 million and $421 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

The table below provides a breakdown
of intangible assets by business.      

(a)   
   Includes the reclassification of intangible assets associated with the Shareowner Services business from Investment Services to the Other segment.

(b)   
   Other changes in intangible assets include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      
  The table below provides a breakdown of intangible assets by type.       

(a)   
   Intangible assets not subject to amortization have an indefinite life.      
         BNY
Mellon     149   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Estimated annual amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:

Note 8 Other assets   

(a)   
   Includes Federal Reserve Bank stock of $436 million and $429 million, respectively, at cost.

Seed capital and private equity investments valued using net asset value per share    
  In our Investment Management business, we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for
institutions and other investors. As part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. BNY Mellon also holds private equity investments, which consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings and direct
equity investments. Seed capital and private equity investments are included in other assets. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to private equity investments.   
  The fair value of these investments has been estimated using the net asset value ( NAV ) per share of BNY Mellon s ownership interest in
the funds. The table below presents information about BNY Mellon s investments in seed capital and private equity investments.

(a)   
   Private equity funds primarily include numerous venture capital funds that invest in various sectors of the economy. Private equity funds do not have redemption
rights. Distributions from such funds will be received as the underlying investments in the funds are liquidated.      

(b)   
   Other funds include various market neutral, leveraged loans, hedge funds, real estate and structured credit funds. Redemption notice periods vary by fund.

N/A   
   - Not applicable.      
      
  150     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 9 Deposits    
   Total time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or greater was $50.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2012, and $44.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. At
Dec. 31, 2012, the scheduled maturities of all time deposits are as follows: 2013   $50.7 billion; 2014   $22 million; 2015   $3 million; 2016   $- million; 2017  $- million; and 2018 and thereafter   $3 million.
  
      Note 10 Net interest revenue    
   The following table provides the components of net interest revenue presented on the consolidated income statement.   

Note 11 Noninterest expense    
   The following table provides a breakdown of noninterest expense presented on the consolidated income statement.   

Note 12 Restructuring charges    
   Restructuring charges are recorded as a separate line on the income statement and reported in the Other segment as they are corporate
initiatives and not directly related to the operating performance of the businesses. The aggregate restructuring charge is included in the merger and integration, litigation and restructuring charges expense category on the income statement.
Severance payments are primarily paid over the salary continuance period in accordance with the separation plan.       Operational excellence
initiatives       In 2011, we announced our operational excellence initiatives which include an expense reduction initiative impacting
approximately 1,500 positions or approximately 3% of our global workforce, as well as additional initiatives to transform operations, technology and corporate services that will increase productivity and reduce the growth rate of expenses. We
recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $107 million related to the operational excellence initiatives

BNY
Mellon     151   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

in 2011. This charge was comprised of $78 million of severance costs and $29 million primarily for operating lease-related items and consulting costs. In 2012, we recorded a net recovery of $2
million associated with the operational excellence initiatives. The net recovery in 2012 reflects additional severance charges and a lease restructuring, which were more than offset by a gain on the sale of a property. The following table presents
the activity in the restructuring reserve related to the operational excellence initiatives through Dec. 31, 2012.       
    The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.   
   
     Global location strategy       The 2009 global location strategy focused on migrating positions to our global growth centers. In 2012, we recorded a recovery of $12 million associated with the global location strategy. The global
location strategy program was substantially complete at Dec. 31, 2012.      The following table presents the activity in the restructuring reserve
related to the global location strategy through Dec. 31, 2012.

The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.   

Note 13 Income taxes    

The components of income before taxes are as follows:       

152     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The components of our net deferred tax liability are as follows:   
   
    As of Dec. 31, 2012, we have net operating loss carryforwards for state and local income tax purposes of $915 million
which will expire in 2029. We have a German net operating loss carryforward of $198 million with an indefinite life. We have not recorded a valuation allowance because we expect to realize our deferred tax assets including these
carryovers.     As of Dec. 31, 2012, we had approximately $4.3 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have been
permanently reinvested abroad and for which no incremental U.S. income tax provision has been recorded. If these earnings were to be repatriated, the estimated U.S. tax liability as of Dec. 31, 2012 would be up to $930 million. Management has no
intention of repatriating these earnings to the U.S. in the foreseeable future.      The following table presents a reconciliation of the
statutory federal income tax rate to our effective income tax rate.       

Our total tax reserves as of Dec. 31, 2012 were $340 million compared with $250 million at Dec. 31, 2011. If these tax
reserves were unnecessary, $340 million would affect the effective tax rate in future periods. We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to income taxes in income tax expense. Included in the balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2012
is accrued interest, where applicable, of $35 million. The additional tax expense related to interest for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012 was $11 million compared with $31 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.   
  As previously disclosed, on Nov. 10, 2009 BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court challenging the IRS  disallowance of certain foreign
tax credits claimed for the 2001 and 2002 tax years. Trial was held from April 16 to May 17, 2012.      On Feb. 11, 2013 BNY Mellon
received an adverse decision from the U.S. Tax Court. We continue to believe the tax treatment of the transaction was correct and will appeal the Court s decision. As a result of the ruling and in accordance with the accounting for
uncertain tax positions under ASC 740, BNY Mellon expects to record a tax charge of approximately $850 million during the first quarter of 2013. Excluding this charge, it is reasonably possible the total reserve for uncertain tax positions
could decrease within the next 12 months by an amount up to $67 million as a result of adjustments related to tax years that are still subject to examination. See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
     Our federal income tax returns are closed to examination for all periods through 2002. The years 2003 through 2006 remain open to
examination. The years 2007 and 2008 are closed for further examination, however one matter is before the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) appeals. Our New York State and New York City income tax returns are closed to examination through
2010. Our UK income tax returns are closed to examination through 2008.   

BNY
Mellon     153   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 14 Long-term debt    

(a)   
   Fixed rate.      

Total long-term debt that matures during the next five years for BNY Mellon is as follows: 2013  
$1.61 billion, 2014   $4.36 billion, 2015   $3.66 billion, 2016   $1.85 billion and 2017   $1.25 billion. At Dec. 31, 2012, subordinated debt of $407 million may be redeemable at our option in 2013.   
   Trust-preferred securities       At Dec. 31,
2012, two wholly owned subsidiaries of BNY Mellon (the  Trusts ) have issued cumulative Company-Obligated Mandatory Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures ( trust
preferred securities ). The sole assets of these two trusts are junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of BNY Mellon with maturities and interest rates that match the trust preferred securities. Our obligations under the agreements
that relate to the trust preferred securities, the Trusts and the debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by us of the Trusts  obligations under the trust preferred securities.

Additionally, at Dec. 31, 2012, we also owned Mellon Capital IV, whose sole assets were originally junior
subordinated debentures and a stock purchase contract for preferred stock. Through a remarketing in May 2012, the junior subordinated debentures issued by BNY Mellon and held by Mellon Capital IV were sold to third party investors and then exchanged
for BNY Mellon s senior notes, which were sold in a public offering. The proceeds of the sale of the senior notes were used to fund the purchase by Mellon Capital IV of $500 million of BNY Mellon s Series A preferred stock, which was
issued on June 20, 2012. At Dec. 31, 2012, the Series A preferred stock was the sole asset of Mellon Capital IV. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to preferred stock, including the
Series A preferred stock.      On Nov. 26, 2012, BNY Mellon redeemed all outstanding 6.875% Trust Preferred Securities, Series E, issued by BNY
Capital IV (liquidation amount $25 per security and $200 million in the aggregate) and all outstanding 5.95% Trust Preferred Securities, Series F, issued by BNY Capital V (liquidation amount $25 per security and $350 million in the aggregate).

The following tables set forth a
summary of the trust preferred securities issued by the Trusts as of Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011:       

(a)   
   Call price decreases ratably to par in the year 2016.      

154     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Junior subordinated debentures and interest in stock purchase contracts for Mellon Capital IV.      

(b)   
   Call price decreases ratably to par in the year 2016.      

Note 15 Securitizations and variable interest entities    
   BNY Mellon s VIEs generally include retail, institutional and alternative investment funds offered to its retail and
institutional customers in which it acts as the fund s investment manager. BNY Mellon earns management fees on these funds as well as performance fees in certain funds. It may also provide start-up capital in its new funds. These VIEs are
included in the scope of ASU 2010-10 and are reviewed for consolidation based on the guidance in ASC 810.      BNY Mellon has other VIEs,
including securitization trusts, which are no longer considered qualifying special purpose entities, and CLOs, in which BNY Mellon serves as the investment manager. In addition, we provide trust and custody services for a fee to entities sponsored
by other corporations in which we have no other interest. These VIEs are evaluated under the guidance included in ASU 2009-17. BNY Mellon has two securitizations and several CLOs, which are assessed for consolidation in accordance with ASU 2009-17.
     The following tables present the incremental assets and liabilities included in BNY Mellon s consolidated financial statements, after
applying intercompany eliminations, as of Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, based on the assessments performed in accordance with ASC 810 and ASU 2009-17. The net assets of any consolidated VIE are solely available to settle the liabilities of the
VIE and to settle any investors 

ownership liquidation requests, including any seed capital invested in the VIE by BNY Mellon.       
     
    BNY Mellon is not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our VIEs. Additionally,
creditors of any consolidated VIEs do not have any recourse to the general credit of BNY Mellon.   

BNY
Mellon     155   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Non-consolidated VIEs       As of Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, the following assets related to the VIEs, where BNY Mellon is not the primary beneficiary, are included in our consolidated financial statements.   

The maximum loss exposure indicated in the above tables relates solely to BNY Mellon s seed capital or residual
interests invested in the VIEs.   
 
    Consolidated credit supported VIEs       At Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon had no remaining consolidated credit supported VIEs. At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon s financial statements included certain funds created solely with securities subject to
credit support agreements where we agreed to absorb the majority of loss.       
 
      Note 16 Shareholders  equity    
    Common stock       BNY
Mellon has 3.5 billion authorized shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share. At Dec. 31, 2012, 1,163,490,341 shares of common stock were outstanding.

Preferred stock    
  BNY Mellon has 100 million authorized shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.01. The table below presents a summary of BNY Mellon s
preferred stock issued and outstanding at Dec. 31, 2012.       

(a)   
   The carrying value is recorded net of issuance costs.      

On June 20, 2012, BNY Mellon issued the Series A preferred stock for $500 million. On Sept. 19, 2012,
BNY Mellon issued 22 million and on Oct. 10, 2012, BNY Mellon issued an additional 1.3 million of Series C Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/4,000th interest in a share of BNY Mellon s Series C preferred stock for an aggregate
of $568 million, net of issuance costs. Holders of both the Series A and Series C preferred stock issues are entitled to receive dividends on each dividend payment date (March 20, June 20, Sept. 20 and Dec. 20 of each year), if declared by
BNY Mellon s Board of Directors. BNY Mellon s

ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of our common stock or any of our shares that rank junior to the preferred stock as to the payment of
dividends and/or the distribution of any assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of BNY Mellon will be prohibited, subject to certain restrictions, in the event that we do not declare and pay in full preferred dividends for the then
current dividend period of the Series A preferred stock or the last preceding dividend period of the Series C preferred stock.

156     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

All of the outstanding shares of the Series A preferred stock are owned by Mellon Capital IV, which will
pass through any dividend on the Series A preferred stock to the holders of its Normal Preferred Capital Securities. All of the outstanding shares of the Series C preferred stock are held by the depositary of the depositary shares, which will pass
through the applicable portion of any dividend on the Series C Preferred Stock to the holders of record of the depositary shares.      The
preferred stock is not subject to the operation of a sinking fund and is not convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock or any other class or series of our other securities. Subject to the restrictions in BNY Mellon s
2007 replacement capital covenant, subsequently amended on May 8 and Sept. 11, 2012, we may redeem the Series A preferred stock, in whole or in part, at our option. We may also, at our option, redeem the shares of the Series C preferred stock
in whole or in part, on or after the dividend payment date in September 2017, or in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as defined in the Certificate of Designations of the Series C
preferred stock).      The terms of the Series A preferred stock and the Series C preferred stock are more fully described in each of their
Certificate of Designations, each of which is filed as an exhibit to BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012.       Temporary equity       Temporary equity was $178 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $114 million at
Dec. 31, 2011. Temporary equity represents amounts recorded for redeemable non-controlling interests resulting from equity-classified share-based payment arrangements that are currently redeemable or are expected to become redeemable. The current
redemption value of such awards is classified as temporary equity and is adjusted to its redemption value at each balance sheet date.   
   Common stock repurchase program       On
Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million shares of common stock. On March 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to an additional
13 million shares of common stock. On Feb. 14, 2012, in order to continue

with share repurchases under our 2011 capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 12 million shares of common stock, of which 6.8 million shares of
common stock remained available for repurchase under the Feb. 2012 board authorization. While there are no expiration dates on the prior share repurchase authorizations, BNY Mellon does not intend to use the prior authorizations for any future share
repurchases. On March 13, 2012, in connection with the Federal Reserve s non-objection to our 2012 capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock purchase program providing for the repurchase of an aggregate of $1.16 billion
of common stock. The new share repurchase program may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions at such prices, times and upon such other terms as may be determined from time to time. At Dec. 31, 2012, the
maximum dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the program totaled $416 million. There is no expiration date on the share repurchase authorizations. In 2012, we repurchased 49.8 million common shares in the open market, at an
average price of $22.38 per share for a total of $1.12 billion.       Capital adequacy    
  Regulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with
established quantitative measurements. For the Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon must, among other things, qualify as well capitalized.   
  As of Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries were considered well capitalized on the basis of the Basel I Total and Tier 1 capital
to risk-weighted assets ratios and the leverage ratio (Basel I Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets as defined for regulatory purposes).

BNY
Mellon     157   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Our consolidated and largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, capital ratios are shown below.

(a)   
   Determined under Basel I guidelines. For a banking institution to qualify as  well capitalized,  its Basel I Tier 1, Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) and
leverage capital ratios must be at least 6%, 10% and 5%, respectively. For The Bank of New York Mellon, our largest bank subsidiary, to qualify as  adequately capitalized ,  Basel I Tier 1, Total and leverage capital ratios must be at
least 4%, 8% and 3%, respectively.         If a financial holding company such as BNY Mellon fails to qualify as well capitalized,
it may lose its status as a financial holding company, which may restrict its ability to undertake or continue certain activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without financial holding company
status. If a bank holding company such as BNY Mellon or bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. fails to qualify as  well capitalized,  it may be subject to higher FDIC assessments.   
  If a bank holding company such as BNY Mellon or bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. fails to qualify as adequately capitalized,
regulatory sanctions and limitations are imposed.      At Dec. 31, 2012, the amounts of capital by which BNY Mellon and The Bank of New York
Mellon, exceed the well-capitalized guidelines are as follows:       

The following table presents the components of our Basel I Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital at Dec. 31,
2012 and 2011.       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel I guidelines.      

158     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 17 Other comprehensive income (loss)    

(a)   
   Includes a net reclassification adjustment of $14 million to retained earnings from other comprehensive income in 2010.      

BNY
Mellon     159   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 18 Stock-based compensation    
   Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units ( RSUs )
and other stock-based awards to employees and directors of BNY Mellon. At Dec. 31, 2012, under the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved in April 2011, we may issue 32,994,545 new options. Of this amount, 20,144,378 shares (subject to potential increase
as provided in the Long-Term Incentive Plan) may be issued as restricted stock or RSUs. Stock-based compensation expense related to retirement eligibility vesting totaled $64 million in 2012, $31 million in 2011 and $25 million in 2010.   
   Stock options       Our Long-Term Incentive
Plans provide for the issuance of stock options at fair market value at the date of grant to officers and employees of BNY Mellon. Generally, each option granted is exercisable between one and ten years from the date of grant.   
  The compensation cost that has been charged against income was $70 million for 2012, $96 million for 2011 and $87 million for 2010. The total income tax
benefit recognized in the income statement was $29 million for 2012, $40 million for 2011 and $35 million for 2010.   

We used a lattice-based binomial method to calculate the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of
each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the weighted-average assumptions noted in the following table:       
    For 2012, 2011 and 2010, assumptions were determined as follows:   

Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our stock, historical volatility of our stock, and other factors.

We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model.      

The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of grant.

The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted
are expected to be outstanding.      

A summary of the status of our
options as of Dec. 31, 2012, and changes during the year, is presented below:       

160     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The weighted-average fair value of options at grant date was $5.50 in 2012, $8.47 in 2011 and $8.38 in 2010.   
  The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $8 million in 2012, $7 million in 2011 and $12 million in 2010.   
  As of Dec. 31, 2012, $92 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested options is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.5 years.      Cash received from option exercises totaled $40 million in 2012, $18 million in 2011 and
$31 million in 2010. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercised totaled less than $1 million in 2012, $2 million in 2011 and $1 million in 2010.       Restricted stock and RSUs       Restricted stock and RSUs are granted under our long-term
incentive plans at no cost to the recipient. These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment, for a specified period. The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting
rights and generally is entitled to dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse. The recipient generally is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to
any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding but does not receive voting rights.

The fair value of restricted stock and RSUs is equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the
date of grant. The expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is generally three years. The total compensation expense recognized for restricted stock and RSUs was $185 million in 2012, $134 million in 2011 and $119 million in 2010. The
total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $76 million for 2012, $52 million for 2011 and $46 million for 2010.   
  BNY Mellon s Executive Committee members were granted 817,698 RSUs in 2011 which contained certain performance criteria that were achieved in 2011.
The actual number of units that will ultimately vest is subject to negative discretion by BNY Mellon s Human Resources Compensation Committee and as a result, are subject to variable accounting.   
  The following table summarizes our nonvested restricted stock and RSU activity for 2012.  

As of Dec. 31, 2012, $142 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock
and RSUs is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.   

BNY
Mellon     161   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The total fair value of restricted stock and RSUs that vested was $84 million in 2012, $100 million in 2011
and $96 million in 2010.       Subsidiary Long-Term Incentive plans       BNY Mellon also has several subsidiary Long-Term Incentive Plans which have issued restricted subsidiary shares to certain employees. These share awards are subject to forfeiture until certain
restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period of time. The shares are non-voting and non-dividend paying. Once the restrictions lapse, which generally occurs in three to five years, the shares can only be sold, at
the option of the employee, to BNY Mellon at a price based generally on the fair value of the subsidiary at the time

of repurchase. In certain instances BNY Mellon has an election to call the shares.   
      Note 19 Employee benefit plans    
   BNY Mellon has defined benefit and/or defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and eligible
part-time employees and other post-retirement plans providing healthcare benefits for certain retired employees.       Pension and
post-retirement healthcare plans       The following tables report the combined data for our domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and
post-retirement healthcare plans.   

(a)   
   The benefit obligation for pension benefits is the projected benefit obligation and for healthcare benefits, it is the accumulated benefit obligation.

162     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Net periodic benefit cost (credit)    

Changes in other comprehensive (income) loss in 2012   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

Net loss (gain) arising during period   
      
   $   
   163   

$   
   90   

$   
   44   

$   
   1   

Recognition of prior years  net gain (loss)   

(167   
   )    

(12   
   )    

(9   
   )    

-   

Prior service cost (credit) arising during period   

-   

-   

(98   
   )    

-   

Recognition of prior years  service (cost) credit   

16   

-   

2   

-   

Recognition of net initial (obligation) asset   

-   

-   

(3   
   )    

-   

Foreign exchange adjustment   

N/A   

-   

N/A   

-   

Total recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss (before tax
effects)   
      
   $   
   12   

$   
   78   

$   
   (64   
   )    
     
   $   
   1   

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost (income) in 2013 (before tax effects)   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

(Gain) loss recognition   
      
   $   
   205   

$   
   27   

$   
   12   

$   
   -   

Prior service cost recognition   

(16   
   )    

-   

(10   
   )    

-   

Net initial obligation (asset) recognition   

-   

-   

-   

-   

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $4.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 and $4.1
billion at Dec. 31, 2011.           

BNY
Mellon     163   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

For information on pension assumptions see the  Critical accounting estimates  section.
      Assumed healthcare cost trend Domestic post- retirement healthcare benefits    
  The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used in determining benefit expense for 2013 is 7.50% decreasing to 4.75% in 2022. This projection is based on
various economic models that forecast a decreasing growth rate of healthcare expenses over time. The underlying assumption is that healthcare expense growth cannot outpace gross national product ( GNP ) growth indefinitely, and over time a
lower equilibrium growth rate will be achieved. Further, the growth rate assumed in 2022 bears a reasonable relationship to the discount rate.   
  An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by
$14 million, or 8%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $1 million, or 8%. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $12 million, or 7%, and the sum of the service
and interest costs by $1 million, or 7%.       Assumed healthcare cost trend Foreign post-retirement healthcare benefits    
  An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by
less than $1 million and the sum of the service and interest costs by less than $1 million. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by less than $1 million and the sum of the
service and interest costs by less than $1 million.   
 
   The following benefit payments for BNY Mellon s pension and healthcare plans, which reflect expected
future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:      
     Plan contributions       BNY Mellon expects to make cash contributions to fund its defined benefit pension plans in 2013 of $20 million for the domestic plans and $25 million for the foreign plans.   
  BNY Mellon expects to make cash contributions to fund its post-retirement healthcare plans in 2013 of $17 million for the domestic plans and less than $1
million for the foreign plans.       Investment strategy and asset allocation       BNY Mellon is responsible for the administration of various employee pension and healthcare post-retirement benefits plans, both domestically and internationally. The domestic plans are administered by
BNY Mellon s Benefits Administration Committee, a named fiduciary. Subject to the following, at all relevant times, BNY Mellon s Benefits Investment Committee, another named fiduciary to the domestic plans, is responsible for the
investment of plan assets. The Benefits Investment Committee s responsibilities include the investment of all domestic defined benefit plan assets, as well as the determination of investment options offered to participants in all domestic
defined contribution plans. The Benefits Investment Committee conducts periodic reviews of investment performance, asset allocation and investment manager suitability. In addition, the Benefits Investment Committee has oversight of the

164     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Regional Governance Committees for the foreign defined benefit plans.      Our investment
objective for U.S. and foreign plans is to maximize total return while maintaining a broadly diversified portfolio for the primary purpose of satisfying obligations for future benefit payments.   
  Equities are the main holding of the plans. Alternative investments (including private equities) and fixed income securities provide diversification and,
in certain cases, lower the volatility of returns. In general, equity securities and alternative investments within any domestic plan s portfolio can be maintained in the range of 30% to 70% of total plan assets, fixed-income securities can
range from 20% to 50% of plan assets and cash equivalents can be held in amounts ranging from 0% to 5% of plan assets. Actual asset allocation within the approved ranges varies from time to time based on economic conditions (both current and
forecast) and the advice of professional advisors.      Our pension assets were invested as follows at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011:   

(a)   
   Reflects the $400 million discretionary contribution to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Pension Plan on Dec. 31, 2012. Excluding this contribution, the
percentage of domestic plan assets held in cash was less than 1% at Dec. 31, 2012.         We held no The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation stock in our pension plans at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2012. Assets of the U.S. post-retirement healthcare plan are invested in an insurance contract.       Fair value measurement of plan assets       In accordance with ASC 715, BNY Mellon has established a
three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements of its pension plan assets based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset as of the measurement date. The valuation hierarchy is consistent with guidance in ASC 820 which is
detailed in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value, as
well as the general classification of such assets pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Cash and currency    
  This category consists primarily of foreign currency balances and is included in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Foreign currency is translated
monthly based on current exchange rates.       Common and preferred stock, exchange traded funds and equity funds    
  These investments include equities, exchange traded funds and equity funds and are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the
individual securities are traded, if available. Where there are no readily available market quotations, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.   
   Venture capital investments and partnership interests       There are no readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the investments is based on the pension plan s ownership percentage of the fair value of the underlying funds as
provided by the fund managers. These funds are typically valued on a quarterly basis. The pension plan s venture capital investments and partnership interests are valued at NAV as a practical expedient for fair value and classified as Level 3
of the valuation hierarchy.       Collective trust funds       Collective trust funds include commingled and U.S. equity funds that have no readily available market quotations. The fair value of the funds are based on the securities in the portfolio, which typically
are the amount that the fund might reasonably expect to receive for the securities upon a sale. These funds are valued using observable inputs on either a daily or monthly basis. Collective trust funds are included as Level 2 of the valuation
hierarchy.       Fixed income investments       Fixed income investments include U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Government agencies, sovereign government obligations, U.S. corporate bonds and foreign corporate debt funds. U.S. Treasury securities

BNY
Mellon     165   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the individual security is traded and included as Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. U.S. Government agencies, sovereign
government obligations, U.S. corporate bonds and foreign corporate debt funds are valued based on quoted prices for comparable securities with similar yields and credit ratings. When quoted prices are not available for identical or similar bonds,
the bonds are valued using discounted cash flows that maximize observable inputs, such as current yields of similar instruments, but includes adjustments for certain risks that may not be observable, such as credit and liquidity risks. U.S.
Government agencies, sovereign government obligations, U.S. corporate bonds and foreign corporate debt funds are primarily included as Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy with a small portion of foreign corporate debt funds included as Level 3.
      Funds of funds       There are
no readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the fund is based on NAVs of the funds in the portfolio, which reflects the value of the underlying securities. The fair value of the underlying securities is typically the
amount that the fund might reasonably expect to receive upon selling those hard to value or illiquid securities within the portfolios. These funds are valued using unobservable inputs on a monthly basis and are included as Level 3 of the valuation
hierarchy.   
 
   The following tables present the fair value of each major category of plan assets as of Dec. 31, 2012 and
Dec. 31, 2011, by captions and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2.       

166     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Changes in Level 3 fair value
measurements       The table below includes a rollforward of the plan assets for the years ended Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011 (including the change in
fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.       

Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs-foreign plans-for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012   

(in millions)   
      
    Corporate  
  debt funds   

Venture capital and  
  partnership interests   

Total plan assets  
  at fair value   

Fair value at Dec. 31, 2011   
      
  $  
  14  

$  
  40  

$  
  54  

Total gains or (losses) included in earnings (or changes in net assets)   

3  

1  

4  

Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:   

Purchases   

-  

1  

1  

Sales   

-  

(1  
  )   

(1  
  )    
 
     Fair value at Dec. 31, 2012    
      
   $   
   17   

$   
   41   

$   
   58   

Change in unrealized gains or (losses) for the period included in earnings (or changes in
net assets) for assets held at the end of the reporting period   
      
  $  
  3  

$  
  1  

$  
  4  

BNY
Mellon     167   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs-foreign plans-for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011   

(in millions)   
      
    Corporate  
  debt funds   

Venture capital and  
  partnership interests   

Total plan assets  
  at fair value   

Fair value at Dec. 31, 2010   
      
  $  
  14  

$  
  41  

$  
  55  

Total gains or (losses) included in earnings (or changes in net assets)   

-  

1  

1  

Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:   

Purchases   

-  

4  

4  

Sales   

-  

(6  
  )   

(6  
  )    
 
     Fair value at Dec. 31, 2011    
      
   $   
   14   

$   
   40   

$   
   54   

Change in unrealized gains or (losses) for the period included in earnings (or changes in
net assets) for assets held at the end of the reporting period   
      
  $  
  -  

$  
  1  

$  
  1  

Venture capital and partnership interests and funds of funds valued using net asset value per share
      BNY Mellon had pension and post-retirement plan assets invested in venture capital and partnership interests and funds of funds valued
using net asset value. The fund of funds investments are redeemable at net asset value under agreements with the fund of funds managers.       

Venture capital and partnership interests and funds of funds   
   valued using NAV Dec. 31, 2012    

(dollar amounts       in millions)    
     
    Fair  
  value   

Unfunded  
  commitments   

Redemption  
  frequency   

Redemption  
  notice  
  period   

Venture capital and partnership interests  (a)    
     
  $  
  146  

$  
  18  

N/A  

N/A  

Funds of funds  (b)    

130  

-  

Monthly  

30-45 days  

Total   
     
   $   
   276   

$   
   18   

Venture capital and partnership interests and funds of funds   
   valued using NAV Dec. 31, 2011    

(dollar amounts       in millions)    
     
    Fair  
  value   

Unfunded  
  commitments   

Redemption  
  frequency   

Redemption  
  notice  
  period   

Venture capital and partnership interests  (a)    
     
  $  
  161  

$  
  36  

N/A  

N/A  

Funds of funds  (b)    

128  

-  

Monthly  

30-45 days  

Total   
     
   $   
   289   

$   
   36   

(a)   
   Venture capital and partnership interests do not have redemption rights. Distributions from such funds will be received as the underlying investments are liquidated.

(b)   
   Funds of funds include multi-strategy hedge funds that utilize investment strategies that invest over both long-term investment and short-term investment horizons.

Defined contribution plans       We have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) covering certain domestic full-time employees with more than one year of service. The ESOP works in conjunction with the defined benefit pension
plan. Employees are entitled to the higher of their benefit under the ESOP or such defined benefit pension plan at retirement. Benefits payable under the defined benefit pension plan are offset by the equivalent value of benefits earned under the
ESOP.      At Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, the ESOP owned 6.9 million and 7.1 million shares of our stock, respectively. The fair
value of total ESOP assets was $181 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $146 million at Dec. 31, 2011. Contributions are made equal to required principal and interest payments on borrowings by the ESOP. There were no contributions and no ESOP related
expense in 2012, 2011 or 2010.      We have defined contribution plans, excluding the ESOP, for which we recognized a cost of $180 million in
2012, $182 million in 2011 and $163 million in 2010.      The Benefits Investment Committee appointed Fiduciary Counselors, Inc. to serve as the
independent fiduciary to (i) make certain fiduciary decisions related to the continued prudence of offering the common stock of BNY Mellon or its affiliates as an investment option under the plans other than with

168     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

respect to plan sponsor decisions, and (ii) select and monitor any managed investments (active or passive, including mutual funds) of BNY Mellon or its affiliates to be offered to
participants as investment options under the Plan.   
      Note 20 Company financial information    
   Our bank subsidiaries are subject to dividend limitations under the Federal Reserve Act, as well as national and state banking laws.
Under these statutes, prior regulatory consent is required for dividends in any year that would exceed the bank s net profits for such year combined with retained net profits for the prior two years. Additionally, such bank subsidiaries may not
declare dividends in excess of net profits on hand, as defined, after deducting the amount by which the principal amount of all loans, on which interest is past due for a period of six months or more, exceeds the allowance for credit losses.
     The payment of dividends also is limited by minimum capital requirements imposed on banks. As of Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon s bank
subsidiaries exceeded these minimum requirements.      Subsequent to Dec. 31, 2012, our bank subsidiaries could declare dividends to the Parent of
approximately $2.7 billion without the need for a regulatory waiver. Including the impact of the approximately $850 million charge related to the Feb. 11, 2013 U.S. Tax Court ruling, dividend paying capacity at our bank subsidiaries would decrease
to $1.9 billion. In addition, at Dec. 31, 2012, non-bank subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of approximately $1.4 billion.      The bank
subsidiaries declared dividends of $679 million in 2012, $156 million in 2011, $239 million in 2010. The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued additional guidelines that require bank holding companies and national banks to continually
evaluate the level of cash dividends in relation to their respective operating income, capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.      The Federal Reserve Board policy with respect to the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a rate of
cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the

holding company s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board can also prohibit a dividend if payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound
banking practice. Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends would require approval from the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout
ratios exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.      On Nov. 22, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued
a final rule requiring U.S. bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, like BNY Mellon, to submit annual capital plans for review. The Federal Reserve will evaluate the bank holding companies  capital
adequacy, internal capital adequacy assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.      BNY Mellon and other affected BHCs may pay dividends, repurchase stock, and make other capital distributions only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to
which the Federal Reserve has not objected. The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and maintain a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to
risk-weighted assets of at least 5% on a  pro forma  basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The capital plan rules also stipulate that a covered BHC may not make a
capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. As part of this process, BNY Mellon also
provides the Federal Reserve with estimates of the composition and levels of regulatory capital, risk-weighted assets and other measures under Basel III under an identified scenario. BNY Mellon s most recent capital plan was submitted to the
Federal Reserve on Jan. 7, 2013.      The Federal Reserve has indicated that it expects to publish its objection or non-objection to the capital
plan and proposed capital actions, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, no later than March 14, 2013.      The Federal Reserve
Act limits and requires collateral for extensions of credit by our insured subsidiary

BNY
Mellon     169   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

banks to BNY Mellon and certain of its non-bank affiliates. Also, there are restrictions on the amounts of investments by such banks in stock and other securities of BNY Mellon and such
affiliates, and restrictions on the acceptance of their securities as collateral for loans by such banks. Extensions of credit by the banks to each of our affiliates are limited to 10% of such bank s regulatory capital, and in the aggregate for
BNY Mellon and all such affiliates to 20%, and collateral must be between 100% and 130% of the amount of the credit, depending on the type of collateral.      Our insured subsidiary banks are required to maintain reserve balances with Federal Reserve Banks under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. Required balances averaged $5.4 billion and $4.3 billion
for the years 2012 and 2011, respectively.      In the event of impairment of the capital stock of one of the Parent s national banks or The
Bank of New York Mellon, the Parent, as the banks  stockholder, could be required to pay such deficiency.      The Parent guarantees the debt
issued by Mellon Funding Corporation, a wholly-owned financing subsidiary of the Company. The Parent also guarantees committed and uncommitted lines of credit of Pershing LLC and Pershing Limited subsidiaries. The Parent guarantees described above
are full and unconditional and contain the standard provisions relating to parent guarantees of subsidiary debt. Additionally, the Parent guarantees or indemnifies obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries as needed. Generally there are no stated
notional amounts included in these indemnifications and the contingencies triggering the obligation for indemnification are not expected to occur. As a result, we are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these indemnifications.
However, we

believe the possibility is remote that we will have to make any material payment under these guarantees and indemnifications.      The Parent s condensed financial statements are as follows:       Condensed Income Statement The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)        

(a)   
   Includes the results of discontinued operations.

170     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Condensed Balance Sheet The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)   

Condensed Statement of Cash Flows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)   

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.

BNY
Mellon     171   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 21 Fair value measurement    
   The guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement  included in ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received
to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. It establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements
based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and expands the disclosures about instruments measured at fair value. ASC 820 requires consideration of a company s own creditworthiness
when valuing liabilities.      The standard provides a consistent definition of fair value, which focuses on exit price in an orderly transaction
(that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, a
change in valuation technique or the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. In such instances, determining the price at which willing market participants would transact at the measurement date under current market conditions
depends on the facts and circumstances and requires the use of significant judgment. The objective is to determine from weighted indicators of fair value a reasonable point within the range that is most representative of fair value under current
market conditions.       Determination of fair value       Following is a description of our valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value. We have established processes for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted
market prices in active markets, where available. For financial instruments where quotes from recent exchange transactions are not available, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis, comparison to similar instruments, and the
use of financial models. Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. Model-based pricing uses inputs of observable prices, where available, for interest rates, foreign exchange rates,
option volatilities and other factors. Models are benchmarked and validated by an independent internal risk management function. Our valuation process

takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns, and observability of model parameters. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that
financial instruments are recorded at fair value.      Most derivative contracts are valued using internally developed models which are calibrated
to observable market data and employ standard market pricing theory for their valuations. An initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on a AA credit curve. Then, to arrive at a fair
value that incorporates counter-party credit risk, a credit adjustment is made to these results by discounting each trade s expected exposures to the counterparty using the counterparty s credit spreads, as implied by the credit default
swap market. We also adjust expected liabilities to the counterparty using BNY Mellon s own credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative position is sensitive to the current changes
in our own credit spreads as well as those of our counterparties.      In certain cases, recent prices may not be observable for instruments that
trade in inactive or less active markets. Upon evaluating the uncertainty in valuing financial instruments subject to liquidity issues, we make an adjustment to their value. The determination of the liquidity adjustment includes the availability of
external quotes, the time since the latest available quote and the price volatility of the instrument.      Certain parameters in some financial
models are not directly observable and, therefore, are based on management s estimates and judgments. These financial instruments are normally traded less actively. We apply valuation adjustments to mitigate the possibility of error and
revision in the model based estimate value. Examples include products where parameters such as correlation and recovery rates are unobservable.   
  The methods described above for instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets may produce a current fair value calculation that may not be
indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. We believe our methods of determining fair value are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies or different
assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value.   

172     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Valuation hierarchy       ASC 820 established a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date.
The three levels are described below.       Level 1 : Inputs to the valuation methodology are recent quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical
assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity securities and derivative financial instruments actively traded on exchanges and U.S. Treasury securities that are actively traded in highly liquid
over-the-counter markets.       Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, for example, quoted prices for similar assets and
liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable or can be corroborated, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the
financial instrument. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt instruments that are traded less frequently than exchange traded securities and derivative instruments whose model inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by market
observable data. Examples in this category are certain variable and fixed rate agency and non-agency securities, corporate debt securities and derivative contracts.       Level 3 : Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. Examples in this category include interests in certain securitized financial assets,
certain private equity investments, and derivative contracts that are highly structured or long-dated.      A financial instrument s
categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.   
  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such
instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Securities       Where quoted prices are available in an active market, we classify the securities within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities include both long and

short positions. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government bonds, money market mutual funds and exchange-traded equities.      If quoted market prices are not available, we estimate fair values using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. Examples of such instruments,
which would generally be classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy, include certain agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, sovereign debt, corporate bonds and foreign covered bonds.
     For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on
pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency that employ financial models or obtain comparison to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.      Specifically, the pricing sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and
speed of prepayment for the types of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current marketplace and classify such securities as Level 2. Pricing sources discontinue pricing any
specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price.      In addition, we
have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS and other types of securities such as sovereign debt. The pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major inter-dealer brokers.
The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the inter-dealer brokers.      For securities with
bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is analyzed and that information is included in the fair value assessment for such securities.      In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to the valuation, we classify those securities in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities classified within Level
3 primarily include other debt securities and securities of state and political subdivisions.   

BNY
Mellon     173   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

At Dec. 31, 2012, more than 99% of our securities were valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of
price transparency. Less than 1% of our securities were priced based on economic models and non-binding dealer quotes, and are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.       Consolidated collateralized loan obligations       BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated
CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market. The returns to the note holders are solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets. Based on the structure of the CLOs, the valuation of the
assets is attributable to the senior note holders. Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement as investment income and interest of investment management fund note holders, respectively.   
   Derivatives       We classify
exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include exchanged-traded equity and foreign exchange options. Since few other classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, most of
our derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters and we classify them in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Such derivatives include basic swaps and options and
credit default swaps.      Derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable market parameters in markets that lack two-way flow are
classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include long-dated interest rate or currency swaps and options, where parameters may be unobservable for longer maturities; and certain products, where correlation risk is unobservable. The
fair value of these derivatives compose less than 1% of our derivative financial instruments. Additional disclosures of derivative instruments are provided in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments       Where quoted market prices are not available, we generally base the fair value of loans and unfunded lending-related commitments on observable market prices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit
derivatives and loans with similar characteristics. If

observable market prices are not available, we base the fair value on estimated cash flows adjusted for credit risk which are discounted using an interest rate appropriate for the maturity of the
applicable loans or the unfunded lending-related commitments.      Unrealized gains and losses, if any, on unfunded lending-related commitments
carried at fair value are classified in Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively. Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments carried at fair value are generally classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.   
   Seed capital       In our Investment
Management business we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for institutions and other investors; as part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. Seed
capital is included in other assets. When applicable, we value seed capital based on the published NAV of the fund. We include funds in which ownership interests in the fund are publicly traded in an active market and institutional funds in which
investors trade in and out daily in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. We include open-end funds where investors are allowed to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than daily and where our interest in the fund contains no
other rights or obligations in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. However, we generally include investments in funds that allow investors to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than monthly in Level 3, unless actual
redemption prices are observable.      For other types of investments in funds, we consider all of the rights and obligations inherent in our
ownership interest, including the reported NAV as well as other factors that affect the fair value of our interest in the fund. To the extent the NAV measurements reported for the investments are based on unobservable inputs or include other rights
and obligations (e.g., obligation to meet cash calls), we generally classify them in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.       Certain interests
in securitizations       For certain interests in securitizations which are classified in securities available-for-sale, trading assets and
long-term debt, we use discounted cash flow models which generally include assumptions of

174     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

projected finance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses, prepayment assumptions and estimates of payments to third-party investors. When available, we compare our
fair value estimates and assumptions to market activity and to the actual results of the securitized portfolio.       Private equity investments
      Our Other segment includes holdings of nonpublic private equity investment through funds managed by third-party investment managers. We
value private equity investments initially based upon the transaction price, which we subsequently adjust to reflect expected exit values as evidenced by financing and sale transactions with third parties or through ongoing reviews by the investment
managers.      Private equity investments also include publicly held equity investments, generally obtained through the initial public offering of
privately held equity investments. These equity investments are often held in a partnership structure. Publicly held investments

are marked-to-market at the quoted public value less adjustments for regulatory or contractual sales restrictions or adjustments to reflect the difficulty in selling a partnership interest.
     Discounts for restrictions are quantified by analyzing the length of the restriction period and the volatility of the equity security.
Publicly held private equity investments are primarily classified in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.      The following tables present the
financial instruments carried at fair value at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, by caption on the consolidated balance sheet and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described above). We have included credit ratings information in certain of the tables
because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings classifications could result in increased risk for us. There were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2012.

BNY
Mellon     175   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash
collateral. Netting cannot be disaggregated by product.      

(b)   
   Includes certain interests in securitizations.      

(c)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      

(d)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets and certain interests in securitizations.      

(e)   
   The Level 1, 2 and 3 fair values of derivative assets and derivative liabilities are presented on a gross basis.      

(f)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital, a brokerage account, and derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      

(g)   
   Includes derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      
      
  176     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash
collateral. Netting cannot be disaggregated by product.      

(b)   
   Includes certain interests in securitizations.      

(c)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      

(d)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets and certain interests in securitizations.      

(e)   
   The Level 1, 2 and 3 fair values of derivative assets and derivative liabilities are presented on a gross basis.      

(f)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital, a brokerage account, and derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      

(g)   
   Includes derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      
         BNY
Mellon     177   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   At Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, foreign covered bonds were included in Level 1 and Level 2 in the valuation hierarchy. All other assets in the table are Level 2
assets in the valuation hierarchy.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      
      
  178     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements       Our classification of a financial instrument in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is based on the significance of the unobservable factors to the overall fair value measurement. However, these
instruments generally include other observable components that are actively quoted or validated to third-party sources; accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due to observable parameters as well as the
unobservable parameters in our valuation methodologies. We also frequently manage the risks of Level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivatives positions that are

Level 1 or 2 instruments which are not included in the table; accordingly, the gains or losses below do not reflect the effect of our risk management activities related to the Level 3
instruments.      The Company has a Level 3 Pricing Committee which validates the valuation techniques used in determining the fair value of Level
3 assets and liabilities.      The tables below include a roll forward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011
(including the change in fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.   

(a)   
   Derivative assets are reported on a gross basis.      

(b)   
   Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for
the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).      

(c)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(d)   
   Reported in investment and other income.      

(e)   
   Reported in income from consolidated investment management funds.          

Fair value measurements for liabilities using significant unobservable inputs for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012   

Trading liabilities  

Total liabilities  

(in millions)   
      
  Derivative liabilities  (a)   

Fair value at Dec. 31, 2011   
      
  $  
  314  

$  
  314  

Transfers out of Level 3   

(8  
  )   

(8  
  )    
 
    Total (gains) or losses for the period:   

Included in earnings (or changes in net liabilities)   

(82    
  )  (b)    

(82  
  )    
 
     Fair value at Dec. 31, 2012    
      
   $   
   224   

$   
   224   

Change in unrealized (gains) or losses for the period included in earnings (or changes in
net assets) for liabilities held at the end of the reporting period   
      
  $  
  (30  
  )   
     
  $  
  (30  
  )    

(a)   
   Derivative liabilities are reported on a gross basis.      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      
         BNY
Mellon     179   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Derivative assets are reported on a gross basis.      

(b)   
   Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for
the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).      

(c)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(d)   
   Reported in investment and other income.          

(a)   
   Derivative liabilities are reported on a gross basis.      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(c)   
   Reported in investment and other income.      
      
  180     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis    
  Under certain circumstances, we make adjustments to fair value our assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments although they are not
measured at fair value on an ongoing basis. An example would be the recording of an impairment of an asset.   

The following table presents the financial instruments carried on the consolidated balance sheet by caption
and by level in the fair value hierarchy as of Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the years ended Dec. 31, 2012 and
2011.  

(a)   
   During the years ended Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of these loans was reduced $20 million and $32 million, based on the fair value of the underlying
collateral as allowed by ASC 310, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a loan, with an offset to the allowance for credit losses.      

(b)   
   Includes other assets received in satisfaction of debt and loans held for sale. Loans held for sale are carried on the balance sheet at the lower of cost or market
value.      
         BNY
Mellon     181   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Level 3 unobservable inputs       The following tables present the unobservable inputs used in valuation of assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy.   

Quantitative information about Level 3 fair value measurements of assets   

(dollars in millions)   
      
     Fair value at   
   Dec. 31, 2012    

Valuation techniques   

Unobservable input   

Range   

Measured on a recurring basis:     

Available-for-sale securities:   

State and political subdivisions   
      
   $   
   45   

Discounted cash flow  

Expected credit loss  

6%-36%  

Trading assets:   

Debt and equity instruments:   

Structured debt   

28   

Option pricing model  (a)   

Correlation risk Long-term foreign exchange volatility  

15%     11%-17%   

Distressed debt   

20   

Discounted cash flow  

Expected maturity     Credit spreads   

2-15 years 200-950 bps  

Derivative assets:   

Interest rate:   

Structured foreign exchange swaptions   

19  

Option pricing model  (a)   

Correlation risk     Long-term foreign exchange
volatility   

0%-25% 11%-17%  

Foreign exchange contracts:   

Long-term foreign exchange options   

1   

Option pricing model  (a)   

Long-term foreign exchange volatility  

18%  

Equity:   

Equity options   

38   

Option pricing model  (a)   

Long-term equity volatility  

23%-30%  

Measured on a nonrecurring basis:     

Loans   

23  

Discounted cash flows  

Timing of sale     Cap rate     Cost to complete/sell   

0-18 months 8%     0%-30%   

Quantitative information about Level 3 fair value measurements of liabilities   

(dollars in millions)   
      
     Fair value at   
   Dec. 31, 2012    

Valuation techniques   

Unobservable input   

Range   

Measured on a recurring basis:     

Trading liabilities:   

Derivative liabilities:   

Interest rate:   

Structured foreign exchange swaptions   
      
  $  
  168  

Option pricing model  (a)   

Correlation risk     Long-term foreign exchange
volatility   

0%-25% 11%-17%  

Equity:   

Equity options   

56  

Option pricing model  (a)   

Long-term equity volatility  

23%-32%  

(a)   
   The option pricing model uses market inputs such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and volatility to calculate the fair value of the option.

Estimated fair value of financial instruments    
  The carrying amounts of our financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methods see Note
1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis. However, active markets do not exist for a significant portion of these instruments.

For financial instruments where quoted prices from identical assets and liabilities in active markets do not exist, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis and comparison
to similar instruments. Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. Other judgments would result in different fair values. The assumptions we used at Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31,
2011 include discount   

182     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

rates ranging principally from 0.01% to 4.86%. The fair value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented throughout this report.
     A summary of the practices used for determining fair value and the respective level in the valuation hierarchy for financial assets and
liabilities not recorded at fair value is as follows.       Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and
interest-bearing deposits with banks       The estimated fair value of interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central
banks is equal to the book value as these interest-bearing deposits are generally considered cash equivalents. These instruments are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. The estimated fair value of interest-bearing deposits with
banks is generally determined using discounted cash flows and duration of the instrument to maturity. The primary inputs used to value these transactions are interest rates based on current LIBOR market rates and time to maturity. Interest-bearing
deposits with banks are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.       Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements       The estimated fair value of federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements is based on inputs such as
interest rates and tenors. Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.       Securities held-to-maturity       Where quoted prices are available in an active market for
identical assets and liabilities, we classify the securities as Level 1 within the valuation hierarchy. Securities are defined as both long and short positions. Level 1 securities include U.S. Treasury securities.   
  If quoted market prices are not available for identical assets and liabilities, we estimate fair value using pricing models, quoted prices of securities
with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. Examples of such instruments, which would generally be classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy, include certain agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial
mortgage-backed securities and state and political subdivision

securities. For securities where quotes from active markets are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price
transparency that employ financial models or obtain comparison to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.   
  Specifically, the pricing sources obtain active market prices for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure)
and ascertain variables such as discount rate and speed of prepayment for the types of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current marketplace and classify such securities
as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.       Loans       For residential mortgage loans, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analysis, adjusting where appropriate for prepayment estimates, using interest rates currently being offered for loans
with similar terms and maturities to borrowers. The estimated fair value of margin loans and overdrafts is equal to the book value due to the short-term nature of these assets. The estimated fair value of other types of loans is determined using
discounted cash flows. Inputs include current LIBOR market rates adjusted for credit spreads. These loans are generally classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.       Other financial assets       Other financial assets include cash, the Federal Reserve Bank
stock and accrued interest receivable. Cash is classified as Level 1 within the valuation hierarchy. The Federal Reserve Bank stock is not redeemable or transferable. The estimated fair value of the Federal Reserve Bank stock is based on the issue
price and is classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. Accrued interest receivable is generally short-term. As a result, book value is considered to equal fair value. Accrued interest receivable is included as Level 2 within the
valuation hierarchy.       Noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing deposits       Interest-bearing deposits are comprised of money market rate and demand deposits, savings deposits and time deposits. Except for time deposits, book value is considered to equal fair value for these
deposits due to their short duration to maturity or payable on demand feature. The fair value of interest-bearing time

BNY
Mellon     183   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

deposits is determined using discounted cash flow analysis. Inputs primarily consist of current LIBOR market rates and time to maturity. For all noninterest-bearing deposits, book value is
considered to equal fair value as a result of the short duration of the deposit. Interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing deposits are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.       Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements       The estimated
fair value of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements is based on inputs such as interest rates and tenors. Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 within the
valuation hierarchy.       Payables to customers and broker-dealers       The estimated fair value of payables to customers and broker-dealers is equal to the book value due to demand feature of the payables to customers and broker-dealers and are classified as Level 2 within
the valuation hierarchy.   
 
    Borrowings       Borrowings primarily consist of overdrafts of subcustodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses, commercial paper and accrued interest payable. The estimated fair value of overdrafts of
subcustodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses is considered to equal book value as a result of the short duration of the overdrafts. Overdrafts are typically repaid within two days. The estimated fair value of our commercial
paper is based on discount and duration of the commercial paper. Our commercial paper matures within 397 days from date of issue and is not redeemable prior to maturity or subject to voluntary prepayment. Our commercial paper is included in Level 2
of the valuation hierarchy. Accrued interest payable is generally short-term. As a result, book value is considered to equal fair value. Accrued interest payable is included as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.   
   Long-term debt       The estimated fair
value of long-term debt is based on current rates for instruments of the same remaining maturity or quoted market prices for the same or similar issues. Long-term debt is classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy.

184     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The table below summarizes the carrying amount of the hedged financial instruments, the notional amount of
the hedge and the unrealized gain (loss) (estimated fair value) of the derivatives.       
 
      Note 22 Fair value option    
   ASC 825 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities,
unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments.      The following table presents the assets and liabilities, by type, of consolidated
investment management funds recorded at fair value.      
    BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market. The
returns to the note holders are solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets. Mark-to-market best

reflects the limited interest BNY Mellon has in the economic performance of the consolidated CLOs. Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement as
investment income (loss) of consolidated investment management funds.      We have elected the fair value option on $240 million of long-term debt
in connection with ASC 810. At Dec. 31, 2012, the fair value of this long-term debt was $345 million. The long-term debt is valued using observable market inputs and is included in Level 2 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.   
  The following table presents the changes in fair value of the long-term debt included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in the consolidated
income statement.       

(a)   
   The change in fair value of the long-term debt is approximately offset by an economic hedge included in trading.      
      Note 23 Commitments and contingent liabilities    
   In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding which are not reflected in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.      Our significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest
rate risk management products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, securities lending indemnifications and support agreements. We assume these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the
ability to meet credit and liquidity needs and to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange and interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet. Our off-balance sheet
risks are managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance sheet risks. Significant industry concentrations related to credit exposure at Dec. 31, 2012 are disclosed in the financial institutions

BNY
Mellon     185   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

portfolio exposure table and the commercial portfolio exposure table below.       
     
    Major concentrations in securities lending are primarily to broker-dealers and are generally collateralized with cash.
Securities lending transactions are discussed below.      The following table presents a summary of our off-balance sheet credit risks, net of
participations.       

Included in lending commitments are facilities that provide liquidity for variable rate tax-exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit
approval for these facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax-exempt issuer and considers factors other than the financial strength of the monoline insurer.

The total potential loss on undrawn lending commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and
securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral.   
  Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
A summary of lending commitment maturities is as follows: $9.0 billion in less than one year, $22.2 billion in one to five years and $0.1 billion over five years.      Standby letters of credit ( SBLC ) principally support corporate obligations. As shown in the off-balance sheet credit risks table, the maximum potential exposure of SBLCs was $7.2 billion at
Dec 31, 2012 and $6.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, and includes $781 million and $485 million that were collateralized with cash and securities at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. At Dec. 31, 2012, $4.1 billion of the SBLCs will expire within one
year and $3.1 billion in one to five years.      We must recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit and foreign and other
guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. As required by ASC 460    Guarantees , the fair value of the liability, which was recorded with a corresponding asset in other assets, was
estimated as the present value of contractual customer fees.      The estimated liability for losses related to these commitments and SBLCs, if
any, is included in the allowance for lending-related commitments. The allowance for lending-related commitments was $121 million at Dec. 31, 2012 and $103 million at Dec. 31, 2011.      Payment/performance risk of SBLCs is monitored using both historical performance and internal ratings criteria. BNY Mellon s historical experience is that SBLCs typically expire without being funded.
SBLCs below investment grade are monitored closely for payment/performance risk. The table below shows SBLCs by investment grade:       

186     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

A commercial letter of credit is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for
the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer. Although the commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction. As a result,
the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commercial letters of credit totaled $219 million at Dec. 31, 2012 compared with $437 million at Dec. 31, 2011.   
  A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security (typically through an
agent, in our case, The Bank of New York Mellon), to a borrower, usually a broker-dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which normally matures in less than 90 days.   
  We typically lend securities with indemnification against borrower default. We generally require the borrower to provide cash collateral with a value of
102% of the fair value of the securities borrowed, which is monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk. Market risk can also arise in securities lending transactions. These risks are controlled through policies limiting the level of risk
that can be undertaken. Securities lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly rated counterparties. Securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $253 billion at Dec. 31, 2012 and $276 billion at Dec. 31,
2011. We recorded $198 million of fee revenue from securities lending transactions in 2012 compared with $183 million in 2011.      We expect many
of these guarantees to expire without the need to advance any cash. The revenue associated with guarantees frequently depends on the credit rating of the obligor and the structure of the transaction, including collateral, if any.   
  At Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon had no exposure to support agreements in excess of the reserve. This compares with $63 million at Dec. 31, 2011.   
   Operating leases       Net rent expense for
premises and equipment was $313 million in 2012, $350 million in 2011 and $314 million in 2010.

At Dec. 31, 2012, we were obligated under various noncancelable lease agreements, some of which provide for
additional rents based upon real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance and for various renewal options. A summary of the future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, net of related sublease revenue, is as follows:
2013 $286 million; 2014 $250 million; 2015 $219 million; 2016 $203 million; 2017 $188 million; and 2018 and thereafter $744 million.       Indemnification Arrangements       In connection with certain offshore tax exempt funds, that
we manage in the UK, we may be liable to indemnify the funds for income tax payments the funds may be required to make in the UK. Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs ( HRMC ) has asserted that some of these funds may be considered
resident in the UK and liable for income taxes starting in 1998. The Company is continuing discussions with HMRC regarding the funds. At the present time, we do not believe any indemnity payments related to the funds are probable or
estimable.      We have provided standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and
commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing financial services that are not otherwise included above. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of
these risks. Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in these indemnifications and the contingencies triggering the obligation for indemnification are not expected to occur. Furthermore, often counterparties to these transactions
provide us with comparable indemnifications. We are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these indemnifications for several reasons. In addition to the lack of a stated or notional amount in a majority of such indemnifications,
we are unable to predict the nature of events that would trigger indemnification or the level of indemnification for a certain event. We believe, however, that the possibility that we will have to make any material payments for these
indemnifications is remote. At Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, we had no material liabilities under these arrangements.

BNY
Mellon     187   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Clearing and Settlement Exchanges       We are a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities, or other transactions settle. Certain of these industry
clearing and settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other members do not honor their obligations. We believe the likelihood that a clearing or settlement
exchange (of which we are a member) would become insolvent is remote. Additionally, certain settlement exchanges have implemented loss allocation policies which enable the exchange to allocate settlement losses to the members of the exchange. It is
not possible to quantify such mark-to-market loss until the loss occurs. In addition, any ancillary costs that occur as a result of any mark-to-market loss cannot be quantified. At Dec. 31, 2012 and Dec. 31, 2011, we have not recorded any material
liabilities under these arrangements.       Legal proceedings       In the ordinary course of business, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are routinely named as defendants in or made parties to pending and potential legal actions and regulatory matters. Claims for
significant monetary damages are often asserted in many of these legal actions, while claims for disgorgement, penalties and/or other remedial sanctions may be sought in regulatory matters. It is inherently difficult to predict the eventual outcomes
of such matters given their complexity and the particular facts and circumstances at issue in each of these matters. However, on the basis of our current knowledge and understanding, we do not believe that judgments or settlements, if any, arising
from these matters (either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves and insurance coverage) will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of BNY Mellon, although they
could have a material effect on net income in a given period.      In view of the inherent unpredictability of outcomes in litigation and
regulatory matters, particularly where (i) the damages sought are substantial or indeterminate, (ii) the proceedings are in the early stages, or (iii) the matters involve novel legal theories or a large number of parties, as a matter
of course there is considerable uncertainty surrounding the timing or ultimate resolution of litigation and regulatory matters, including a possible eventual loss, fine, penalty or business impact, if any, associated with each such matter. In
accordance with applicable

accounting guidance, BNY Mellon establishes accruals for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters proceed to a stage where they present loss contingencies that are both probable and
reasonably estimable. In such cases, there may be a possible exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. BNY Mellon will continue to monitor such matters for developments that could affect the amount of the accrual, and will adjust the
accrual amount as appropriate. If the loss contingency in question is not both probable and reasonably estimable, BNY Mellon does not establish an accrual and the matter will continue to be monitored for any developments that would make the loss
contingency both probable and reasonably estimable. BNY Mellon believes that its accruals for legal proceedings are appropriate and, in the aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial position of BNY Mellon, although future accruals
could have a material effect on net income in a given period.      For certain of those matters described herein for which a loss contingency may,
in the future, be reasonably possible (whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability), BNY Mellon is currently unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss. For those matters where BNY Mellon is
able to estimate a reasonably possible loss, exclusive of matters described in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, subject to the accounting and reporting requirements of ASC 740 (FASB Interpretation 48), the aggregate range
of such reasonably possible loss is up to $470 million in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters.      The following
describes certain judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings involving BNY Mellon:       Sentinel Matters    
  As previously disclosed, on Jan. 18, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon filed a proof of claim in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Sentinel
Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ) pending in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois, seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at
The Bank of New York Mellon. On March 3, 2008, the bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary complaint against The Bank of New York Mellon seeking to disallow The Bank of New York Mellon s claim and seeking damages for allegedly aiding
and abetting Sentinel insiders in misappropriating customer assets and improperly

188     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

using those assets as collateral for the loan. In a decision dated Nov. 3, 2010, the court found for The Bank of New York Mellon and against the bankruptcy trustee, holding that The Bank of New
York Mellon s loan to Sentinel is valid, fully secured and not subject to equitable subordination. The bankruptcy trustee appealed this decision, and on Aug. 9, 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit issued a
decision affirming the trial court s judgment. On Sept. 7, 2012, the bankruptcy trustee filed a petition for rehearing on the fraudulent transfer portion of the opinion and, on Nov. 30, 2012, the Court of Appeals withdrew its opinion
and vacated its judgment. The appeal remains under consideration.      As previously disclosed, in November 2009, the Division of Enforcement of
the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) indicated that it is considering a recommendation to the CFTC that it file a civil enforcement action against The Bank of New York Mellon for possible violations of the Commodity
Exchange Act and CFTC regulations in connection with its relationship to Sentinel. The Bank of New York Mellon responded in writing to the CFTC on Jan. 29, 2010 and provided an explanation as to why an enforcement action is unwarranted.   
   Securities Lending Matters       As previously disclosed, BNY Mellon or its affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits initiated by participants in BNY Mellon s securities lending program, which is a part of
BNY Mellon s Investment Services business. The lawsuits were filed on various dates from 2009 to 2012, and are currently pending in courts in New York, South Carolina and North Carolina and in commercial court in London. The complaints assert
contractual, statutory, and common law claims, including claims for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. The plaintiffs allege losses in connection with the investment of securities lending collateral, including losses related to investments in
Sigma Finance Inc. ( Sigma ), Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and certain asset-backed securities, and seek damages as to those losses. Two of the pending cases seek to proceed as class actions.   
  On Oct. 25, 2012, the court entered final approval of a previously-announced settlement of the Oklahoma class action lawsuit concerning Sigma losses.
Under the terms of the settlement, The Bank of New York Mellon agreed to pay $280 million in exchange for a complete release of claims in the class action.

Matters Relating To Bernard L. Madoff       As previously disclosed, on May 11, 2010, the New York State Attorney General commenced a civil lawsuit against Ivy Asset Management LLC ( Ivy ), a subsidiary of BNY Mellon that manages
primarily funds-of-hedge-funds, and two of its former officers in New York state court. The lawsuit alleges that Ivy, in connection with its role as sub-advisor to investment managers whose clients invested with Madoff, did not disclose certain
material facts about Madoff. The complaint seeks an accounting of compensation received from January 1997 to the present by the Ivy defendants in connection with the Madoff investments, and unspecified damages, including restitution, disgorgement,
costs and attorneys  fees.      As previously disclosed, on Oct. 21, 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor commenced a civil lawsuit against
Ivy, two of its former officers, and others in federal court in the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit alleges that Ivy violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) by failing to disclose certain material facts
about Madoff to investment managers subadvised by Ivy whose clients included employee benefit plan investors. The complaint seeks disgorgement and damages.      As previously disclosed, Ivy or its affiliates have been named in a number of civil lawsuits filed beginning Jan. 27, 2009 relating to certain investment funds that allege losses due to the Madoff
investments. Ivy acted as a sub-advisor to the investment managers of some of those funds. Plaintiffs assert various causes of action including securities and common-law fraud. Certain of the cases have been certified as class actions and/or assert
derivative claims on behalf of the funds. Most of the cases have been consolidated in two actions in federal court in the Southern District of New York, with certain cases filed in New York State Supreme Court for New York and Nassau counties.
     On Nov. 13, 2012, Ivy entered into a settlement agreement with the New York State Attorney General, the U.S. Department of Labor, and the
civil lawsuit plaintiffs that would settle all claims for $210 million. The settlement is subject to judicial approval, which the various courts have preliminarily given. A hearing on final approval is scheduled for March 15, 2013.   
  On Dec. 8, 2010, the Trustee overseeing the Madoff liquidation sued many of the same defendants in bankruptcy court in New York, seeking to avoid
withdrawals from Madoff investments made by various funds-of-funds (including six funds-of-funds

BNY
Mellon     189   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

managed by Ivy). On Oct. 12, 2012, Ivy and the Trustee entered into a written settlement agreement, agreeing to settle all claims for $2 million. The settlement was approved by the
Bankruptcy Court on Dec. 4, 2012.       Medical Capital Litigations       As previously disclosed, The Bank of New York Mellon has been named as a defendant in a number of class actions and non-class actions brought by numerous plaintiffs in connection with its role as
indenture trustee for debt issued by affiliates of Medical Capital Corporation. The actions, filed in late 2009 and currently pending in federal court in the Central District of California, allege that The Bank of New York Mellon breached its
fiduciary and contractual obligations to the holders of the underlying securities, and seek unspecified damages. On Dec. 21, 2012, The Bank of New York Mellon entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs and the Federal Equity
Receiver for Medical Capital Corporation and its affiliates. Under the terms of the settlement, The Bank of New York Mellon will make a payment of $114 million in exchange for a complete release of claims. The settlement is subject to court
approval.       Foreign Exchange Matters       As previously disclosed, beginning in December 2009, government authorities have been conducting inquiries seeking information relating primarily to standing instruction foreign exchange transactions in
connection with custody services BNY Mellon provides to public pension plans and certain other custody clients. BNY Mellon is cooperating with these inquiries.      In addition, in early 2011, as previously disclosed, the Virginia Attorney General s Office and the Florida Attorney General s Office each intervened in a  qui tam  lawsuit pending in its
jurisdiction, and, on Aug. 11, 2011, filed superseding complaints. On Nov. 9, 2012, the Virginia court, which had previously dismissed all of the claims against BNY Mellon, dismissed the lawsuit with prejudice by agreement of the parties. On Oct. 4,
2011, the New York Attorney General s Office, the New York City Comptroller and various city pension and benefit funds filed a lawsuit asserting, claims under the Martin Act and state and city false claims acts. Also, on Oct. 4, 2011, the
United States Department of Justice ( DOJ ) filed a civil lawsuit seeking civil penalties under 12 U.S.C. Section 1833a and injunctive relief under 18 U.S.C. Section 1345 based on alleged ongoing violations of

18 U.S.C. Sections 1341 and 1343 (mail and wire fraud). On Jan. 17, 2012, the court approved a partial settlement resolving the DOJ s claim for injunctive relief. In October 2011, several
political subdivisions of the state of California intervened in a  qui tam  lawsuit that was removed to federal district court in California. On March 30, 2012, the court dismissed certain of plaintiffs  claims, including all claims
under the California False Claims Act. Certain plaintiffs have since filed an amended complaint. Several plaintiffs also had their claims dismissed for improper venue and one refiled on Sept. 5, 2012 in a different California federal district court.
On Oct. 26, 2011, the Massachusetts Securities Division filed an Administrative Complaint against BNY Mellon.      BNY Mellon has also been named
as a defendant in several putative class action federal lawsuits filed on various dates in 2011 and 2012. The complaints, which assert claims including breach of contract and ERISA violations, all allege that the prices BNY Mellon charged for
standing instruction foreign exchange transactions executed in connection with custody services provided by BNY Mellon were improper. In addition, BNY Mellon has been named as a nominal defendant in several derivative lawsuits filed 2011 and 2012 in
state and federal court in New York. BNY Mellon has also been named in a  qui tam  lawsuit filed on May 22, 2012 in Massachusetts state court. To the extent these lawsuits are pending in federal court, they have been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes in federal court in New York.       Lyondell Litigation       As previously disclosed, in an action filed in New York State Supreme Court for New York County, on Sept. 14, 2010, plaintiffs as holders of debt issued by Basell AF in 2005 allege that The Bank of New
York Mellon, as indenture trustee, breached its contractual and fiduciary obligations by executing an intercreditor agreement in 2007 in connection with Basell s acquisition of Lyondell Chemical Company. Plaintiffs are seeking damages for their
alleged losses resulting from the execution of the 2007 intercreditor agreement that allowed the company to increase the amount of its senior debt.       Tax Litigation       As previously disclosed, on Aug. 17, 2009, BNY Mellon received a Statutory
Notice of Deficiency disallowing tax benefits for the 2001 and 2002 tax years in connection with a 2001 transaction that involved the payment of UK corporate income taxes that were credited against BNY Mellon s U.S.

190     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

corporate income tax liability. On Nov. 10, 2009, BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court contesting the disallowance of the benefits. Trial was held from April 16 to
May 17, 2012. On Feb. 11, 2013, the Tax Court upheld the IRS s Notice of Deficiency and disallowed BNY Mellon s tax credits and associated transaction costs. BNY Mellon will appeal the Tax Court s ruling. See Note 13 of the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.       Mortgage-Securitization Trusts Proceeding    
  As previously disclosed, The Bank of New York Mellon as trustee is the petitioner in a legal proceeding filed in New York State Supreme Court, New York
County on June 29, 2011, seeking approval of a proposed settlement involving Bank of America Corporation and bondholders in certain Countrywide residential mortgage-securitization trusts. The New York and Delaware Attorneys General have
intervened in this proceeding.   
      Note 24 Derivative instruments    
   We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. Our trading
activities are focused on acting as a market-maker for our customers and facilitating customer trades. In addition, we periodically manage positions for our own account. Positions managed for our own account are immaterial to our foreign exchange
and other trading revenue and to our overall results of operations.      The notional amounts for derivative financial instruments express the
dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller. We perform credit reviews and enter into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of derivative financial instruments. We enter into offsetting positions to reduce
exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and equity risk.      Use of derivative financial instruments involves reliance on counterparties.
Failure of a counterparty to honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk we assume whenever we engage in a derivative contract. Counterparty default losses were less than $1 million in 2012 and $15 million in 2011. Reserves for losses
incurred in both 2012 and 2011 were established in prior years. As a result, these counterparty default losses did not impact income in either year.

Hedging derivatives       We utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of available-for-sale investment securities, deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation
specifies the terms of the hedged items and the interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to
changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR.      The available-for-sale investment securities hedged consist of sovereign debt and U.S. Treasury bonds that had original maturities of 30 years or less at initial purchase. The swaps on the sovereign debt
and U.S. Treasury bonds are not callable. All of these securities are hedged with  pay fixed rate, receive variable rate  swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. At Dec. 31, 2012, $5.2 billion face amount of securities
were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $5.4 billion.      The hedged fixed rate deposits have original maturities of
approximately ten years and are not callable. These deposits are hedged with  receive fixed rate, pay variable  rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable. At Dec. 31, 2012, $10 million face
amount of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $10 million.      The fixed rate long-term debt instruments
hedged generally have original maturities of five to 30 years. We issue both callable and non-callable debt. The non-callable debt is hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with
callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At Dec. 31, 2012, $14 billion par value of debt was hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $14 billion.   
  In addition, we enter into foreign exchange hedges. We use forward foreign exchange contracts with maturities of nine months or less to hedge our British
Pound, Euro and Indian Rupee foreign exchange exposure with respect to foreign currency forecasted revenue and expense transactions in entities that have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the hedged forecasted
foreign currency transactions and designated forward foreign exchange   

BNY
Mellon     191   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

contract hedges were $97 million (notional), with a pre-tax loss of less than $1 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. This loss will be reclassified to income or expense
over the next nine months.      We use forward foreign exchange contracts with remaining maturities of nine months or less as hedges against our
foreign exchange exposure to Australian Dollar, Euro, Swedish Krona, British Pound, Norwegian Krone and Japanese Yen with respect to interest-bearing deposits with banks and their associated forecasted interest revenue. These hedges are designated
as cash flow hedges. These hedges are effected such that their maturities and notional values match those of the deposits with banks. As of Dec. 31, 2012, the hedged interest-bearing deposits with banks and their designated forward foreign exchange
contract hedges were $11.3 billion (notional), with a pre-tax loss of less than $1 million recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. This loss will be reclassified to net interest revenue over the next nine months.   
  Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward foreign exchange
contracts usually have maturities of less than two years. The derivatives employed are designated as hedges of changes in value of our foreign investments due to exchange rates. Changes in the value of the forward foreign exchange contracts offset
the changes

in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value of these forward foreign exchange contracts is deferred and reported within
accumulated translation adjustments in shareholders  equity, net of tax. At Dec. 31, 2012, forward foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $5.4 billion were designated as hedges.   
  In addition to forward foreign exchange contracts, we also designate non-derivative financial instruments as hedges of our net investments in foreign
subsidiaries. Those non-derivative financial instruments designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries were all long-term liabilities of BNY Mellon in various currencies, and, at Dec. 31, 2012, had a combined U.S. dollar
equivalent value of $524 million.      Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as follows:

(a)   
   Includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.

192     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The following table summarizes the notional amount and credit exposure of our total derivative portfolio
at Dec. 31, 2012 and 2011.       

(a)   
   The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives designated as hedging instruments is recorded as other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on
the balance sheet.      

(b)   
   The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives not designated as hedging instruments is recorded as trading assets and trading liabilities,
respectively, on the balance sheet.      

(c)   
   Fair values are on a gross basis, before consideration of master netting agreements, as required by ASC 815.      
    At Dec. 31, 2012, $416 billion (notional) of interest rate
contracts will mature within one year, $206 billion between one and five years, and $194 billion after five years. At Dec. 31, 2012, $360 billion (notional) of foreign exchange contracts will mature within one year, $8 billion between one and five
years, and $8 billion after five years.       

BNY
Mellon     193   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Derivatives in net  
  investment hedging  
  relationships   
     
    Gain or (loss) recognized in accumulated
OCI     on derivatives     (effective portion)     Year ended Dec. 31,   

Location of gain or     (loss) reclassified     from accumulated  
  OCI into income  
  (effective portion)   

Gain or (loss) reclassified  
  from accumulated  
  OCI into income  
  (effective portion)  
  Year ended Dec. 31,   

Location of gain or     (loss) recognized in     income on derivative  
  (ineffective portion and     amount excluded from     effectiveness testing)   

Gain or (loss) recognized in income on derivatives (ineffectiveness  
  portion and amount  
  excluded from  
  effectiveness testing)     Year ended Dec. 31,   

2012   

2011  

2010  

2012   

2011  

2010  

2012   

2011  

2010  

FX contracts   
     
   $   
   (181   
   )    
     
  $  
  75  

$  
  (52  
  )   

Net interest revenue  

$   
   -   

$  
  -  

$  
  -  

Other revenue  

$   
   1.6   

$  
  (0.1  
  )   
     
  $  
  (0.2  
  )    

Trading activities (including trading derivatives)    
  We manage trading risk through a system of position limits, a VaR methodology based on Monte Carlo simulations, stop loss advisory triggers, and other
market sensitivity measures. Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a separate unit on a daily basis. Based on certain assumptions, the VaR methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse
changes in fair values of all trading positions. The calculation assumes a one-day holding period for most instruments, utilizes a 99% confidence level, and incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options. The VaR model is one of several
statistical models used to develop economic capital results, which is allocated to lines of business for computing risk-adjusted performance.   
  As the VaR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk assessment process
includes a number of stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions. Additional stress scenarios based upon historic market events are also performed. Stress tests, by their
design, incorporate the impact of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations. The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.      Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading included the following:       

(a)   
   Credit derivatives are used as economic hedges of loans.

Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign currencies and currency forwards,
futures and options. Fixed income reflects results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, options, and fixed income securities. Credit derivatives/Other primarily includes revenue from credit default swaps
and income from equity securities and equity derivatives.       Counterparty credit risk and collateral    
  We assess credit risk of our counterparties through regular examination of their financial statements, confidential communication with the management of
those counterparties and regular monitoring of publicly available credit rating information. This and other information is used to develop proprietary credit rating metrics used to assess credit quality.   
  Collateral requirements are determined after a comprehensive review of the credit quality of each counterparty. Collateral is generally held or pledged
in the form of cash or highly liquid government securities. Collateral requirements are monitored and adjusted daily.      Additional disclosures
concerning derivative financial instruments are provided in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Disclosure of
contingent features in over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative instruments       Certain OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral
agreements of The Bank of New York Mellon, our largest banking subsidiary and the subsidiary through which BNY Mellon enters into the substantial majority of all of its OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral agreements, contain provisions that
may require us to take certain actions if The Bank of New York Mellon s public debt rating fell to a certain

194     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

level. Early termination provisions, or  close-out  agreements, in those contracts could trigger immediate payment of outstanding contracts that are in net liability positions. Certain
collateral agreements would require The Bank of New York Mellon to immediately post additional collateral to cover some or all of The Bank of New York Mellon s liabilities to a counterparty.   
  The following table shows the fair value of contracts falling under early termination provisions that were in net liability positions as of Dec. 31, 2012
for three key ratings triggers:       

If The Bank of New York Mellon s rating was
changed to (Moody s/S P)   

Potential close-out       exposures (fair value)   (a)      

A3/A-   
      
  $  
  740 million  

Baa2/BBB   
      
  $  
  945 million  

Bal/BB+   
      
  $  
  2,276 million  

(a)   
   The change between rating categories is incremental, not cumulative.         Additionally, if The Bank of New York Mellon s debt rating had fallen below investment grade on Dec. 31, 2012, existing collateral arrangements would have required us to have posted an additional
$562 million of collateral.   
      Note 25 Lines of businesses    
   We have an internal information system that produces performance data along product and services lines for our two principal
businesses and the Other segment.       Organization of our business       On Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold its Shareowner Services business. In 2012, we reclassified the results of the Shareowner Services business from the

Investment Services business to the Other segment. The reclassification did not impact consolidated results. All prior periods have been restated.   
   Business accounting principles       Our
business data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for consolidated financial reporting. These measurement principles are designed so that reported results
of the businesses will track their economic performance.      Business results are subject to reclassification whenever improvements are made in
the measurement principles, or when organizational changes are made.      The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those
described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      The operations of acquired businesses are integrated with the existing
businesses soon after they are completed. As a result of the integration of staff support functions, management of customer relationships, operating processes and the financial impact of funding acquisitions, we cannot precisely determine the impact
of acquisitions on income before taxes and therefore do not report it.      Information on our businesses is reported on a continuing operations
basis for 2010. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.

BNY
Mellon     195   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The primary types of revenue for two principal businesses and the Other segment are presented below:

Business   
      
   Primary types of revenue    

Investment Management   
      
            Investment management and performance fees
from:     Mutual funds  
  Institutional clients  
  Private clients     High-net-worth individuals and families, endowments and foundations and related entities             Distribution and servicing fees    

Investment Services   

Asset servicing fees, including institutional trust and custody fees, broker-dealer services and securities lending  
          Issuer services fees, including Corporate Trust and Depositary Receipts             Clearing services fees, including broker-dealer services,
registered investment advisor services and prime brokerage services             Treasury services fees, including global payment services and working capital solutions  
          Foreign exchange    

Other segment   

Credit-related activities             Leasing operations             Corporate treasury activities  
          Global markets and institutional banking services             Business exits    
    The results of our businesses are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis:   

Revenue amounts reflect fee and other revenue generated by each business. Fee and other revenue transferred between businesses under revenue transfer
agreements is included within other revenue in each business.      

Revenues and expenses associated with specific client bases are included in those businesses. For example, foreign exchange activity associated with
clients using custody products is allocated to Investment Services.      

Net interest revenue is allocated to businesses based on the yields on the assets and liabilities generated by each business. We employ a funds
transfer pricing system that matches funds with the specific assets and liabilities of each business based on their interest sensitivity and maturity characteristics.      

Support and other indirect expenses are allocated to businesses based on internally-developed methodologies.      

Recurring FDIC expense is allocated to the businesses based on average deposits generated within each business.      

Litigation expense is generally recorded in the business in which the charge occurs.      

Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment. As a result, gains and losses

associated with the valuation of the securities portfolio are included in the Other segment.      

Client deposits serve as the primary funding source for our investment securities portfolio. We typically allocate all interest revenue to the
businesses generating the deposits. Accordingly, accretion related to the restructured investment securities portfolio has been included in the results of the businesses.      

Net securities gains (losses) are recorded in the Other segment.      

M I expenses and restructuring charges are corporate level items and are therefore recorded in the Other segment.      

Balance sheet assets and liabilities and their related income or expense are specifically assigned to each business. Businesses with a net liability
position have been allocated assets.      

Goodwill and intangible assets are reflected within individual businesses.         Total revenue includes approximately $2.3 billion in 2012, $2.2 billion in 2011 and $2.1 billion in 2010, of international operations domiciled in the UK which comprised 16%, 15% and 15% of total revenue,
respectively.   

196     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The following consolidating schedules show the contribution of our businesses to our overall
profitability.       

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $189 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $76 million, for a net
impact of $113 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $76 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.          

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $200 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $50 million, for a net
impact of $150 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $50 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.          

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $226 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $59 million, for a net
impact of $167 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $59 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      
 
         BNY
Mellon     197   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 26 International operations    
   International activity includes Investment Management and Investment Services fee revenue generating businesses, foreign exchange
trading activity, loans and other revenue producing assets and transactions in which the customer is domiciled outside of the United States and/or the international activity is resident at an international entity. Due to the nature of our
international and domestic activities, it is not possible to precisely distinguish between internationally and domestically domiciled customers.

As a result, it is necessary to make certain subjective assumptions such as:       

Income from international operations is determined after internal allocations for interest revenue, taxes, expenses, provision and allowance for credit
losses.      

Expense charges to international operations include those directly incurred in connection with such activities, as well as an allocable share of
general support and overhead charges.      

Total revenue, income before income
taxes, net income and total assets of our international operations are shown in the table below.       

(a)   
   Total assets include long-lived assets, which are not considered by management to be significant in relation to total assets. Long-lived assets are primarily located
in the United States.      

(c)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis.      
      Note 27 Supplemental information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
   Noncash investing and financing transactions that, appropriately, are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are
listed below.       

198     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
            The Board of Directors and Shareholders      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( BNY Mellon ) as
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of BNY Mellon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BNY Mellon as
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), BNY Mellon s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated February 28, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting.       
  /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York   
  February 28, 2013   
         BNY
Mellon     199   

Table of Contents  

    Directors, Executive Committee and Other Executive Officers    
             Effective February 28, 2013    
    
     Directors         Ruth E. Bruch       Retired Senior Vice President and   
  Chief Information Officer      Kellogg Company
     Cereal and convenience foods   
   Nicholas M. Donofrio       Retired Executive
Vice President,      Innovation and Technology      IBM Corporation      Developer, manufacturer and provider of advanced information technologies and
services       Gerald L. Hassell    
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation       Edmund F. (Ted) Kelly       Chairman      Liberty Mutual Group      Multi-line insurance company       Richard J. Kogan    
  Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      Schering-Plough Corporation      International research-based development and manufacturing
      Michael J. Kowalski    
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
  Tiffany   Co.      International designer,
manufacturer and distributor of jewelry and fine goods       John A. Luke, Jr.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      MeadWestvaco Corporation   
  Manufacturer of paper, packaging and specialty chemicals       Mark A. Nordenberg       Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer   
  University of Pittsburgh      Major public research
university   
 
    Catherine A. Rein       Retired Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer      MetLife, Inc.
     Insurance and financial services company       William C. Richardson       President and Chief Executive Officer Emeritus   
  Retired Chairman and Co-Trustee of      The W. K.
Kellogg Foundation Trust      Private foundation       Samuel C. Scott III       Retired Chairman, President and   
  Chief Executive Officer      Corn Products
International, Inc.      Global producers of corn-refined products and ingredients       Wesley W. von Schack       Chairman      AEGIS Insurance Services, Inc.      Mutual property and casualty insurance company   
    Executive Committee and Other Executive Officers         Gerald L. Hassell *       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
   Curtis Y. Arledge *       Chief Executive
Officer,      Investment Management   
   Richard F. Brueckner *       Chief of Staff
      Arthur Certosimo       Chief
Executive Officer,      Global Markets   
   Michael Cole-Fontayn       Chairman,
     Europe, the Middle East and Africa   
  Chief Executive Officer      Depositary Receipts

Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons *       Chief Financial Officer       Mitchell E. Harris    
  President,      Investment Management   
   Timothy F. Keaney *       Chief Executive
Officer,      Investment Services   
   Suresh Kumar       Chief Information Officer
      Stephen D. Lackey       Chairman,
     Asia Pacific       James P. Palermo *
      Chief Executive Officer,      Global
Client Management       John A. Park *       Controller       Karen B. Peetz *       President       Lisa B. Peters       Chief Human Resources Officer       Brian G. Rogan *    
  Chief Risk Officer       Brian T. Shea *
      President,      Investment Services
     Head of the Broker Dealer and Advisor Service Group      Head of Client Service Delivery and Client Technology Solutions      Chairman,   
  Pershing LLC       Jane C. Sherburne *
      General Counsel and Corporate Secretary       Kurt D. Woetzel       Chief Executive Officer,   
  Global Collateral Services

*  
  Designated as an Executive Officer.     
      
  200     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    Performance Graph    

This graph shows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s cumulative total shareholder returns over the five-year
period from Dec. 31, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2012. Our peer group is composed of financial services companies which provide investment management and investment servicing. We also utilize the S P 500 Financial Index as a benchmark against our
performance. The graph shows the cumulative total returns for the same five-year period of the S P 500 Financial Index, the S P 500 Index as well as our peer group listed below. The comparison assumes a $100 investment on Dec. 31, 2007 in
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common stock, in the S P 500 Financial Index, in the S P 500 Index and in the peer group detailed below and assumes that all dividends were reinvested.   

Peer Group*   

American Express Company  
  Bank of America Corporation  
  BlackRock, Inc.     The Charles Schwab Corporation   
      
    Citigroup Inc.     JPMorgan Chase   Co.     Northern Trust Corporation  
  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
      
  Prudential Financial, Inc.  
  State Street Corporation     U.S.
Bancorp     Wells Fargo   Company    

*  
  Returns are weighted by market capitalization at the beginning of the measurement period.     
         BNY
Mellon     201   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 7
 d448545dex211.htm
 EX-21.1

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES
       DEC. 31, 2012       The following are primary subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation as of December 31, 2012 and the states or jurisdictions in which they are organized. The names of particular
subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of December 31, 2012, a  significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of
Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       

4101 Austin Boulevard Corp.   State of Incorporation: New York      

Alcentra Investments Limited   Incorporation: Bermuda      

BNY Alcentra Group Holdings, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital Markets Holdings, Inc.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY International Financing Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

BNY Real Estate Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNYM GIS Funding I LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNYM GIS Funding III LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos Ltda.   Incorporation: Brazil      

BNY Mellon Asset Management International Holdings Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Asset Management Japan Limited   Incorporation: Japan      

BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Fixed Income Securities, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Global Management Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon Holdings (UK) Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon International Asset Management Group Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Investment Servicing (US) Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

BNY Mellon Securities Services (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon Trust Company (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

Insight Investment Management (Global) Limited   Incorporation: England      

Insight Investment Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Insight Investment Funds Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Lockwood Advisors Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBC Investments Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBSC Securities Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Mellon Canada Holding Company   Incorporation: Canada      

Mellon Capital Management Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Financial Services Corporation #1   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Financial Services Corporation #4   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Mellon International Holdings S.a.r.l.   Incorporation: Luxembourg      

Mellon Overseas Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
   PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES        DEC. 31, 2012        Continued    

MFS Leasing Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MUNB Loan Holdings, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

One Wall Street Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Pershing Group LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing Holdings (UK) Limited   Incorporation: England      

Pershing Limited   Incorporation: England          

Pershing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware          

Pershing Securities Limited   Incorporation: England      

TBC Securities Co., Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

The Bank of New York Mellon   State of Organization: New York      

The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited   Incorporation: England      

The Bank of New York Mellon (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV   Incorporation: Belgium      

The Dreyfus Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Walter Scott   Partners Limited   Incorporation: Scotland      

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 d448545dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors
     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements, as amended:       
    of our reports dated February 28, 2013, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( BNY Mellon ) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2012, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, which reports appear in the December 31, 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K of BNY Mellon.   
  /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York   
  February 28, 2013   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 9
 d448545dex241.htm
 EX-24.1

EX-24.1 

Exhibit 24.1        POWER OF ATTORNEY       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   
  Know all men by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Jane C. Sherburne and Craig T. Beazer, and each
of them, such person s true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and revocation, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports on
Form 10-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2012, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file same with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents and each of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      This power of
attorney shall be effective as of February 12, 2013 and shall continue in full force and effect until revoked by the undersigned in a writing filed with the secretary of the Corporation.   

/s/ Ruth E. Bruch   

/s/ Mark A. Nordenberg   
 
    Ruth E. Bruch, Director   

Mark A. Nordenberg, Director   

/s/ Nicholas M. Donofrio   

/s/ Catherine A. Rein   
 
    Nicholas M. Donofrio, Director   

Catherine A. Rein, Director   

/s/ Edmund F. Kelly   

/s/ William C. Richardson   
 
    Edmund F. Kelly, Director   

William C. Richardson, Director   

/s/ Richard J. Kogan   

/s/ Samuel C. Scott III   
 
    Richard J. Kogan, Director   

Samuel C. Scott III, Director   

/s/ Michael J. Kowalski   

/s/ Wesley W. von Schack   
 
    Michael J. Kowalski, Director   

Wesley W. von Schack, Director   

/s/ John A. Luke, Jr.   

John A. Luke, Jr., Director   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 d448545dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Gerald L. Hassell, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2013       

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell   
 
  Name: Gerald L. Hassell   
 
  Title: Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 d448545dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Thomas P. Gibbons, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2013       

/s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   
 
  Name: Thomas P. Gibbons   
 
  Title: Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 d448545dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of BNY
Mellon.       

Dated: February 28, 2013  

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

Name: Gerald L. Hassell   

Title: Chief Executive Officer   
    The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed
as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 d448545dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of BNY
Mellon.       

Dated: February 28, 2013  

/s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   

Name: Thomas P. Gibbons   

Title: Chief Financial Officer   
    The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed
as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 14
 d448545dex991.htm
 EX-99.1

EX-99.1 

Exhibit 99.1        Replacement Capital Covenant , dated as of September 19, 2006 and as amended on September 11, 2012 (this   Replacement Capital Covenant  ), by The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as successor to Mellon Financial Corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the   Corporation  ), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
      Recitals        A.  On September 19, 2006, the Corporation is issuing  200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.369% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debt Securities, due 2066 (the
  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities  ) to Mellon Capital III (the   Trust  ).       B.  On
September 19, 2006, the Trust is issuing  200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.369% Trust Preferred Securities (the  Trust Preferred Securities  and together with the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, the
  Securities  ).       C.  This Replacement Capital Covenant is the  Replacement Capital Covenant 
referred to in the Prospectus, dated September 15, 2006, relating to the Securities (the   Prospectus  ).   
   D.  The Corporation is entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below
with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.       E.  The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered
Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have
sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.       N OW , T HEREFORE ,  the
Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.   
   Section 1.   Definitions . Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the
meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.       Section 2.   Limitations on Redemption and Repurchase of
Securities . The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not, and shall cause the Trust not to, repay, redeem or repurchase all or any part of the Securities on or
before September 5, 2056, except (a) pursuant to a Redemption of Capitalized Interest or (b) to the extent that (x) the Corporation has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve if such approval is then required under
the Federal Reserve s capital guidelines and (y) the amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase price does not exceed the sum of the following amounts:   
  (i) the Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its
Subsidiaries since the Measurement Date (without counting any proceeds received more than once for purposes of the limitations set forth in this Section 2) from the sale of Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock to Persons other than
the Corporation and its Subsidiaries;  plus    

(ii) 100% of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the
Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the Measurement Date (without counting any proceeds received more than once for purposes of the limitations set forth in this Section 2) from the sale of Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock and Debt
Exchangeable into Equity to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries;  plus       (iii) 100% of
the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the Measurement Date (without counting any proceeds received more than once for purposes of the limitations set forth in this Section 2) from the
sale of Qualifying Capital Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Section 3.
  Limitations on Payment of Deferred and Capitalized Interest . The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation shall not, on or before September 5, 2056, (a) pay
any deferred interest on the Securities other than out of Eligible Proceeds or (b) redeem the part of the outstanding Principal Amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures representing Capitalized Interest except pursuant to a Redemption of
Capitalized Interest.       Section 4.   Covered Debt . (a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the
Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.      (b) On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with
respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:   
  (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its and its Depository Institution Subsidiaries  then outstanding
long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;      (ii) the Corporation shall designate one of
such series to be the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date;      (iii) the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this
Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered
Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 4(b); and      (iv) in connection with such
identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall, as provided for in Section 4(c), give the notice provided for in Section 4(c) within the time frame provided for in such section.   
  (c)  Notice . In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital D, the Corporation covenants that
(i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, it shall (A) give notice to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture
relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an Exhibit to a Form 8-K under the
  
         -2-

Securities Exchange Act, (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation will include in each annual report filed with the
Commission on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with
the Commission; (iii) if a series of the Corporation s or one of its Depository Institution Subsidiary s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (1) becomes Covered Debt or (2) ceases to be Covered Debt, give notice of
such occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was
issued and report such change in the Corporation s next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable; (iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act,
post on its website the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 4(c); and (v) promptly upon request by any Holder of Covered Debt,
provide such Holder with an executed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.       Section 5.   Termination,
Amendment and Waiver . (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest date (the   Termination Date  ) to occur of
(i) August 1, 2056, (ii) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority by principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the
obligations of the Corporation hereunder and (iii) the date on which neither the Corporation nor any of its Depositary Institution Subsidiaries has any series of outstanding Eligible Debt. From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of
the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect.      (b) This Replacement
Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of a majority by principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt,  provided  that
this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if (i) the effect of
such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the ability of the Corporation to repay, redeem or repurchase Securities in any circumstance or (ii) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the holders of the
then effective series of Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect
to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt.   
  (c) For purposes of Section 5(a) and Section 5(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or
supplement the obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which
the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective.       Section 6.
  Miscellaneous . (a)  This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.    
         -3-

(b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its
successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at the time such Person acquires, holds
or sells Covered Debt shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its
rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Person s
rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).      (c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served
by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the
Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied,
or if not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, provided that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as the
Corporation may thereafter notify to Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:      Mellon Financial Corporation      One Mellon Center   
  500 Grant Street   
  Room 4826   
  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258      Attention: Secretary      Facsimile No: (412) 236-5909   
         -4-

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF    , the
Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.        

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    

By:  
     
    /s/ Scott Freidenrich    

Name:  
     
  Scott Freidenrich   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President and Treasurer   

-5-

Schedule 1        Definitions          Applicable
Percentage   means one divided by (a) 75% with respect to any repayment, redemption or repurchase on or prior to September 1, 2016, (b) 50% with respect to any repayment, redemption or repurchase on or prior to
September 1, 2036, and (c) 25% with respect to any repayment, redemption or repurchase after September 1, 2036.        Business Day   means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or
executive order to remain closed or, on or after August 15, 2036, a day that is not a London business day. A   London business day   is any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank
market.        Capitalized Interest   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the
Supplemental Indenture.        Commission   means the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission.        Common Stock   means common stock of the Corporation (including common stock and
rights to acquire common stock issued pursuant to the Corporation s dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans).        Corporation   has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.        Covered Debt   means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and
(b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 4(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.   
    Covered Debtholder   means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a
participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation or its Depository Institution Subsidiary during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt.
       Debt Exchangeable for Equity   means a security (or combination of securities) that:
     (i) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (a) debt securities of the Corporation that are
Non-Cumulative and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank  pari passu  with the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation) and (b) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract;   
  (ii) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Corporation is remarketed to new
investors within five years from the date of issuance of the security or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on (a) the capital ratios of the Corporation, (b) the capital ratios of the Corporation as anticipated by the
Federal Reserve, or (c) the dissolution of the issuer of such Debt Exchangeable for Equity;   
         I-1

(iii) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to
purchase Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock;      (iv) includes a replacement capital covenant substantially
similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant,  provided  that such replacement capital covenant will apply to such security (or combination of securities) and to the Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock and will not include Debt
Exchangeable for Equity in the definition of  Qualifying Capital Securities  and      (v) after the
issuance of such Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, provides the holder of the security with a beneficial interest in such Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock.   
    Depository Institution Subsidiary   means any Subsidiary of the Corporation that is a depository
institution within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.   204.2(m).        Distribution Date   means, as to
any securities or combination of securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.        Distribution Period   means, as to any securities or combination of securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date for such securities to but not including the next
succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.        Distributions   means, as to a security or
combination of securities, dividends, interest payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation.        Eligible Debt   means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (a) upon a bankruptcy,
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks senior to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities, (b) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (c) was issued through or with the assistance of a
commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for
money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a
series of the issuer s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.        Eligible Proceeds   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Supplemental Indenture.        Federal Reserve   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.        Holder   means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect
to such Covered Debt.   
         I-2

Initial Covered Debt   means the Corporation s 7.995%
Series B junior subordinated debentures due January 15, 2027.   1           Junior Subordinated Debt Securities   has the
meaning specified in Recital A.        Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock   means cumulative
preferred stock with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock of the Corporation within
three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock.        Mandatory Trigger Provision   means, as to any security or combination of securities (together in this definition,   securities  ), provisions in the terms thereof or of
the related transaction agreements that (A) require, or at its option in the case of Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock permit, the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the
issuance and sale of shares of its Common Stock, rights to purchase Common Stock or Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, within two years of a failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related
transaction agreements, in amount such that the net proceeds of such sale at least equal the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and in either case requires the
application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions,  provided  that (i) the amount of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock the net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to
such provision may not exceed 25% of the liquidation or principal amount of such securities, and (ii) if the Mandatory Trigger Provision permits the payment of Distributions amounting to up to 25% of the liquidation or principal amount of such
securities pursuant to the issuance and sale of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock and the Mandatory Trigger Provision requires or permits such issuance and sale within more than one year of such failure and the securities include an Optional
Deferral Provision, such Mandatory Trigger Provision may not require the issuance of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock in excess of 2% of the Company s market capitalization, (B) in the case of securities other than
Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, prohibit the Corporation from repurchasing any of its Common Stock prior to the date six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (A) to pay such unpaid
Distributions in full and (C) upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the Corporation, limit the claim of the
holders of such securities (other than Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock) for Distributions that accumulate during a period in which the Corporation fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or
related transaction agreements to (x) 25% of the principal amount of such securities then outstanding in the case of securities not permitting the issuance and sale pursuant to the provisions described in clause (A) above of securities
other than Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock or (y) two years of accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts thereon) in all other cases. No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of
such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of the issuer s failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision or as a result of the issuer s exercise of its
right under an Optional Deferral Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years.   

I-3

Market Disruption Events   means one or more events or
circumstances substantially similar to those listed as  Market Disruption Events  in the Supplemental Indenture.        Measurement Date   means September 11, 2012.   
    Non-Cumulative   means, with respect to any securities, that the issuer thereof may elect not to make any
number of periodic Distributions or interest payments without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies. Securities that include either
(i) provisions requiring the Corporation to issue Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, rights to purchase Common Stock and/or other equity securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on terms substantially similar to the
terms of the alternative payment mechanism described in Section 4.1(i) of the Supplemental Indenture or (ii) a Mandatory Trigger Provision shall also be deemed to be  Non-Cumulative  securities for all purposes of this
Replacement Capital Covenant other than the definition of  Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock .   
    NRSRO   means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule
15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act.        Optional Deferral Provision   means,
as to any securities, a provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the following effect:      (a) the issuer of such securities thereof may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five
years or, if an event substantially similar to a Market Disruption Event is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the obligation described in clause (b) below; and   
  (b) if the issuer of such securities has exhausted its right to defer Distributions and no event substantially similar to
a Market Disruption Event is continuing, the issuer will be obligated to issue and sell shares of its common stock, rights to purchase common stock and/or Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale
equal or exceed the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and to apply the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions in full.   
    Permitted Remedies   means, with respect to any securities, one or more of the following remedies:
     (a) rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors
of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded), and   
  (b) complete or partial prohibitions on the issuer paying Distributions on or repurchasing common stock or other
securities that rank pari passu with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including unpaid Distributions, remain unpaid.   
         I-4

Person   means any individual, corporation, partnership,
joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.        Principal Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.1 of the Supplemental Indenture.        Prospectus   has the meaning specified in Recital C.        Qualifying Capital Securities   means securities (other than Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock and securities convertible into Common Stock) that (a) qualify as Tier 1
capital of the Corporation under the capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve as then in effect and applicable to bank holding companies and (b) in the determination of the Corporation s Board of Directors, meet one of the following
criteria at the time the Corporation or any Subsidiary shall repay, redeem or repurchase the Securities:      (i)
in connection with any redemption or repurchase of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities or the Trust Preferred Securities on or prior to September 1, 2016:      (A) junior subordinated debt securities and guarantees issued by the Corporation with respect to trust preferred securities if the junior subordinated debt securities and guarantees (1) rank  pari
passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, (2) have terms that are substantially similar to the terms of the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and
guarantees described in the Prospectus and (3) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or, to the extent approved by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;
     (B) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank  pari passu  with or
junior to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) are Non-Cumulative, (3) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (4) are subject to a replacement
capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or, to the extent approved by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or   
  (C) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior to other
preferred stock of the issuer, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years, (3) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant, (4) are Non-Cumulative and
(5) to the extent approved by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;   
         I-5

A replacement capital covenant that by its terms terminates on or after September 1,
2016 but otherwise is substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to satisfy the  substantially similar  requirement in clause (B)(4) above if the securities rank  pari passu  with or junior to other
preferred stock of the issuer notwithstanding that this Replacement Capital Covenant does not include such a termination provision.      (ii) in connection with any repayment, redemption or repurchase of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities or Trust Preferred Securities after September 1, 2016 and on or prior to September 1, 2036:
     (A) all securities described under clause (i) of this definition;   
  (B) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (3) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this
Replacement Capital Covenant and (4) have an Optional Deferral Provision or a Ten-Year Optional Deferral Provision;      (C) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation, (2) are Non-Cumulative and (3) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years;   
  (D) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) are Non-Cumulative, (3) have no maturity or a maturity at least 40 years and (4) are subject to a replacement capital covenant
substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or, to the extent approved by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision;      (E) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank pari passu with the Corporation s junior subordinated debentures issued to Mellon Capital II and the guarantees
thereof, (2) are Non-Cumulative, (3) to the extent approved by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (4) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years;   
  (F) cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (A) has no prepayment obligation
on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (B) (1) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (2) is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this
Replacement Capital Covenant; or      (G) other securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that
(A) rank upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation either (1)  pari passu  with or junior to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities or (2)  pari passu  with the claims of the Corporation s trade
creditors and junior to all of   
         I-6

the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (other than the Corporation s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed from time to time outstanding that by its terms ranks
pari passu with such securities on a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation); and (B) are Non-Cumulative and either (x) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and, to the extent approved by the Federal
Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and or (y) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 25 years and are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant and, to the extent approved
by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or      (iii) in connection with any repayment,
redemption or repurchase of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities or Trust Preferred Securities at any time after September 1, 2036:      (A) all securities described under clause (ii) of this definition;      (B) preferred stock issued by the Corporation that (1) has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and (2) has an Optional Deferral Provision;   
  (C) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior to the
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) either (A) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years or (B) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years and are
subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant and (3) have an Optional Deferral Provision;      (D) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank pari passu with the Corporation s junior subordinated debentures issued to Mellon Capital II and the guarantees
thereof, (2) to the extent approved by the Federal Reserve, have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and (3) have no maturity or a maturity at least 30 years; or   
  (E) cumulative preferred stock issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that either (1) has no maturity or a
maturity of at least 60 years or (2) has a maturity of at least 40 years and is subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant.   
    Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock   means Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the
Corporation or its Subsidiaries that ranks  pari passu  with or junior to other preferred stock of the issuer, and, for purposes of clause (a) of the definition of Mandatory Trigger Provision, contains no remedies other than Permitted
Remedies and is either subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or a Mandatory Trigger Provision.        Redemption of Capitalized Interest   has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(k)(iii) of the Supplemental Indenture.   
         I-7

Redesignation Date   means, as to the Covered Debt in
effect at any time, the earlier of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt and (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem, or the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to
repurchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or
repurchase date.        Replacement Capital Covenant   has the meaning specified in the introduction
to this instrument.        Securities Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.        Securities   has the meaning specified in Recital B.   
    Subsidiary   means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which
having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.        Supplemental
Indenture   means the Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 19, 2006, between the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.   
    Ten-Year Optional Deferral Provision   means, as to any securities, a provision in the terms thereof or
of the related transaction agreements to the effect that the issuer of such securities thereof may, in its sole discretion, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up
to ten years without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.        Termination Date   has the
meaning specified in Section 5(a).        Trust   has the meaning specified in Recital A.
       Trust Preferred Securities   has the meaning specified in Recital B.   
         I-8

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 15
 d448545dex992.htm
 EX-99.2

EX-99.2 

Exhibit 99.2        R EPLACEMENT  C APITAL  C OVENANT    , dated as of June 19, 2007 and as amended on May 8, 2012 and September 11, 2012 (this
  Replacement Capital Covenant  ), by T HE  B ANK   OF  N EW  Y ORK  M ELLON  C ORPORATION , a corporation duly organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Delaware, as successor to Mellon Financial Corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the   Corporation  ), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
      Recitals        A . On June 19, 2007, Mellon Capital IV, a Delaware statutory trust (the   Trust  ) having the Corporation as its grantor, is issuing 500,000 of its  6.244% Fixed-to-Floating
Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities , or   Normal PCS  , having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate. Each Normal PCS corresponds to (i) $1,000 principal amount of Remarketable 6.044%
Junior Subordinated Notes, or   Junior Subordinated Notes  , owned by the Trust and (ii) a
1/100   th    interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which
the Trust is obligated to purchase, and the Corporation is obligated to sell, on the Stock Purchase Date determined pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contract, one share of the Corporation s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L,
$100,000 liquidation preference per share (the   Preferred Stock   the shares of Preferred Stock covered by all of the Stock Purchase Contracts owned by the Trust, collectively, the   Shares   and, together with the
Junior Subordinated Notes, the Normal PCS and the   Stripped PCS   and the   Capital PCS  , each as defined in the Prospectus Supplement referred to in Recital B, the   Securities  ).   
   B.  This Replacement Capital Covenant is the   Replacement Capital Covenant   referred to in the Prospectus
Supplement, dated June 12, 2007 (the   Prospectus Supplement  ), relating to, among other securities, the Securities.       C . The Corporation is entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement
Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and that the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.   
   D.  The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant
is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.
      N OW , T HEREFORE ,  the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and
for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.       Section 1.   Definitions . Capitalized terms used in this
Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.       Section 2.
  Limitations on Redemption and Purchase of Securities . The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary shall redeem or purchase (x) all or
any part of the Junior Subordinated Notes or Replacement Notes prior to the Stock Purchase Date or (y) all or any part of the PCS or the Shares prior to the Termination Date, except in either case to the extent that (A) the Corporation has
obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve, if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, and (B) the total redemption or purchase price does not exceed the
sum, as of the date of redemption or purchase, of the following amounts:      (i) 133.33% of the aggregate amount
of (a) net cash proceeds received by the Corporation or any Subsidiary from the issuance and sale of Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock and (b) the Market Value of any Common Stock that the Corporation or any Subsidiary has
issued or delivered as consideration for property or assets in an arm s-length transaction or in connection with the conversion or exchange of any securities for which the Corporation has not received equity credit from any NRSRO;  plus 
     (ii) 100% of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation or any Subsidiary from the
issuance of Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Qualifying Capital Securities and Qualifying Preferred Stock;   

in each case to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the Measurement Date (without
counting any proceeds received more than once for purposes of the limitations set forth in this Section 2);  provided  that the provisions of this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not apply to:   
  (a) the acquisition by the Corporation of any Junior Subordinated Notes on the Stock Purchase Date in exchange for the
issuance of the Shares to the Trust pursuant to the Stock Purchase Contracts,      (b) the purchase of the
Securities or any portion thereof by any Subsidiary in connection with the distribution thereof or market-making or other secondary market activities,      (c) any distribution of Shares or Junior Subordinated Notes to holders of PCS upon the dissolution of the Trust or any redemption of PCS in exchange for Shares or Junior Subordinated Notes (or trust
preferred securities of a trust that holds Junior Subordinated Notes), or      (d) the exchange of any of the
Securities for Common Stock having a Market Value or Qualifying Preferred Stock having an aggregate liquidation preference not less than the liquidation, principal or stated amount of such Securities.   
  The Corporation hereby further promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that (i) neither the
Corporation nor any Subsidiary shall purchase or redeem all or any part of the Junior Subordinated Notes prior to the Stock Purchase Date if the Corporation or any Subsidiary shall have, since May 8, 2012, purchased or redeemed any securities
of the Corporation (other than the Junior Subordinated Notes or Common Stock) that rank  pari passu  with or junior upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation to all of its debt for borrowed money, other than trade payables
and any debt that is expressly made  pari passu  with the Junior Subordinated Notes and (ii) in the event the Corporation or any Subsidiary purchases or redeems all or any part of the Junior Subordinated Notes prior to the Stock Purchase
Date in reliance upon the issuance of Qualifying Capital Securities consisting of Replacement Notes, (A) during the period after any such purchase or redemption and continuing to the Stock Purchase Date, neither the Corporation nor any
Subsidiary shall purchase or redeem any securities of the Corporation other than Common Stock, the Junior Subordinated Notes and any debt that would rank senior to the Junior Subordinated Notes and (B) the Corporation shall use the proceeds of
such issuance for purposes other than the repurchase of any equity securities of the Corporation.   
         -2-

Section 3.   Covered Debt . (a) The Corporation represents and warrants
that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.      (b) On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation
Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:   
  (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its and its Depository Institution Subsidiaries  then outstanding
long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;      (ii) the Corporation shall designate one of
such series to be the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date;      (iii) the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this
Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered
Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and      (iv) in connection with such
identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall, as provided for in Section 3(c), give the notice provided for in Section 3(c) within the time frame provided for in such section.   
  (c)  Notice . In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital C, the Corporation covenants that:
     (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the
date hereof, it shall (x) give (or cause to be given) notice to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted
to such Holders hereunder and (y) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act;   
  (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall include in
each annual report filed with the Commission on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify in such annual report the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is
Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with the Commission;      (iii) if a series of the
Corporation s or one of its Depositary Institution Subsidiary s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (x) becomes Covered Debt or (y) ceases to be Covered Debt, the Corporation shall give (or cause to be given) notice of such
occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was
issued and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation s next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable;
  
         -3-

(iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under
the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall (x) post on its website (or any other similar electronic platform generally available to the public) the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings
pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3(c) and (y) to the extent permitted by Bloomberg and any other similar third-party vendor that makes available to the marketplace information with respect to securities that are
Covered Debt by posting such information on an electronically accessible screen (each an   Investor Screen  ), cause a notation to be included on each such Investor Screen identifying the relevant series of indebtedness of the
Corporation that is Covered Debt from time to time as Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant and cause a hyperlink to a definitive copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be included on the Investor Screen for each
series of Covered Debt (but only so long as such series is Covered Debt); and      (v) promptly upon request by any
Holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such Holder with an executed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.   
  (d) The Corporation agrees that, if at any time the Covered Debt is held by a trust (for example, where the Covered Debt is part of an
issuance of trust preferred securities), a holder of the securities issued by such trust may enforce (including by instituting legal proceedings) this Replacement Capital Covenant directly against the Corporation as though such holder owned Covered
Debt directly, and such holder shall be deemed to be a holder of   Covered Debt   for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for so long as the indebtedness held by such trust remains Covered Debt hereunder.   
   Section 4.   Termination, Amendment and Waiver . (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement
Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest date (the   Termination Date  ) to occur of:      (i) the date on which all Securities held by Persons that are not Subsidiaries have been redeemed or purchased in accordance with this Replacement Capital Covenant,   
  (ii) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt
consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the obligations of the Corporation hereunder,      (iii) the date on which neither the Corporation nor any of its Depositary Institution Subsidiaries has any series of outstanding Eligible Debt,   
  (iv) the date that is ten years after the Stock Purchase Date; and   
  (v) the date prior to the Stock Purchase Date on which an event of default occurs that results in the acceleration of the
Junior Subordinated Notes.      From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital
Covenant shall be of no further force and effect.      (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from
time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of a majority by principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt,  provided  that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or
supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if:   
  (i) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock as a security or securities
covered by clause (i) of Section 2 if after the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility
for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock would result in a reduction in
the Corporation s earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States;   
         -4-

(ii) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the
then-effective series of Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect
to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt;   
  (iii) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on, or eliminate certain of,
the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities (other than the securities covered by clause (i) above), and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the
manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate to that effect; or      (iv) such amendment or supplement postpones the date set forth in clause (iv) of Section 4(a).      (c) For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement the obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant
shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes
effective.       Section 5.   Miscellaneous . (a)  This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.       (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be
binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at
the time such Person acquires, holds or sells Covered Debt shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a
claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer
Covered Debt, such Person s rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt).   
         -5-

(c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this
Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day),
(ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a
Business Day, the next Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next Business Day,  provided  that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each
case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as the Corporation may thereafter notify to Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:   
  Mellon Financial Corporation      One Mellon Center      500 Grant Street   
  Room 4826   
  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15258      Attention: Secretary      Facsimile No: (412) 236-5909   
         -6-

I N  W ITNESS  W HEREOF    , the
Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.        

T HE  B ANK   OF  N EW  Y ORK  M ELLON  C ORPORATION     

By:  
     
    /s/ Scott Freidenrich    

Name:  
     
  Scott Freidenrich   

Title:  
     
  Executive Vice President and Treasurer   

-7-

Schedule I   
    Definitions          Alternative Payment Mechanism   means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the related transaction documents:   
  (I) permitting the Corporation, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve,
to defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods up to 10 years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and obligations (and
limitations on obligations) set forth in this definition applying as a result of such deferral or skipping of Distributions; and      (II) requiring the Corporation to issue (or to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred
Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period
on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period;      and that:      (a) define  eligible proceeds  to mean, for
purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters  or placement agents  fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable)
that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;      (b) permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any
Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other
than eligible proceeds;      (c) if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year, include a
Repurchase Restriction;      (d) notwithstanding clause (b) of this definition, if the Federal Reserve
disapproves the issuer s sale of APM Qualifying Securities or the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) permit the Corporation
to pay deferred Distributions from any source or, if the Federal Reserve does not disapprove the issuer s issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities, but disapproves the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the
Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) permit the Corporation to use such proceeds for other purposes and to continue to defer Distributions without a breach of its obligations under the transaction
documents;   
         I-1

(e) limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or to use Commercially
Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants to settle deferred Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism either (A) during the first five years of any deferral period or
(B) before an anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period that is not earlier than the fifth such anniversary and not later than the ninth such anniversary (as designated in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) with
respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of such deferral period, either:      (i) to
an aggregate amount of such securities, the net proceeds from the issuance of which is equal to 2% of the product of the average of the current Market Value of the Common Stock on the 10 consecutive trading days ending on the fourth trading day
immediately preceding the date of issuance multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation s most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements; or   
  (ii) to a number of shares of Common Stock and shares purchasable upon the exercise of Qualifying Warrants, in the
aggregate, not in excess of 2% of the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock (the   Common Cap        (f) limit the right of the Corporation to issue APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock to settle deferred Distributions pursuant to the
Alternative Payment Mechanism to an aggregate amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock and still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds from the issuance of which with
respect to all deferral periods is equal to 25% of the liquidation or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities (the   Preferred Cap     
  (g) in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities other than preferred stock, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation
Provision;      (h) may include a provision that, notwithstanding the Common Cap and the Preferred Cap, for
purposes of paying deferred Distributions, limits the Corporation s ability to sell shares of its Common Stock, Qualifying Warrants or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock above an aggregate cap specified in the transaction documents (a
  Share Cap  ), subject to the Corporation s agreement to use commercially reasonable efforts to increase the Share Cap amount (i) only to the extent that it can do so and simultaneously satisfy its future fixed or
contingent obligations under other securities and derivative instruments that provide for settlement or payment in shares of Common Stock or (ii) if the Corporation cannot increase the Share Cap amount as contemplated in the preceding clause,
by requesting its Board of Directors to adopt a resolution for shareholder vote at the next occurring annual shareholders meeting to increase the number of shares of its authorized Common Stock for purposes of satisfying its obligations to pay
deferred Distributions; and      (i) permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if it is involved in a
merger, consolidation, amalgamation, binding share exchange or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as an entirety to any other person or a similar transaction (a   Business Combination  ) where immediately after the
consummation of the Business Combination more than 50% of the surviving or resulting entity s voting stock is owned by the shareholders of the   
         I-2

other party to the Business Combination, then clauses (a) through (c) of this definition will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next Distribution Date following
the date of consummation of the Business Combination (or if later, at any time within 90 days following the date of consummation of the Business Combination);       provided  (and it being understood) that:      (i) the
Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;   
  (ii) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of
the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation shall apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological
order subject to the Common Cap, the Share Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and      (iii) if the Corporation
has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the
amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a  pro rata  basis up to the Common Cap and the Preferred Cap, as
applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities, or on such other basis as the Federal Reserve may approve.        APM Qualifying Securities   means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism or any Mandatory Trigger Provision, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction
documents for any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, as applicable):      (a) Common Stock;      (b) Qualifying Warrants;   
  (c) Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; or   
  (d) Qualifying Preferred Stock;       provided  (and it being understood) that:      (i) if the APM
Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision include both Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants:      (A) such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants; and   
  (B) the Corporation may, without the consent of the holders of the Qualifying Capital Securities, amend the definition of
 APM Qualifying Securities  to eliminate Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants (but not both) from the definition if, after the issue date, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing
  
         I-3

accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards followed by the issuer becomes effective such that there
is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock or Qualifying Warrants from the definition would result in a reduction in the Corporation s earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; and      (ii) if the  APM Qualifying Securities  for any Alternative Payment
Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision include Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock:      (A) such Alternative
Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock; and      (B) the Corporation may, without the consent of the holders of the Qualifying Capital Securities, amend the definition of  APM Qualifying Securities  to eliminate Mandatorily Convertible
Preferred Stock from the definition if, after the issue date, an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting
accounting standards followed by the issuer becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock from the definition would result in a reduction in the
Corporation s earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.   
    Appropriate Federal Banking Agency   means, as to a Depositary Institution Subsidiary, the Federal bank regulatory
agency or authority that is the  appropriate Federal banking agency  (within the meaning of 12 U.S.C.   1813(q)) with respect to such Depositary Institution Subsidiary.   
    Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision   means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that have an
Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that, upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up or reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with
respect to the issuer, limit the claim of the holders of such securities to Distributions that accumulate during (A) any deferral period, in the case of securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or (B) any period in which the
issuer fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in the case of securities that have a Mandatory Trigger Provision, to:   
  (i) in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision
with respect to which the APM Qualifying Securities do not include Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 25% of the stated or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities then outstanding; and   
  (ii) in the case of any other Qualifying Capital Securities, an amount not in excess of the sum of (x) the first two
years of accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts thereon) and (y) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Preferred Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the sale of Qualifying Preferred Stock and
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that is still outstanding that the issuer has applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the Mandatory Trigger   
         I-4

Provision;  provided  that the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities are deemed to agree that, to the extent the claim for deferred interest exceeds the amount set forth in clause
(x), the amount they receive in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount they would have received had the claim for such excess ranked  pari passu  with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Preferred Stock.   
    Business Day   means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday or (b) a day on which banking institutions
in New York, New York and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.   
    Capital PCS   has the meaning specified in Recital A.   
    Commercially Reasonable Efforts   means, for purposes of selling APM Qualifying Securities, commercially reasonable
efforts to complete the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities to third parties that are not Subsidiaries in public offerings or private placements. The Corporation shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect
a sale of APM Qualifying Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.        Commission   means the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
    Common Cap   has the meaning specified in clause (e) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
       Common Stock   means common stock of the Corporation (including treasury shares and shares of common stock
issued pursuant to the Corporation s dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans).   
    Corporation   has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument;  provided  that (a) for
purposes of the definition of  Qualifying Capital Securities  and the use of the term  Corporation  within such definition and (b) as used in clauses (i) through (v) of Section 3(b), the term
 Corporation  includes any Subsidiary that is a  finance subsidiary  of the Corporation within the meaning of paragraph (h)(7) of Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X of the Commission and, accordingly, the Corporation fully and
unconditionally guarantees the securities of such Subsidiary, in which case each reference in each such definition or in such clause to long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Corporation shall include securities of such a finance
subsidiary of the Corporation and the related guarantee of the Corporation, taken together.        Covered Debt  
means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not
including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.        Covered Debtholder   means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys or holds long-term indebtedness for money
borrowed of the Corporation or its Depositary Institution Subsidiary during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt.   
         I-5

Depositary Institution Subsidiary   means any Subsidiary of the Corporation
that is a Depositary institution within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.   204.2(m).        Distribution Date   means,
as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, the dates on which Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.   
    Distribution Period   means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date
for such securities to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.   
    Distributions   means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, dividends, interest or other income distributions to the
holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries.        Eligible Debt   means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each
series of then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks senior to the Junior Subordinated Notes, (b) has an outstanding
principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (c) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents. For purposes
of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the
issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
       Federal Reserve   means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.   
    Holder   means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities
register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt and each beneficial owner holding such Covered Debt through a participant in a clearing agency.   
    Initial Covered Debt   means the Corporation s 5.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018.   
    Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure   means, as to any Qualifying Preferred Stock or Qualifying Capital Securities, that
the issuer thereof has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer under the Securities Exchange
Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer and its subsidiaries will repay, redeem, defease or purchase such securities only with the proceeds of replacement capital securities that have terms and
provisions at the time of repayment, redemption, defeasance or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable repayment, redemption, defeasance or
purchase date. Notwithstanding the use of the term  Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure  in the definitions of  Qualifying Capital Securities  and  Qualifying Preferred Stock , the requirement in each such definition
that a particular security or the related transaction documents include Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure shall be disregarded and given no force or effect for so long as the Corporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.        Junior Subordinated Notes   has the meaning specified in Recital A.
  
         I-6

Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock   means cumulative preferred stock
of the Corporation with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock within three years from
the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.        Mandatory Trigger Provision   means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that:   
  (a) require the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the
issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities within two years of a failure of the issuer to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in amount such that the net proceeds of
such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and require the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions,
 provided  that (i) if the Mandatory Trigger Provision does not require the issuance and sale within one year of such failure, the amount of Common Stock and/or Qualifying Warrants the net proceeds of which the issuer must apply to pay
such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Common Cap and (ii) the amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock and still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the Mandatory Trigger Provision the
net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Preferred Cap;      (b) if the provisions described in clause (a) do not require such issuance and sale within one year of such failure, include a Repurchase Restriction;   
  (c) prohibit the issuer of such securities from redeeming or purchasing any of its securities ranking upon the
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation junior to or  pari passu  with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the relevant deferral period prior to the date six months
after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (a) to pay such deferred Distributions in full (subject to the exceptions set forth in clauses (i) through (iii) of the definition of Repurchase Restriction);
and      (d) include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision;   
   provided  (and it being understood) that:      (i) the issuer will not be obligated to issue (or to use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
     (ii) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not
all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological
order subject to the Common Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and      (iii) if the issuer has outstanding more
than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and applies some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net
proceeds received by the issuer from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a  pro rata  basis up to the Common Cap and the Preferred Cap, as applicable, in
proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.   
         I-7

No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of such securities or
related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities as a result of the issuer s failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or
more Distribution Periods that total together at least 10 years.        Market Disruption Event   means the
occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:      (a) the Corporation would be
required to obtain the consent or approval of its shareholders or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue or sell APM Qualifying Securities and such consent or approval has not
yet been obtained notwithstanding the Corporation s commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval or the Federal Reserve instructs the Corporation not to sell or offer for sale the APM Qualifying Securities at such time;
     (b) trading in securities generally (or in the Common Stock or the Corporation s preferred stock
specifically) on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Common Stock and/or the Corporation s preferred stock is then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the
settlement of such trading generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the Commission, by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental body
having jurisdiction, and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of the APM Qualifying Securities;   
  (c) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such
moratorium materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;      (d) a material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States and such disruption materially disrupts or otherwise has a material
adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;      (e) the United
States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any
other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;   
         I-8

(f) there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general
domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, and such change materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance
and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;      (g) an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the
offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary
to make the statements therein not misleading and either (i) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, is not otherwise required by law and would have a material adverse effect on the business of
the Corporation or (ii) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, the disclosure of which would impede the ability of the Corporation to consummate such transaction,  provided 
that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (g) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (g) shall not exceed an aggregate of 90 days in any 180-day period; or
     (h) the Corporation reasonably believes, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (g) above,
that the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission and the Corporation is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly
burdensome,  provided  that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall not exceed an aggregate of 90 days in
any 180-day period.      The definition of   Market Disruption Event   as used in any Replacement Capital Securities may include
less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the Corporation at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the Corporation would otherwise
endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the Corporation s preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.   
    Market Value   means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or, if no closing sale price is
reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock
is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the
relevant date, the Market Value will be the average of the mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected for this purpose
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof.        Measurement Date   means
September 11, 2012.        Non-Cumulative   means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, that the
issuer may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.   
         I-9

Normal PCS   has the meaning specified in Recital A.   
    NRSRO   means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the
Securities Exchange Act.        Optional Deferral Provision   means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, a
provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the effect that either:      (a)
(i) the issuer of such Qualifying Capital Securities may, in its sole discretion, or shall in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more
consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing, 10 years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) such securities are subject to an Alternative Payment Mechanism
( provided  that such Alternative Payment Mechanism need not apply during the first five years of any deferral period and need not include a Common Cap, Preferred Cap, Bankruptcy Claims Limitation Provision or Repurchase Restriction); or
     (b) the issuer of such Qualifying Capital Securities may, in its sole discretion, or shall in response to a
directive or order from the Federal Reserve, defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to at least 10 years without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.
       Permitted Remedies   means, with respect to any securities, one or more of the following remedies:
     (a) rights in favor of the holders of such securities permitting such holders to elect one or more directors
of the issuer (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded); and   
  (b) complete or partial prohibitions on the issuer paying Distributions on and on the issuer and its subsidiaries
purchasing common stock or other securities that rank pari passu with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as distributions on such securities, including unpaid distributions, remain unpaid.   
    Person   means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation,
unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.        Preferred Cap  
has the meaning specified in clause (f) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.        Preferred
Stock   has the meaning set forth in Recital A.        Prospectus Supplement   has the meaning specified in
Recital B.   
         I-10

Qualifying Capital Securities   means securities (other than Common Stock,
rights to acquire Common Stock and securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) that, in the determination of the Corporation s Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement
Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria at the time the Corporation or any Subsidiary shall redeem or purchase the Securities:      (a) securities issued by the Corporation or any Subsidiary that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation to all debt of the
Corporation for borrowed money, other than trade payables and any debt that is expressly made  pari passu  with such securities in the instrument creating the same, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years and
(3) either:      (i) (x) (I) have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or are Non-Cumulative and
(II) are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, or      (ii) (y) have an Optional Deferral
Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;      (b)
securities issued by the Corporation or any Subsidiary that (1) rank  pari passu  or junior upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation to all debt of the Corporation for borrowed money, other than trade payables and
any debt that is expressly made  pari passu  with such securities in the instrument creating the same, (2) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 40 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (3) have
an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision;      (c) preferred stock of the Corporation or
any Subsidiary (a) that has no maturity or a maturity of at least 60 years, (b) that either (x) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and has a provision
that prohibits the Corporation from paying any dividends thereon upon its failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth therein, and (c) as to which the transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of
dividends other than Permitted Remedies; or      (d) in the case of any redemption or repurchase of Junior
Subordinated Notes prior to the Stock Purchase Date, Replacement Notes.        Qualifying Preferred Stock   means
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation that (a) ranks  pari passu  with or junior to all other preferred stock of the Corporation, and (b) either (x) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or
(y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and has a provision that prohibits the Corporation from paying any dividends thereon upon its failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth therein, and (c) as to which the
transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of dividends other than Permitted Remedies.   
    Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant   means a replacement capital covenant, as identified by the Corporation s
Board of Directors acting in good faith and in its reasonable discretion and reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, that is substantially similar either to this Replacement Capital Covenant or to
a replacement capital covenant (i) entered into by another company that at the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act and (ii) that restricts the related issuer and
its subsidiaries from redeeming, repaying or purchasing identified securities except to the extent of the specified percentage of the net proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the
time of redemption, repayment or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed, repaid or purchased within a specified period prior to the date the issuer gives notice of such redemption or repayment or the date of
such purchase;  provided  that (a) the period specified by such Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant may commence on any date on   
         I-11

or after the Corporation enters into such Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, (b) a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant with respect to Qualifying Preferred Stock may provide that
it terminates at any time at least 10 years after the date such Qualifying Preferred Stock is issued and (c) a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant with respect to Qualifying Capital Securities may provide that it terminates at any time on
or after June 20, 2022.        Qualifying Warrants   means net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock
that (1) have an exercise price greater than the current stock market price (as defined below) of the Common Stock as of the date it agrees to issue the warrants, and (2) the Corporation is not entitled to redeem for cash and the holders
of which are not entitled to require it to repurchase for cash in any circumstances. The Corporation will state in the prospectus or other offering document for any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or
Mandatory Trigger Provisions its intention that any Qualifying Warrants issued in accordance with such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provisions will have exercise prices at least 10% above the current stock market price of its
Common Stock on the date of issuance. The   current stock market price   of the Common Stock on any date shall be the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if
more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as
reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded. If the Common Stock is not listed on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the   current stock market price   shall be the last
quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization. If the Common Stock is not so quoted, the   current stock market price  
shall be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by it for this purpose.   
    Redesignation Date   means, as to the Covered Debt in effect at any time, the earlier of (a) the date that is two
years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt and (b) if the Corporation elects to redeem, or the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation elects to repurchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the
consequence that after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date.   
    Replacement Capital Covenant   has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.   
    Replacement Capital Securities   means Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred
Stock, Qualifying Capital Securities or Qualifying Preferred Stock.        Replacement Notes   means securities
issued by the Corporation that (1) rank  pari passu  with or junior upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation to all debt of the Corporation for borrowed money, other than trade payables and any debt that is
expressly made  pari passu  with such securities in the instrument creating the same, (2) have no maturity or mature no earlier than, and are not redeemable or prepayable at the option of the holder thereof prior to, the Stock Purchase
Date and (3) do not provide for the payment of interest or other distributions prior to the Stock Purchase Date.   
         I-12

Repurchase Restriction   means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital
Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that require the Corporation and its Subsidiaries not to redeem or purchase any of its securities ranking junior to or  pari passu  with any
APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the relevant deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid, other than the following (none of which shall be
restricted or prohibited by a Repurchase Restriction):      (i) purchases of such Securities by Subsidiaries in
connection with the distribution thereof or market-making or other secondary market activities;      (ii)
purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants; or   
  (iii) purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy Common Stock entered into
prior to the beginning of the related deferral period, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan.   
    Securities   has the meaning specified in Recital A.   
    Securities Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   
    Share Cap   has the meaning specified in clause (h) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.   
    Shares   has the meaning set forth in Recital A.   
    Stock Purchase Contract   has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.   
    Stock Purchase Contract Agreement   means the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 19, 2007, between
the Corporation and the Trust, acting through Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, as Property Trustee.        Stock
Purchase Date   has the meaning specified in the Stock Purchase Contract Agreement.        Stripped PCS  
has the meaning set forth in Recital A.        Subsidiary   means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or
other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled,
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by the Corporation.   
    Termination Date   has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).   
    Trust   has the meaning specified in Recital A.   
         I-13

</EX-99.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 bk-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 bk-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 bk-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 bk-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 bk-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 bk-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

