<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090225_10-K_edgar_data_1047122_0001193125-09-037012_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2009147</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>472013</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>54656</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1231392</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>101</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>8</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-037012.hdr.sgml : 20090225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090225110804
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-037012
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			RAYTHEON CO/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001047122
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL SYS [3812]
		IRS NUMBER:				951778500
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13699
		FILM NUMBER:		09632749

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		870 WINTER STREET
		CITY:			WALTHAM
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02451-1449
		BUSINESS PHONE:		781-522-3031

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		870 WINTER STREET
		CITY:			WALTHAM
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02451-1449

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	HE HOLDINGS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19971001

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 K06xIwAzJQz0fjqYJiUGXTMbwolx/S95lGT8V8pfwDNW3XI6XbTOJCoBk/gqMzwd
 qr4OX+3rev3eQHFbi8ge6g==

 0001193125-09-037012.txt : 20090225

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549                     FORM 10-K          
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.          
           For the transition period from
                         to
                                      Commission File Number 1-13699                     RAYTHEON COMPANY        (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)          

Delaware   
     
   95-1778500    
 
   (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)   
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    
           870 Winter Street,
Waltham, Massachusetts 02451        (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)              (781) 522-3000        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:          

Title of Each Class   
     
   Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered    
 
   Common Stock, $.01 par value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
           Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        None                    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes      No    
           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes      No                Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes        No                Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
           Large accelerated filer   
             Accelerated filer                Non-accelerated filer                Smaller reporting company           
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes      No                The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 29, 2008, was approximately $23.4 billion.            The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of February 20, 2009 was 400,119,000.             Documents incorporated by reference and made a part of this Form 10-K:  
           Portions of the Registrant s Definitive Proxy Statement
for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.          

Table of Contents  

            INDEX          

PART I      

Item 1.   
      
     Business    
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
     Risk Factors    
      
  16   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  23   
 
    Item 2.   
      
     Properties    
      
  23   
 
    Item 3.   
      
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  24   
 
    Item 4.   
      
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  25   

Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  25   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  27   
 
    Item 6.   
      
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  30   
 
    Item 7.   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  31   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
     Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  59   
 
    Item 8.   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  61   
 
    Item 9.   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  101   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  101   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
     Other Information    
      
  101   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  101   
 
    Item 11.   
      
     Executive Compensation    
      
  102   
 
    Item 12.   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  102   
 
    Item 13.   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  102   
 
    Item 14.   
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  102   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  102   

SIGNATURES     
      
  108   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

            PART I                ITEM 1. BUSINESS              General       Raytheon Company, together with its subsidiaries, is an industry leader in defense and government electronics, space, information technology and technical services. We design, develop, manufacture, integrate, support and provide a wide
range of technologically advanced products, services and solutions for principally governmental customers in the United States and abroad. We act as a prime contractor or major subcontractor on numerous defense and related programs for the U.S.
Government, which accounted for 87% of our sales in 2008.            We were founded in
1922 and are incorporated in the state of Delaware. We are the surviving company of the 1997 merger of HE Holdings, Inc. and Raytheon Company. Our principal executive offices are located at 870 Winter Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451.
           In this section, we describe our business, including our business segments,
product lines, customers, operations and other considerations. We also discuss some of our notable initiatives and achievements in 2008, such as certain key contract awards, new product introductions and acquisitions.             Business Segments       We operate in six business segments:   

Integrated Defense Systems;      

Intelligence and Information Systems;      

Missile Systems;      

Network Centric Systems;      

Space and Airborne Systems; and      

Technical Services.               Revenue and other financial information regarding our business segments is set forth on pages 43-51 of this Form 10-K.             Integrated Defense Systems (IDS)  IDS, headquartered in Tewksbury, Massachusetts,
is a global capabilities integrator specializing in space, air, surface, subsurface and homeland security solutions. IDS leverages its core domain knowledge and key capabilities in sensors, command, control and communication (C3), effects and
mission support to provide best-value solutions for warfighters and civil authorities.            In 2008, IDS, as the prime contractor for the Patriot Air   Missile Defense System, a long-range, high-altitude system designed to defeat advanced threats, provided Patriot Configuration 3 upgrades to the U.S. Army as well as major
Patriot System upgrades and sales to international customers, including the United Arab Emirates. IDS also continued to serve as the prime mission systems integrator for all electronic and combat systems of the Zumwalt Class Destroyer program (DDG
1000), successfully completing the U.S. Navy s Production Readiness Review as well as other major reviews and assessments on this program, as the program transitions to production. IDS  Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) and
Upgraded Early Warning Radar (UEWR) radars were key components in a successful missile defense deployment and in various flight tests conducted by the U.S. Missile Defense Agency (MDA). IDS also continued to develop innovative solutions for
applications in new markets, such as homeland security. IDS delivered the first sports utility vehicle-based mobile radiation detection system to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security s Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO), which will
allow the DNDO to provide flexible mobile radiation detection capability in a wide range of operational environments and will enhance border security and national defense by detecting and deterring the smuggling of nuclear materials through U.S.
ports of entry, metropolitan and other areas.            IDS  key customers include
the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and Marine Corps, the MDA and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Key international customers include Japan, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Taiwan, Australia, Germany, Korea and the United Kingdom.
        
   3   

Table of Contents  

         IDS has the following principal product
lines:         

Seapower Capability Systems (SCS) SCS is leading the U.S. Navy s Open Architecture initiative, serving as prime contractor of the Navy s newest and
most capable mission systems for the Zumwalt class destroyer under the DDG 1000 program. SCS is designing and producing DDG 1000 mission systems equipment, which includes the Total Ship Computing Environment, radar, sonar, associated electronics
systems and the software and hardware for these systems. These capabilities are planned to be leveraged across the U.S. Navy s family of ships. SCS also provides sensors and effectors for anti-submarine and mine warfare mission areas, advanced
combat systems for submarines and amphibious ships, high performance fire control systems for surface combatants and ship integration technologies for domestic and international naval and maritime customers. SCS is the integrator for the BYG-1
combat system, a system of tactical control, weapons control and tactical network subsystems, to all U.S. submarines as well as to Australia s Collins class submarines.            

National and Theater Security Programs (NTSP) NTSP provides integrated whole-life air and missile defense systems which enable warfighters to sense, detect and
engage threats through air and ground-based sensors and command and control systems as well as joint system solutions and intelligence support for air and ballistic missile defense. NTSP produces systems and solutions such as Joint Land Attack
Cruise Missile Defense Elevated Netted Sensor (JLENS), a theater-based, advanced sensor system that provides long-endurance, over-the-horizon detection and tracking capabilities required to defeat the threat of cruise missiles; Early Warning Radars,
including the X-band Family-of-Radars, which enable threat detection, precision tracking, discrimination and classification of ballistic missile threats; and Surface Launched Advanced Medium Range Air to Air Missile (SL-AMRAAM), a state-of-the-art
air defense system designed to defeat current and emerging cruise missiles and a wide range of air breathing threats.            

Patriot Programs (PP) PP, as the prime contractor, designs, develops and produces the Patriot Air   Missile Defense System, which serves as the
foundation of the U.S. Army s integrated air and missile defense against the escalating tactical ballistic missile threat. PP also provides the Patriot system to key international customers, including the Netherlands, Germany, Japan, Israel,
Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Taiwan and Greece. In addition, PP provides the HAWK XXI system, an advanced air defense system against low- to medium-altitude air threats with advanced fire control and battle management, to a wide range
of international and coalition partners.            

Civil Security and Response Programs (CSRP) CSRP provides integrated capabilities in surveillance and multi-domain awareness, knowledge management, decision
support, and information fusion through a broad range of solutions to detect, identify, track and disseminate actionable information. CSRP s current solutions include the Relocatable Over The Horizon Radar (ROTHR) system, a long range,
land-based, wide area surveillance system; the ATHENA Data Fusion system, an information infrastructure that enables the integration of a wide range of information from a variety of sensors and other sources; and the Advanced Spectroscopic Portal
(ASP), which provides the DHS with critically needed nuclear detection capability.            

Global Business Operations (GBO) GBO consists of a number of related IDS subsidiaries and programs, including Raytheon Sarcos, Raytheon Solipsys, Raytheon
Ansch tz and Raytheon Australia. These entities provide a wide spectrum of capabilities, including integrated Command and Control (C2) solutions for the domestic and international defense and homeland security markets, naval system capabilities
for military and commercial markets worldwide, netted sensor solutions which efficiently provide a single integrated picture from data provided by many sensors, and Advanced Robotics such as the Exoskeleton Robotic Suit and the Multi-Dimensional
Mobile Robot (snake). In Australia, GBO supports combat system design, development and procurement for major international programs such as the Hobart class Air Warfare Destroyer (AWD) and the Collins Class submarine. GBO leverages tools, processes
and subject matter expertise developed on major U.S. programs to provide such capabilities to IDS international locations.                Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS)  IIS, headquartered in Garland, Texas, is a leading provider of intelligence and information systems to government
and commercial customers in the U.S. Department of Defense and civil space, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), federal information technology, and homeland security markets. IIS leverages broad capabilities and expertise in signal
and image processing, geospatial intelligence, air- and  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

space-borne command and control, ground engineering support, weather and environmental management, information technology, identity management, information
assurance and homeland security. IIS capabilities play a crucial role in the integration and exploitation of large volumes of diverse information from across the intelligence community.            In 2008, IIS continued to develop its business across the intelligence community while growing into international markets and other new
opportunities. IIS expanded its existing e-Borders contract, an advanced border control and security program for the U.K. Home Office, to provide extended functionality and services for the program. IIS completed acceptance testing of the National
Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) ground station. NPOESS will be used to monitor global environmental conditions and collect and disseminate data related to weather, atmosphere, oceans, land and near-space
environments. IIS also completed significant milestones for the U.S. Air Force s Global Positioning System (GPS) next-generation Control Segment (OCX). In addition, IIS continued to expand its cyber operations and information security
capabilities, including through the acquisitions of SI Government Solutions and Telemus Solutions, Inc., two providers of strong niche capabilities who are well positioned with key customer relationships and technologies critical to cyber security
and cyber operations.            IIS  key customers include the U.S. Intelligence
Community, the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Association (NOAA), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the U.K. Home Office and the DHS.            IIS has the following principal product lines:         

Strategic Intelligence Systems (SIS) SIS provides system engineering, development, integration and life cycle support of complex, large-scale,
commercial-off-the-shelf-based systems for proprietary and commercial imaging customers. SIS serves primarily classified customers and the U.K. Home Office with the e-Borders contract.            

National Systems (NS) NS provides systems and operational support for signal intelligence (SIGINT) and multi-intelligence (multi-INT) missions. Areas of
concentration include mission/resource management, real-time mission execution, signal processing and analysis, information management and knowledge discovery, and operations, maintenance and engineering (OM E) support. NS works on large mission
systems integration projects for a variety of proprietary customers.            

Operational Technologies and Solutions (OTS) OTS provides information management systems, broadband broadcast systems and operations support through its
diverse capabilities. These capabilities include managing state-of-the-art collection systems and products for human intelligence (HUMINT), and managing large volumes of information securely and reliably. OTS primarily serves clients in the
intelligence community.            

Raytheon Information Solutions (RIS) RIS provides information technology solutions in high performance and technical computing, enterprise systems, e-Commerce,
logistics management, and scientific and engineering services. RIS is continuing to work on the U.S. VISIT program, an integrated, automated system to track the entry and exit of visitors into and out of the U.S., and the FBI National Data Exchange
program. RIS is also providing systems development and integration work at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.            

Space Systems (SS) SS provides satellite command and control software and mission and resource management, end-to-end information and network management, and
modeling and simulation capabilities to its customers. SS provides services in support of the monitoring, collection and dissemination of global environmental conditions data related to weather, atmosphere, oceans, land and near-space environment
for the NPOESS program. SS programs also include the development of a new system design for the next generation GPS-OCX.            

Tactical Intelligence Systems (TIS) TIS provides products and services relating to manned and unmanned SIGINT sensors, ground control of airborne SIGINT
sensors, multi-INT ground systems, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) ground stations and Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) battle space management. TIS programs include the Distributed Common Ground System (DCGS), a network
centric backbone for the U.S. armed forces; the Global Hawk Ground Segment, which enables the Global Hawk to provide continuous, all-weather surveillance capability to the Joint Forces; and the Consolidated Field Services program in support of the
U-2 reconnaissance aircraft.            
   5   

Table of Contents  

Information Security Solutions (ISS) ISS develops and provides cutting-edge solutions and advanced development in information security systems to protect
customers  critical information and infrastructures from the most complex threats. ISS serves both U.S. Government agencies and commercial customers. In addition to expanding in information assurance and cyber-operations areas, Raytheon intends
to leverage and incorporate the cyber-capabilities within ISS broadly across the Company, embedding information assurance technologies and know-how into many of its core solutions and products.                Missile Systems (MS)  MS, headquartered in Tucson, Arizona, is a premier developer
and producer of missile systems for the armed forces of the U.S. and other allied nations. Leveraging its key capabilities in advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high-resolution sensors, targeting and netted systems, MS develops and
supports a broad range of cutting edge weapon systems that includes missiles, smart munitions, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles, space vehicles and directed energy effectors.            In 2008, MS continued to demonstrate its missile systems capabilities with several significant test successes and contract awards. MS and
the U.S. Navy successfully conducted the first two flight tests of the Standard Missile 6 (SM-6) extended range anti-air warfare missile, which demonstrated the first successful integration of the Navy s active missile technology into a weapon
system that provides both near-term advanced anti-air warfare and future over-the-horizon capability. In addition, MS through its participation in the NetFires LLC, successfully launched the Non Line-of Sight Launch Systems (NLOS-LS) Precision
Attack Missile taking the missile system closer toward providing the warfighter a much-needed precision weapon capability. MS also successfully completed the development of the Miniature Air Launched Decoy (MALD ), a small, low-cost cruise
missile that serves as a decoy to confuse enemy sensors and received its first production contract, as well as receiving an $80 million contract for phase III risk reduction for a new radar jamming variant. MS (with partner Boeing) was awarded a
contract for the technology demonstration phase of the production contract competition for the U.S. Army and Navy Joint Air-to-Ground Missile (JAGM) program to develop a single missile solution for rotary and fixed wing platforms. MS also developed
and successfully tested the Tandem Warhead System, a new conventional warhead technology to defeat hardened and deeply buried bunkers. The MDA and the U.S. Navy completed a successful mission, intercepting a non-functioning satellite with a
specially modified Standard Missile-3. MS demonstrated innovative and low cost capability to intercept a ballistic missile during boost phase from airborne platforms resulting in the DoD funding for the Netcentric Airborne Defense Element (NCADE)
program. MS was awarded a MDA contract to continue the design and development of a Multiple Kill Vehicle (MKV-R) which will counter complex ballistic missile threats during midcourse phase of flight with multiple kill vehicles launched from a single
interceptor.            MS  key customers include the U.S. Navy, Army, Air Force and
Marine Corps, the MDA and the armed forces of more than 40 allied nations.            MS
has the following principal product lines:         

Naval Weapon Systems (NWS) NWS products and services provide layered defense capability and naval surface fire support for the navies of more than 30
countries. NWS leverages its capabilities to provide forward operating base defense for the U.S. Army and Air Force. NWS develops, manufactures and supports the Standard Missile family of weapons with capabilities ranging from anti-air warfare to
ballistic missile defense. In addition, NWS produces the Phalanx Close-in Weapon System, the Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM), SeaRAM, and the Evolved Sea Sparrow/Sparrow family of missiles for ship self-defense against air and surface threats. SeaRAM
integrates the RAM into the Phalanx mount and has been installed on the Littoral Combat Ship. NWS continues to evolve its products and technologies to encompass the full spectrum of threats, including the protection of land bases to counter
terrorist threats.            

Air Warfare Systems (AWS) AWS products and services enable U.S. Forces and its international customers to attack, suppress and destroy air and ground-based
targets. Products include the Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM), a state-of-the-art, highly dependable and battle proven air-to-air missile that also has a surface-to-air launch application; Tomahawk Cruise Missile, an advanced
surface- or sub-launched cruise missile with loitering and network communication capability; the Joint Standoff Weapon, a family of air-to-ground weapons that  
          
   6   

Table of Contents  

employ an integrated GPS/Inertial Navigation system that guides the weapon to the target; the Paveway  family of laser and GPS-guided  smart 
bombs; the AIM-9X Sidewinder; (MALD  the High-speed Anti-Radiation Missile (HARM) and the HARM Targeting System; and the Maverick precision strike missile.            

Land Combat Land Combat provides missiles to the U.S. Army and Marine Corps and more than 40 U.S. allies and focuses on accelerating the deployment of
precision munitions capability to land combat forces and expanding its mission support capabilities. Land Combat provides the Stinger weapon system for air defense, the Tube-launched Optically-guided Wire-controlled (TOW) weapon system, a long-range
precision anti-armor/anti-fortification/anti-amphibious landing weapon system; the Javelin fire-and-forget anti-tank weapon and Excalibur, a GPS-guided projectile designed to provide organic indirect precision fire for ground forces. Land Combat is
also developing the NLOS LS Precision Attack Missile, a networked weapon system for precise fire against moving and stationary targets, and the Mid Range Munition (MRM), a precision-guided, 120mm, gun-fired smart ammunition that will provide a
beyond line-of-sight capability to the Army.            

Exoatmospheric Kill Vehicle (EKV) EKV focuses on producing the exoatmospheric kill vehicle, which is the intercept component of the Ground Based Interceptor
for the Ground-based Midcourse Defense system designed to protect the U.S. against limited ballistic missile attacks and is part of the Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS). The EKV consists of a multi-spectral sensor in a flight package, used to
detect, discriminate and destroy incoming warheads carrying weapons of mass destruction.            

Other MS product lines include Kinetic Energy Interceptors (KEI), Advanced Missile Defense/Directed Energy Weapons (AMD/DEW) and Advanced Programs. KEI focuses on
designing and developing kinetic energy-based missiles that can intercept and destroy enemy ballistic missiles during their boost/ascent and mid-course phases of flight. AMD/DEW pursues opportunities in the missile defense and directed energy
markets, including the development of new missile defense solutions, NASA/space applications, modeling/simulation and discrimination capabilities, high power microwave and high energy laser systems. Advanced Programs focuses on the development and
early introduction of next generation end-to-end system solutions, architectures and mission capabilities for the warfighter.                Network Centric Systems (NCS)  NCS, headquartered in McKinney, Texas, develops and produces mission solutions for networking, command and control, battle space
awareness and transportation management. Major programs include command and control systems, integrated communications systems, netted sensor systems and homeland security, as well as civil applications and components to create these systems.
           In 2008, NCS continued developing and expanding its international business and
presence overseas. NCS had key initiatives into adjacent markets including international and domestic border security, civil communications and first responder interoperability as well as transportation solutions, including open road tolling. NCS
was awarded the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS) contract to provide an all-weather, anti-jam shipboard landing capability to the U.S. Navy, which will enable pinpoint landing accuracy. This award reinforces NCS  market
leadership position in the Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) market. In addition, NCS  Active Protection System (APS) successfully defeated multiple incoming projectiles fired simultaneously at a vehicle on the move and was named one
of TIME magazine s 50 best inventions of 2008. This capability is critical to defending our troops against rocket propelled grenades in an urban environment and is a key element in the full-spectrum suite of  hit avoidance 
technologies for the U.S. Army. NCS, as a key subcontractor to Lockheed Martin, will also co-lead the design, development and manufacture of a new radio system on the DoD s Joint Tactical Radio System Airborne Maritime and Fixed site (JTRS AMF)
contract.            NCS  key customers include the U.S. Army, Air Force, Navy and
Marine Corps, and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as well as numerous international customers.            NCS has the following principal product lines:         

Combat Systems (CS) CS provides integrated ground-based surveillance and target engagement solutions designed to provide a significant advantage to the U.S.
Army and Marine Corps warfighters. CS is developing ground  
          
   7   

Table of Contents  

sensor capabilities for the U.S. Army s Future Combat Systems program, including the APS, which uses vertical launch technology that launches an
interceptor to shoot down rocket- propelled grenades or anti-tank guided missiles coming in from any direction. In addition, CS provides the Long Range Advanced Scout Surveillance System (LRAS3), a long-range multi-sensor system which provides the
ability to detect, identify and geo-locate distant targets; the Integrated Target Acquisition System (ITAS) which increases target detection, acquisition, recognition and engagement ranges; and HTI 2nd Generation FLIR (Horizontal Technology
Integration Forward Looking Infrared) systems which provide the host vehicle the capability to detect, recognize, acquire, and engage targets at extended ranges.            

Integrated Communications Systems (ICS) ICS offers wireless, high-bandwidth and transformational communication solutions for every DoD agency, and civil and
international customers. These solutions enable connectivity for Net-centric Operations (NCO) and the Global Information Grid (GIG) and provide mission assurance to customers with satellite, point-to-point and networked communications services that
are effective on land, sea, undersea, air and space. Solutions include the Enhanced Position Location Reporting System (EPLRS), an integrated networking system that provides robust, high-speed battlefield communications for warfighters; the Secure
Mobile Anti-Jam Reliable Tactical Terminal (SMART-T), a low-cost, extremely high frequency (EHF) satellite terminal that provides robust, low probability of detection, jam-resistant, multi-channel communications in support of the field commander;
and the U.S. Navy Multi-band Terminal (NMT), a single terminal for the U.S. Navy s next generation satellite communications.            

Command and Control Systems (C2S) C2S develops, delivers and supports domestic and international military and civil customers, including the FAA, Department of
Transportation and DoD, with integrated networked command and control (C2) systems encompassing ground, air, space and security systems which are designed to securely capture, present and tailor actionable knowledge in real-time to the needs of
decision makers (i.e. military commander, air traffic controller, border patrol) to minimize information overload and enable rapid decisions. C2S ground, air and space capabilities include integrated communications, navigation, surveillance, air
traffic management, and open road tolling systems. C2S products include the U.S. Army s Advanced Field Artillery Tactical Data System (AFATDS) and Joint Automated Deep Operations Coordination System (JADOCS), which provide for the command and
control of battlefield fires, effects and operations. C2S also is continuing to develop advanced airspace management capabilities with the FAA certified Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japan s Multifunction Transport Satellite-based
Augmentation System (MSAS) and India s GPS-Aided GEO Augmented Navigation (GAGAN) to improve airspace design flexibility and efficiency by removing route dependency on ground-based navigational aids. C2S is developing open road tolling systems
for both the Florida Turnpike Toll System and the Texas Department of Transportation. Additionally, C2S is developing and implementing the Perimeter Intrusion Detection System (PIDS) at four airports under the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey, and executing programs for Middle East-based commercial, oil, gas and petrochemical companies to improve security of their most critical infrastructure.            

Thales-Raytheon Systems, LLC (TRS) TRS is a joint venture between Thales Group and Raytheon. TRS combines the two companies  capabilities in Air Command
and Control Systems (ACCS), Air Operations Centers, Battlefield Weapon Locating Radars and Military Air Surveillance Radars to provide cost-effective solutions for military air operations centers and joint operations centers. Solutions include the
Firefinder Weapon Locating Radar system for the U.S. Army and international customers, the U.S. Battle Control System (BCS), a next-generation air sovereignty command and control system, and the NATO Air Command and Control System (ACCS).

Precision Technologies and Components (PTC) PTC provides a broad range of imaging capabilities, including next-generation Xray, visible, infrared, and
millimeter wave focal plane arrays for thermal imaging, earth remote sensing and astronomy applications, as well as precision optical and electronic solutions, electronic hardware and software products that enhance the interoperability of
communications systems, through its Raytheon Vision Systems and ELCAN products. PTC also designs and manufactures strategic mechanical products and provides related services through its Raytheon Precision Manufacturing products. Customers include
the DoD, NASA, and international customers.                Space and
Airborne Systems (SAS)  SAS, headquartered in El Segundo, California, is a leader in the design and development of integrated systems and solutions for advanced missions, including traditional and non-traditional  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations, special forces operations and space. Leveraging advanced
concepts, state-of-the-art technologies and mission systems knowledge, SAS provides electro-optic/infrared sensors, airborne radars for surveillance and fire control applications, lasers, precision guidance systems, electronic warfare systems and
space-qualified systems for civilian and military applications.            In 2008, SAS demonstrated the Advanced Distributed Aperture System (ADAS), a high-definition situational awareness
capability for helicopter aircrews, in conjunction with the U.S. Army Night Vision Electronic Systems directorate. SAS and the U.K. Ministry of Defence successfully completed capabilities assurance mission testing of the Airborne Stand-Off Radar
(ASTOR) system, a world-class ground surveillance capability, prior to the system entering into service with the Royal Air Force. In July, SAS delivered its 100   th    APG-79 active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar system to The Boeing Company and the U.S. Navy for use on F/A-18 and EA-18G aircraft. SAS also has been working on software and design development initiatives
for the F-15E modernization program under a prime contract with Boeing for the U.S. Air Force. Additionally, SAS completed the manufacture and testing of the optics detector module for the Aerosol Polarimetry Sensor (APS), which will ride on the
NASA Glory satellite to enable a better understanding of the impact of aerosols on global warming and climate change.            SAS  key customers include the U.S. Navy, Air Force and Army, as well as classified and international customers.            SAS has the following principal product lines:         

Tactical Airborne Systems (TAS) TAS designs and manufactures cost-effective, high-performance integrated avionics to offer new capabilities to next generation
platforms, and the global base of tactical airborne systems. TAS provides solutions using advanced fire control radars, electronic warfare systems, processor solutions and technologies to customers including the U.S. Navy and Air Force and foreign
governments. TAS produces radars using either mechanically scanned or AESA antennas for the U.S. Air Force s F-15 and B-2 aircraft and for the U.S. Navy s F/A-18 fighter jet. TAS also provides electronic warfare equipment for aircraft and
shipboard self-protection systems to counter threats and enhance platform and force survivability, including ALE-50 and Advanced Towed Decoys, and ALR-67(V)3 Radar Warning Receiver. In addition, TAS  advanced airborne processors form the basis
of the mission computer/signal processing systems in the F-16, F-22 and F-35 aircraft.            

Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Systems (ISRS) ISRS designs and manufactures sensor, surveillance and targeting solutions that enable actionable
information and persistence across the battlespace. ISRS provides maritime surveillance radars, terrain following/terrain avoidance (TF/TA) radars and electro-optical and infrared sensors for surveillance, reconnaissance and targeting mission
support, including the APY-10 radar for the U.S. Navy s Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft, and the ASQ-228 ATFLIR targeting pod for the F/A-18. ISRS also provides the Enhanced Integrated Sensor Suite (EISS) for the Global Hawk unmanned aerial
system, which enables Global Hawk to scan large geographic areas and produce outstanding high-resolution reconnaissance imagery. In addition, ISRS provides integrated solutions for all tiers of airborne intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance
systems, including the dual mode Synthetic Aperture Radar/Moving Target Indicator (SAR/MTI) sensor for the ASTOR program for the U.K. Ministry of Defence, which enables high-resolution images and the monitoring of hostile forces.

Space Systems (SS) SS designs and manufactures space and space-qualified sensor payloads for large national programs and develops innovative solutions for
emerging intelligence, defense, and civil space applications. SS customers and programs are predominantly classified. Its non-classified programs include the Visible Infrared Imager Radiometer Suite (VIIRS), which will provide advanced imaging and
radiometric capabilities onboard the National Polar- orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS), and the Advanced Responsive Tactically Effective Military Imaging Spectrometer (ARTEMIS), a sophisticated hyperspectral imaging sensor
for the Operationally Responsive Space (ORS) Office s flagship Tactical Satellite program.            

Other SAS product lines include Advanced Concepts and Technologies (ACT) and Integrated Technology Programs (ITP). ACT conducts internal research and development
for SAS and contract research and development for customers, including the Air Force Research Lab and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). ITP provides a wide range of state-of-the-art product families and engineering services in
support of the DoD s recent  
          
   9   

Table of Contents  

efforts to transform the capabilities and structure of the U.S. armed forces, including a variety of sophisticated GPS systems and anti-jam solutions for
many customers, including the U.S. Air Force and Navy.                Technical Services (TS)  TS, headquartered in Reston, Virginia, provides technical, scientific and professional services, as well as a full-spectrum of training services and outsourcing for defense, federal and commercial
customers worldwide. It specializes in Mission Support, counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism, range operations, product support, homeland security solutions, and customized engineering services. Mission Support is Raytheon s integrated
set of cost effective technologies, solutions and services that support our customers, ensuring operational readiness to achieve mission success.            In 2008, TS continued to expand its Global Training Solutions capabilities and offerings. TS led a team that secured the Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solution
(ATCOTS) contract to maintain and improve air traffic controller (ATC) training and support the FAA in meeting current and future ATC demands. In addition to providing training and training support to the FAA s U.S. air traffic control
workforce, Raytheon supports training for NASA astronauts, and almost every General Motors technician and active U.S. Army warfighter. The TS-led Warrior Training Alliance, which operates the Warfighter Field Operations Customer Support (FOCUS)
program to consolidate the U.S. Army live, virtual and constructive training operations and support systems worldwide, successfully completed the program transition period in May and, since that time, has supported the training of warfighters at
more than 400 locations worldwide.            TS  key customers include all branches
of the U.S. Armed Forces, NASA, the FAA, the U.S. National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), the Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) and other agencies of the DHS, as well as
international governments.            TS has the following principal product lines:

Integrated Support Solutions (ISS) ISS, which supports systems and products from design to deployment provides mission systems and homeland security solutions,
threat reduction and international operations and product support. ISS provides a range of capabilities including engineering services, field support, integrated logistics support, training, maintenance, installation and integration for U.S. and
international government customers and contractors. ISS also specializes in the installation, diagnostics, maintenance and upgrades of Raytheon products and systems at customer facilities and works with the FAA and TSA on select domestic homeland
security programs. ISS provides maintenance and site integration work on major command and control systems, and has provided telecommunication upgrades at over 5,000 FAA facilities nationwide. ISS provides support to NASA s Neutral Buoyancy Lab
and Space Vehicle Mockup Facility at the Johnson Space Center, and also works with DTRA on international counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism programs in the former Soviet Union.            

Customized Engineering   Depot Support (CEDS) CEDS provides a broad spectrum of engineering and
limited-production services. CEDS provides Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI     ) level 5 software engineering and level 3 systems engineering. For the overall V-22 Osprey aircraft
program, CEDS manages the Systems Integration Lab, leads the software support activity, performs updates to operational flight profile software, provides mission planning software, and provides training devices. CEDS provides mission systems and
avionics software for the U.S. Marine Corps  MV-22 assault aircraft and the U.S. Air Force s CV-22 aircraft. CEDS also designed and provides integration and field support for the Shared Reconnaissance Pod, which provides real-time,
high-resolution imaging to F/A-18E/F air crews and air operation commanders in support of pre-mission intelligence, post-mission damage assessment and real-time target tasking and retasking. CEDS also provides full lifecycle support for electronics
and weapons, both sea and land based. CEDS performs support on numerous platforms including the Firefinder Battlefield Radar, WSC-6 surface search radar, Seasparrow launcher MK 29 Guided Missile Launching System, Kidd Class Destroyer and the
U.S. Navy s Extremely High Frequency Satellite Program, which is a performance-based logistics program. CEDS also supports the National Ignition Facility at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, which develops advanced laser and fusion
technologies. CEDS, through a Canadian subsidiary, also provides mission support to Canada s military across numerous platforms including the Phalanx Weapons System, SPS-49 Air Defense Radar and the APG-73 Radar.      

Warfighter FOCUS   The TS-led Warrior Training Alliance (WTA) operates the Warfighter FOCUS program to consolidate the U.S. Army live, virtual and
constructive training operations and support systems worldwide. TS is  
          
   10   

Table of Contents  

leading a team of more than 100 subcontractors on this 10-year program. The WTA provides integrated turnkey, lifecycle training services and support
worldwide. Work performed by the WTA includes: support for training exercises and operations; maintenance for all training and range systems; curriculum development and instruction; management oversight and administration for contractor activities;
and supply support for all government-owned property and material.            

Raytheon Professional Services (RPS) RPS provides learning services and outsourcing services aimed at improving its clients  performance by redesigning
how clients train their personnel, implementing new training designs, and managing their training in long-term outsourcing engagements. RPS clients include General Motors, Whirlpool, Barclays Bank, Nokia, Pfizer and NASA.

Raytheon Polar Services Raytheon Polar is the prime operations and logistics contractor to the National Science Foundation to support scientific research and
maintain a geopolitical presence in Antarctica. It provides core business applications, information security processes and oversight in accordance with stringent federal guidelines.                International Subsidiaries  We conduct the operations and activities of our
business segments in certain countries through international subsidiaries, including Raytheon Systems Limited (RSL) for the U.K., Raytheon Australia and Raytheon Canada Limited (RCL). RSL designs, develops and manufactures advanced systems for
network-enabled operations, safety critical control functions and precision systems for the U.K. Ministry of Defence and commercial air traffic control organizations. Programs include e-Borders, an advanced border control and security program (with
IIS), the Airborne Standoff Radar (ASTOR), a world-class ground surveillance capability (with SAS) and the Joint Effects Tactical Targeting System (JETTS) (with NCS). Raytheon Australia is a Mission Support and mission systems integration provider
to the Australian Government. Programs include the Air Warfare Destroyer contract to design, develop and procure the combat system for the new Hobart Class destroyers (with IDS). Raytheon Australia also manages the entire operations and maintenance
requirements of the Canberra Deep Space Communication Complex and provides design, integration and lifecycle operations and maintenance services for the Royal Australian Defense Force s aerospace capability (with TS). RCL provides persistent
surveillance radar for air traffic management systems (primarily with NCS).             Sales to
the U.S. Government       Our net sales to the U.S. Government, principally the DoD, were $20.2 billion in 2008, $18.3 billion in 2007 and $17.0 billion in
2006, representing 87%, 86% and 86% of total sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in U.S. Government sales were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.             U.S. Government Contracts and Regulation       We act as a prime contractor or major subcontractor for numerous U.S. Government programs. As a result, we are subject to extensive regulations and requirements of the
U.S. Government agencies and entities which govern these programs, including with respect to the award, administration and performance of contracts under such programs. We are also subject to certain unique business risks associated with the U.S.
Government program funding and appropriations and government contracts and with supplying technologically-advanced, cutting edge defense-related products and services to the U.S. Government.            U.S. Government contracts generally are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR),
which sets forth policies, procedures and requirements for the acquisition of goods and services by the U.S. Government, agency-specific regulations that implement or supplement FAR, such as the DoD s Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
(DFAR) and other applicable laws and regulations. These regulations impose a broad range of requirements, many of which are unique to government contracting, including various procurement, import and export, security, contract pricing and cost,
contract termination and adjustment, and audit requirements. A contractor s failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions to the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the
assessment of penalties and fines and lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. In addition, government contractors are also subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S.
Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the
contractor s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. For a discussion of certain risks associated with compliance with U.S. Government contract regulations and requirements, see Item 1A  Risk
Factors  of this Form 10-K.            U.S. Government contracts include both cost
reimbursement and fixed price contracts. Cost reimbursement contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus the payment of a fee. These contracts fall into three basic types:
(i) cost plus fixed fee contracts which provide for the payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance, (ii) cost plus incentive fee contracts which provide for increases or decreases in the fee, within specified
limits, based upon actual results as compared to contractual targets relating to such factors as cost, performance and delivery schedule, and (iii) cost plus award fee contracts which provide for the payment of an award fee determined at the
discretion of the customer based upon the performance of the contractor against pre-established criteria. Under cost reimbursement type contracts, the contractor is reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and is paid a portion of the fee based
on contract progress. Some costs incident to performing contracts have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute, FAR or other regulation. Examples of such costs include charitable contributions, certain merger and
acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs.            Fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under firm fixed-price contracts, the contractor agrees to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed price and as a
result, benefits from cost savings and carries the burden of cost overruns. Under fixed-price incentive contracts, the contractor shares with the government savings accrued from contracts performed for less than target costs and costs incurred in
excess of targets up to a negotiated ceiling price (which is higher than the target cost) and carries the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, the contractor s profit may
also be adjusted up or down depending upon whether specified performance objectives are met. Under firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive type contracts, the contractor usually receives either milestone payments equaling up to 90% of the
contract price or monthly progress payments from the government generally in amounts equaling 80% of costs incurred under government contracts. The remaining amount, including profits or incentive fees, is billed upon delivery and acceptance of end
items under the contract. For a discussion of certain risks associated with fixed price and cost reimbursement contracts, see Item 1A  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.            U.S. Government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the
government s convenience or for default based on performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its allowable costs and will receive some allowance for profit on the work
performed. If a contract is terminated for default, the contractor is generally entitled to payments for its work that has been accepted by the government. The U.S. Government s right to terminate its contracts has not had a material adverse
effect upon our operations or financial condition. For a discussion of the risks associated with the U.S. Government s right to terminate its contracts, see Item 1A  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.            U.S. Government programs generally are implemented by the award of individual contracts and
subcontracts. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend across several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as
Congress makes further appropriations. The contracts and subcontracts under a program generally are subject to termination for convenience or adjustment if appropriations for such programs are not available or change. The U.S. Government is required
to equitably adjust a contract price for additions or reductions in scope or other changes ordered by it. For a discussion of the risks associated with program funding and appropriations, see Item 1A  Risk Factors  and
 Overview  within Item 7 of this Form 10-K. In addition, because we are engaged in supplying technologically-advanced, cutting edge defense-related products and services to the U.S. Government, we are subject to certain business
risks, some of which are specific to our industry. These risks include: the cost of obtaining and retaining trained and skilled employees; the uncertainty and instability of prices for raw materials and supplies; the problems associated with
advanced designs, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; and the intense competition and the constant necessity for improvement in facilities and personnel training. Our sales to the U.S. Government may be
affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, changing concepts of national defense, political developments  
       
   12   

Table of Contents  

abroad and other factors. See Item 1A  Risk Factors  and  Overview  within Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a more detailed
discussion of these and other related risks.            We are also involved in U.S.
Government programs, principally through our IIS and SAS business segments, which are classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described in this Form 10-K. The operating results of these classified programs are included in our
consolidated financial statements. The business risks and considerations associated with these classified programs generally do not differ materially from those of our other U.S. Government programs and products.            We are subject to government regulations and contract requirements which may differ from U.S.
Government regulation with respect to our sales to non-U.S. customers. See  International Sales  on page 14 of this Form 10-K for more information regarding our sales outside of the U.S. and Item 1A  Risk Factors  for a
discussion of the risks associated with international sales.            See  Sales
to the U.S. Government  on page 11 of this Form 10-K for information regarding the percentage of our revenues generated from sales to the U.S. Government.             Backlog       Our backlog of orders was $38.9 billion
at December 31, 2008 and $36.6 billion at December 31, 2007. The 2008 amount includes backlog of approximately $33.0 billion from the U.S. Government compared with $30.2 billion at the end of 2007. Approximately $4.5 billion and $0.5
billion of the 2008 backlog amount represents direct foreign government backlog and non-government foreign backlog, respectively. Approximately $20.6 billion of the 2008 year-end backlog is not expected to be filled during the following twelve
months. These amounts include both funded backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated or obligated
to us). For additional information related to backlog figures, see  Segment Results  within Item 7 of this Form 10-K.             Research and Development       We conduct extensive research and development
activities to continually enhance our existing products and services and develop new products and services to meet our customers  changing needs and requirements and address new market opportunities. During 2008, we expended $517 million on
research and development efforts compared with $502 million in 2007 and $464 million in 2006. These expenditures principally have been for product development for the U.S. Government, including bid and proposal efforts related to U.S. Government
programs. We also conduct funded research and development activities under U.S. Government contracts which are included in net sales. For additional information related to our research and development activities, see  Note 1: Accounting
Policies  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.             Raw Materials, Suppliers and
Seasonality       We are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in
our products. Some products require relatively scarce raw materials. In addition, we must comply with specific procurement requirements which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, for a variety of
reasons, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. We enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems. We generally have not
experienced material difficulties in procuring the necessary raw materials, components and other supplies for our products.            In recent years, our revenues in the second half of the year have generally exceeded revenues in the first half. The timing of U.S. Government awards, the availability of
U.S. Government funding and product deliveries are among the factors affecting the periods in which revenues are recorded. We expect this trend to continue in 2009.             Competition       We directly participate in most major
areas of development in the defense and government electronics, space, information technology and technical services and support markets. Technical superiority, reputation, price, past performance, delivery schedules, financing and reliability are
among the principal competitive factors considered by  
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

customers in these markets. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and international companies in these markets, some of which may have more extensive or
more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. The on-going consolidation of the U.S. and global defense, space and aerospace industries continues to intensify competition and has reduced the number
of principal prime contractors in the U.S. As a result of this consolidation, we frequently partner on various programs with our major suppliers, some of whom are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. In addition, projected U.S. defense
spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. Changes in U.S. defense spending may potentially limit certain future market opportunities. See Item 1A  Risk Factors  and  Overview 
within Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of these and other related risks.             Patents and Licenses       We own an intellectual property portfolio which includes many United States and foreign patents, as well
as unpatented know-how, trademarks and copyrights, all of which contribute to the preservation of our competitive position in the market. In certain instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property
of others. We also license our intellectual property to others. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of Raytheon, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property
right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business, taken as a whole.             Employment       As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 73,000 employees.
Approximately 8% of our employees are unionized. We consider our union-management relationships to be generally satisfactory.             International Sales       Our sales to customers outside the U.S. were $4.6 billion
or 20% of total sales in 2008, $4.2 billion or 20% of total sales in 2007 and $3.7 billion or 19% of total sales in 2006. Included in sales to customers outside the U.S. were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $1.8 billion, $1.5
billion and $1.3 billion, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. International sales were principally in the fields of air defense systems, missile systems, airborne radars, naval systems, air traffic control systems, missile defense systems,
electronic equipment, computer software and systems, homeland security solutions, personnel training, equipment maintenance and microwave communication and other products and services permitted under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations.
Generally, we finance our foreign subsidiary working capital requirements in the applicable countries. Sales and income from international operations and investments are subject to changes in currency values, domestic and foreign government laws,
regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from U.S. Government regulation, including import-export control, investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and requirements to expend a portion of program funds
in-country, embargoes and international hostilities. Exchange restrictions imposed by various countries could restrict the transfer of funds between countries and between Raytheon and its subsidiaries. We have acted to protect ourself against most
undue risks through insurance, foreign exchange contracts, contract provisions, government guarantees or progress payments. See revenues derived from external customers and long-lived assets by geographical areas set forth in  Note 16: Business
Segment Reporting  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.            In connection
with certain foreign sales, we utilize the services of sales representatives who are paid commissions in return for services rendered.            The export from the U.S. of many of our products may require the issuance of a license by either the U.S. Department of State under the Arms Export Control Act of 1976
(formerly the Foreign Military Sales Act), the U.S. Department of Commerce under the Export Administration Act and its implementing regulations as kept in force by the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977 (IEEPA), and/or the U.S.
Department of the Treasury under IEEPA or the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917. Such licenses may be denied for reasons of U.S. national security or foreign policy. In the case of certain exports of defense equipment and services, the Department
of State must notify Congress at least 15-60 days (depending on the identity of the country that will utilize the equipment and services) prior to authorizing such exports. During that time, the Congress may take action to block or delay a proposed
export by joint resolution which is subject to Presidential veto.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

         Additional information regarding the risks
associated with our international business is contained in Item 1A  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.             Environmental Regulation       Our operations are subject to and affected by a
variety of federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations. We have provided for the estimated cost to complete remediation where we have determined that it is probable that we will incur such costs in the future to address
the environmental impact at current or formerly owned operating facilities or at sites where we have been named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similarly designated by other environmental
agencies. It is difficult to estimate the timing and ultimate amount of environmental cleanup costs to be incurred in the future due to the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup and the status of the law, regulations and their
interpretations.            In order to assess the potential impact on our consolidated
financial statements, we estimate the possible remediation costs that we could reasonably incur. Such estimates take into consideration the professional judgment of our environmental professionals and, in most cases, consultations with outside
environmental specialists.            If we are ultimately found to have liability at
those sites where we have been designated a PRP, we expect that the actual costs of remediation will be shared with other liable PRPs. Generally, PRPs that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site clean-up and
usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation of hazardous materials. Under existing environmental laws, however, responsible parties may be jointly and severally liable and,
therefore, potentially liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. In the unlikely event that we are required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of contribution from the
other PRPs. The amounts we record do not reflect the unlikely event that we would be required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, nor do they reflect the possibility that we may recover some of these environmental costs from insurance
policies or from other PRPs, because neither manner of recovery is deemed probable. However, a substantial portion of these costs are eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government.   
        We manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the U.S. Government. At such
facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs have historically been the primary responsibility of the government and we relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. While the
government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance are typically borne by either the government or the
contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. Fines and penalties are unallowable costs under the contracts pursuant to which such facilities are managed.       
     Most of the laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a criminal violation of certain federal environmental
statutes, including the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation would be placed by the EPA on the  Excluded Parties List  maintained by the Government Services Administration. The
listing would continue until the EPA concluded that the cause of the violation had been cured. Listed facilities cannot be used in performing any U.S. Government contract awarded during any period of listing by the EPA.            Additional information regarding the effect of compliance with environmental protection
requirements and the resolution of environmental claims against Raytheon and its operations is contained in Item 1A  Risk Factors,  Item 3  Legal Proceedings,   Commitments and Contingencies  within
Item 7 and  Note 11: Commitments and Contingencies  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.             Available Information and Stock Exchange Certification       Our Internet address is www.raytheon.com. The content on our website is
available for informational purposes only. You should not rely upon such content for investment purposes and such content is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.               
   15   

Table of Contents  

         We make available free of charge on or
through our Internet website under the heading  Investor Relations,  our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make available on or through our website copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our Governance Principles, Certificate of
Incorporation, By-laws and charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Governance and Nominating Committee and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors and our code of ethics entitled
 Standards of Business Ethics and Conduct . Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from our Investor Relations Department by writing to Raytheon Company, Investor Relations, 870 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, or by
calling (781) 522-5123 or by sending an email request to invest@raytheon.com.            We filed our annual CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange on June 17, 2008.               ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS             This Form 10-K and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our 2009 financial outlook, future plans, objectives,
business prospects and anticipated financial performance including our liquidity and capital resources and our pension expense. You can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as  will,   believe, 
 anticipate,   expect,   estimate,   intend,   plan,  or variations of these words, or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only
our current expectations regarding such matters. These statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. Our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements.
Specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given
these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends
to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them.              We depend on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our business and changes
in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business.              In 2008, U.S. Government sales accounted for approximately 87% of our total net sales. U.S. Government sales included foreign military sales through the U.S. Government
of $1.8 billion in 2008. Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). The funding of our
programs is subject to the overall U.S. Government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. The overall level of
U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the DoD s military transformation initiatives. Looking forward, based on the enacted levels of
funding for the DoD for fiscal year 2009, we expect continued robust levels of defense spending in the near-term. However, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near-term
due to numerous factors. We believe that the DoD budget and priorities will be affected by several factors, including the following:   

External threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries;

Funding for on-going operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the DoD base budget for their duration;

Future priorities of the new Administration which could result in significant changes in the DoD budget overall and various allocations within the budget; and

The overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances.                  
   16   

Table of Contents  

         Significant changes in defense spending
could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. In addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations
and financial condition.              Our financial performance is dependent on our
ability to perform our U.S. Government contracts which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination.              Our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our U.S. Government contracts. While we are involved in numerous programs and are party to thousands of
U.S. Government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts,
could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. Government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our
contracts.            The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional
appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as
Congress makes further appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which
could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. Government s fiscal year, Congress may pass a
continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such period (or
until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in procurement of products and services due to lack of funding, and such delays can affect our results of operations during the period of delay.            In addition, U.S. Government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the
contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs
and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination arising out of our
default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. Furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate the
prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor.            Our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacture of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. New technologies may be
untested or unproven. In some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. As a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product
failures, in connection with performing our government contracts.              Our
international sales are a growing portion of our business; accordingly, we may increasingly become subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.         
     Our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business and our exposure to such risks may
increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. Our international business is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and
potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy.            Our international sales are also subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from U.S. Government regulation,
including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. Our international contracts may include requirements on specific
in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support obligations, known as offsets, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. We also are  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international
subcontractors, partners and suppliers in connection with international programs. As a result of these factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international programs and could incur losses on such programs which could negatively
impact our results of operations and financial condition.              We may not be
successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments.              Due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products
outside of the U.S. For example, the U.S. Department of State must notify Congress at least 15-60 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments.
During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales.
Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.              Competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share.              We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and
marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. We anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against
us. In addition, as discussed in more detail above, projected U.S. defense spending levels for periods beyond the near-term are uncertain and difficult to predict. Changes in U.S. defense spending may potentially limit certain future market
opportunities. We are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. Additionally, some customers, including the DoD, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than
traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could
negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.              Our
future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets.              To achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and
technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:   

Identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets;      

Identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current or future markets;      

Develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets;      

Enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors;      

Develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and      

Effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements and other forms of alliances, to reflect the competitive environment.
              We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the
future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other
teaming arrangements. These expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. Due to the design
complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, there
can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. Furthermore,
we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products.  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

The possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. If we
fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results
of operations and financial condition.              We enter into fixed-price and
other contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we experience cost growth that cannot be billed to customers.              Generally, our customer contracts are either fixed-priced or cost reimbursable contracts. Under fixed-priced contracts, which represent about half of our backlog, we
receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we must carry the burden of any cost overruns. Due to their nature, fixed-priced contracts inherently have more risk than cost reimbursable contracts, particularly
fixed-price development contracts where the costs to complete the development stage of the program can be highly variable, uncertain and difficult to estimate. Under cost reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases,
we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. If our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for
all such costs and our fees may be reduced or eliminated. Because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. Under both types of contracts,
if we are unable to control costs or if our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms
specified in those contracts then we may not realize their full benefits. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations.              Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government.
             As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and
investigations by U.S. Government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards.
The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs
found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative
sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if
allegations of impropriety were made against us.              As a U.S. Government
contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.              Government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. If procurement requirements
change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins.            In addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our
results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes
for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs,
and foreign corruption. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation
and ability to procure other government contracts in the future.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

           We depend on component availability,
subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services.              We are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with
applicable terms and conditions. Some products require relatively scarce raw materials. We are generally subject to specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, we
are dependent on sole-source suppliers. If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. While we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take
other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. In addition, some of our suppliers or subcontractors may be
impacted by the recent global financial crisis, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us. If we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer
obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. We could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. Any of these
events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.              We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.              Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions
in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our
contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected
increases in wages and prices for materials; consider whether the intent of entering into multiple contracts was effectively to enter into a single project in order to determine whether such contracts should be combined or segmented; consider
incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and
profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the
underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition.              We use estimates and assumptions in accounting for our pension and other benefit plans, which are evaluated and updated on an annual
basis. Changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term return on assets (ROA), as well as our actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors could affect our earnings, equity
and pension contributions in future periods.              We must determine our
pension and other benefit plans  expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rate, long-term ROA and other actuarial assumptions. If our assumptions change significantly due to changes in
economic, legislative, and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans  expense and funded status, and our cash contributions to such plans could negatively change which would negatively impact our results of
operations. In addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our long-term ROA assumption would result in a change to our pension and other benefit plans  expense and funded status and our required contributions to the plans.
           For a complete discussion regarding how our financial statements can be
affected by pension and other benefit plan accounting policies, see  Critical Accounting Estimates  on page 35 within Item 7 of this Form 10-K.         
    We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties.     
        In pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider
potential investments and acquisitions. In evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain
other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and
resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses.              We have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve
risks and uncertainties.              We have entered, and expect to continue to
enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements. These activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to
us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such
conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements.              Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations.              At December 31, 2008, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.1
billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 52% of our total assets. Our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be
impaired. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time,
we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect
the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill
or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.              The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable
and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.              We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. These matters may divert financial and management
resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously,
no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity.              We depend on the recruitment and retention of
qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business.              Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive
officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful
in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. The loss of key employees, our
inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

           Our business could be negatively
impacted by security threats and other disruptions.              As a U.S. defense
contractor, we face certain security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, and threats to physical security. These types of events could disrupt
our operations, require significant management attention and resources, and could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.              Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our
business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.              Approximately 5,600 of our employees are unionized, which represents approximately 8% of our employee-base at December 31, 2008. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot
predict how stable our union relationships will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our
workforce. Work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.              We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could
affect our ability to compete.              We own many U.S. and foreign patents
and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, trademarks and copyrights. The U.S. Government has licenses under certain of our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government
contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. There can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated,
misappropriated or circumvented by third parties. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. In the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially
reasonable terms. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and prevent disclosure of our
proprietary information. These measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or third party development of similar technologies. Moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be
as advantageous to us as the remedies available under U.S. law.              Our
operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities.              We use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by
hazardous substance releases and exposures. For example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related personal injury or
 toxic tort  claims.            We are also subject to increasingly stringent
laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned
facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational
changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. In addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the Federal Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act, the facility involved in the
violation could not be used in performing any U.S. Government contract awarded during the violation period. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and
regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on
our financial condition or results of operations.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

           We face certain significant risk
exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance.              A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur
significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, border security systems, and air traffic management systems. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may be entitled to
indemnification from our customers, either through contractual provisions, qualification of our products and services by the Department of Homeland Security under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, or otherwise. While we
maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Accordingly, we
may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.              Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.   
           We are subject to income taxes in the United States and many foreign
jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses,
thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, we regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be
materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability.               ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS             None.               ITEM 2. PROPERTIES             We operate in a number of plants, laboratories, warehouses
and office facilities in the United States and abroad.            As of December 31,
2008, we owned, leased or utilized through operating agreements approximately 30.3 million square feet of floor space for manufacturing, engineering, research, administration, sales and warehousing, approximately 92% of which was located in the
United States. Approximately 43% of this amount was owned (or held under a long term ground lease with ownership of the improvements), approximately 52% was leased and approximately 5% was made available under facilities contracts for use in the
performance of U.S. Government contracts. Of the 30.3 million square feet of floor space owned, leased or utilized through operating agreements by us, approximately 1.2 million square feet was subleased to unrelated third parties. In
addition to the 30.3 million square feet, we had approximately 0.6 million square feet of floor space that was vacant.            There are no major encumbrances on any of our facilities other than financing arrangements which in the aggregate are not material. Management believes our properties
have been well maintained, are suitable and adequate for us to operate at present levels, and the productive capacity and extent of utilization of the facilities are appropriate for our existing real estate requirements.            As of December 31, 2008, our business segments had major operations at the following
locations:   

Integrated Defense Systems Huntsville, AL; San Diego, CA; Andover, MA; Billerica, MA; Sudbury, MA; Tewksbury, MA; Woburn, MA; Maple Lawn, MD; Portsmouth, RI;
Keyport, WA; and Kiel, Germany.      

Intelligence and Information Systems Aurora, CO; Riverdale, MD; Omaha, NE; State College, PA; Garland, TX; Falls Church, VA; Reston, VA; Springfield, VA; and
Uxbridge, England.            
   23   

Table of Contents  

Missile Systems East Camden, AR; Tucson, AZ; Rancho Cucamonga, CA; Louisville, KY; and Farmington, NM.      

Network Centric Systems Fullerton, CA; Goleta, CA; Largo, FL; Ft. Wayne, IN; Marlboro, MA; Towson, MD; Dallas, TX; McKinney, TX; Plano, TX; Richardson, TX;
Midland, Ontario, Canada; Waterloo, Ontario, Canada; Harlow, England; Malaga, Spain; and Glenrothes, Scotland.      

Space and Airborne Systems El Segundo, CA; Goleta, CA; Forest, MS; Dallas, TX; and McKinney, TX.      

Technical Services Chula Vista, CA; Van Nuys, CA; Orlando, FL; Indianapolis, IN; Burlington, MA; Troy, MI; Norfolk, VA; Reston, VA; Canberra, Australia; and
Christchurch, New Zealand.      

Corporate Billerica, MA; Waltham, MA; Garland, TX; Plano, TX; and Arlington, VA.               A summary of the square feet of space owned, leased and utilized by us as of
December 31, 2008, by business segment is as follows:         

(1)    
    Ownership may include either fee ownership of land and improvements or a long term land lease with ownership of
improvements.      

(2)    
    Space utilized by us pursuant to an operating agreement (e.g. government-owned, contractor-operated).
     
             ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS             We primarily engage in providing products and services under contracts with the U.S.
Government and, to a lesser degree, under direct foreign sales contracts, some of which the U.S. Government funds. These contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time to time, agencies of the U.S. Government
investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. U.S. Government investigations of us, whether relating to these contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or criminal
liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, the suspension of government export licenses or the suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracting. U.S. Government investigations often take years to
complete and many result in no adverse action against us. Government contractors are also subject to many levels of audit and investigation. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Inspector General
of the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. The Department of Justice, from time to time, has convened grand juries to investigate
possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government
regulation or any applicable U.S. Government regulation (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations) may also be investigated or audited.            We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. We accrued all
appropriate costs we expect to incur in connection therewith. Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage and
the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of these matters. However, in the opinion of management, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material effect on our financial position,
results of operations or liquidity. Additional information regarding the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and the resolution of environmental claims against us and our operations can be found in  Environmental
Regulation  within Item 1, Item 1A.  Risk Factors,   Commitments and Contingencies  within Item 7 and  Note 11: Commitments and Contingencies  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

         In addition, various other claims and legal
proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened against us. While we cannot predict the outcome of these matters, in the opinion of management, any liability arising from them will not have a material
adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.       
        ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS             No matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008.               EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT             Our executive officers are listed below. Each executive officer was elected by our Board of
Directors to serve for a term of one year and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier removal, resignation or death.             Lynn A. Dugle       Ms. Dugle has served as Vice President of Raytheon Company
and President of the Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS) business unit since January 2009. From June 2008 to December 2008, she was Vice President and Deputy General Manager of the IIS business unit. From April 2004 to June 2008, she served
as Vice President, Engineering, Technology and Quality for the Network Centric Systems business unit. Prior to rejoining Raytheon in April 2004, Ms. Dugle held a wide range of officer-level positions with ADC Communications, Inc., a global
provider of network infrastructure products and services. Age 49.             Richard A. Goglia
      Mr. Goglia has served as Vice President Treasurer and Corporate Development since August 2006. From January 1999 to August 2006,
Mr. Goglia was Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. Goglia joined Raytheon in March 1997 and until January 1999, he served as Director, International Finance. Prior to joining Raytheon, Mr. Goglia spent 16 years in various financial and
management positions at General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media and financial services company, and General Electric Capital Corporation where his last position was Senior Vice President Corporate Finance. Age 57.   
         Jon C. Jones       Mr. Jones has served as Vice President of Raytheon Company and President of the Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) business unit since November 2005. From May 2005 to November 2005, Mr. Jones served as Vice
President and Deputy General Manager of SAS. From February 2004 to May 2005, Mr. Jones was Vice President and Deputy General Manager of the Missile Systems business unit. From May 2001 to February 2004, Mr. Jones was Vice President of
Missile Systems  Strike product line. Mr. Jones joined Raytheon in 1997 with the merger of Hughes, where he had served in positions of increasing responsibility since 1977. Age 54.             Taylor W. Lawrence       Dr. Lawrence has served as Vice President of Raytheon Company and President of the Missiles Systems (MS) business unit since July 2008. Dr. Lawrence joined Raytheon in April 2006 and until July 2008, he
served as Vice President, Engineering, Technology and Mission Assurance. From August 2001 to April 2006, Dr. Lawrence was sector vice president and general manager, C4ISR   Space Sensors Division for Northrop Grumman Electronic
Systems. From March 1999 to August 2001, Dr. Lawrence was vice president, Products and Technology for Northrop Grumman s Systems Development   Technology Division. Before joining Northrop Grumman, Dr. Lawrence served as the
staff director for the Select Committee on Intelligence for the U.S. Senate and, previously, as deputy director, Information Systems Office of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. Age 45.             Keith J. Peden       Mr. Peden has served as Senior Vice President Human Resources since March 2001. From November 1997 to March 2001, Mr. Peden was Vice President and Deputy Director Human Resources. From April 1993
to November 1997, Mr. Peden was Corporate Director of Benefits and Compensation. Age 58.             
  
   25   

Table of Contents  

          Colin Schottlaender       Mr. Schottlaender has served as Vice President of Raytheon Company and President of the Network Centric Systems (NCS) business unit since September 2002. From
November 1999 to September 2002, Mr. Schottlaender was Vice President and General Manager of the Tactical Systems division within the Electronic Systems business unit. From December 1997 to November 1999, Mr. Schottlaender was Vice
President of Tactical Systems within the Sensors and Electronic Systems division of Raytheon Systems Company. He joined Raytheon in 1977 and held positions of increasing responsibility in domestic and international business development, program
management, quality assurance, test engineering and product design/manufacture. Age 53.             Daniel L. Smith       Mr. Smith has served as Vice President of Raytheon Company and President of the Integrated Defense Systems (IDS)
business unit since September 2003. From August 2002 to September 2003, Mr. Smith was Vice President and Deputy General Manager of the IDS business unit. From October 1996 to August 2002, he served as Vice President and General Manager of
Raytheon s Naval   Maritime Integrated Systems division. Mr. Smith joined Raytheon in 1996 as the manager of programs for U.S. Navy LPD-17 class ships. Age 56.             Jay B. Stephens       Mr. Stephens has served as
Senior Vice President and General Counsel since October 2002. In December 2006, he was also elected as Secretary of the Company. From January 2002 to October 2002, Mr. Stephens served as Associate Attorney General of the United States. From
1997 to 2002, Mr. Stephens was Corporate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel for Honeywell International, Inc. (formerly AlliedSignal, Inc.). From 1993 to 1997, he was a partner in the Washington office of the law firm of Pillsbury,
Madison   Sutro (now Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP). Mr. Stephens served as United States Attorney for the District of Columbia from 1988 to 1993. From 1986 to 1988, he served in the White House as Deputy Counsel to the
President. Mr. Stephens currently serves as the Chairman of the Board of the New England Legal Foundation. Age 62.             William H. Swanson       Mr. Swanson has served as Chairman since January 2004
and as Chief Executive Officer since July 2003. Mr. Swanson joined Raytheon in 1972 and has held increasingly responsible management positions, including: President from July 2002 to May 2004; Executive Vice President of Raytheon Company and
President of Raytheon s Electronic Systems business unit from January 2000 to July 2002; Executive Vice President of Raytheon Company and Chairman and CEO of Raytheon Systems Company from January 1998 to January 2000; Executive Vice President
of Raytheon Company and General Manager of Raytheon s Electronic Systems business unit from March 1995 to January 1998; and Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Missile Systems division from August 1990 to March 1995. Age 60.
            David C. Wajsgras       Mr. Wajsgras has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2006. From August 2005 to March 2006, Mr. Wajsgras served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Lear Corporation, an automotive interior systems and components supplier. From January 2002 to August 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Lear. Mr. Wajsgras joined Lear in September 1999 as Vice President and
Controller. Age 49.             Michael J. Wood       Mr. Wood has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since October 2006. Prior to joining Raytheon, Mr. Wood held positions of increasing
responsibility over a 16-year career at KPMG LLP, an accounting firm, including most recently as an Audit Partner serving various aerospace and defense clients. Age 40.       
      Richard R. Yuse       Mr. Yuse has served as Vice President of
Raytheon Company and President of the Technical Services (TS) business unit since May 2007. From March 2007 to May 2007, Mr. Yuse was Vice President and Deputy General Manager of the TS business unit. From January 2006 to March 2007, he served
as Vice President of the Integrated Air Defense product line of the IDS business unit. Mr. Yuse joined Raytheon in 1976 and has held positions of increasing responsibility on a variety of programs ranging from system architecture and design to
flight test director and program manager. Age 57.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

            PART II                ITEM 5. MARKET FOR
REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES             At February 9, 2009, there were 38,012 record holders of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  RTN . For information concerning stock prices and
dividends paid during the past two years, see  Note 17: Quarterly Operating Results (Unaudited)  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Although we do not have a formal dividend policy, management believes that a reasonable dividend payout
ratio based on the current industry environment and market conditions is approximately one third of our economic earnings (income excluding the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment). Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors.
            Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans       The following table provides information about our equity compensation plans that authorize the issuance of shares of our common stock. This information is provided as of
December 31, 2008.         

Plan Category  
      
  (A) Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and
rights (1)   
      
  (B) Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (2)   
      
    (C)     Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column A) (3)     
 
    Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders   
      
  15,190,943  
      
  $  
  41.16  
      
  9,268,815   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders   

Total  
      
  15,190,943  
      
  $  
  41.16  
      
  9,268,815   

(1)  
  This amount includes 2,442,815 shares, which is the maximum number of shares that may be issued upon settlement of outstanding restricted stock units granted pursuant to the 2006,
2007 and 2008 Long-Term Performance Plan (LTPP) awards, including dividend equivalent amounts. The shares to be issued pursuant to the 2006, 2007 and 2008 LTPP awards will be issued under the 2001 Stock Plan. The material terms of the 2006, 2007 and
2008 LTPP awards are described in more detail in  Note 13: Stock-based Compensation Plans  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. These awards may be settled in cash or in stock at the discretion of the Management Development and
Compensation Committee.           

This amount also includes 214,494 shares that may be issued upon settlement of restricted stock units, generally issued to non-U.S. employees. The restricted stock units are granted
pursuant to the 2001 Stock Plan and shares to be issued in settlement of the units will be issued under the 2001 Stock Plan. The awards of restricted stock units generally vest one-third per year on the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the
date of grant.           

This amount also includes 6,407,076 shares issuable upon exercise of stock options granted under the 1995 Stock Option Plan. The 1995 Stock Option Plan expired in March 2005 and no
additional options may be granted pursuant to that plan.           

(2)  
  Since restricted stock unit awards do not have an exercise price, the weighted average exercise price does not take into account the restricted stock unit awards granted under the
2006, 2007 and 2008 LTPPs and restricted stock units generally granted to non-U.S. employees.           
       
   27   

Table of Contents  

          Stock Performance Graph       The following chart compares the total return on a cumulative basis of $100 invested in our common stock on December 31, 2003 to the Standard   Poor s
500 Stock Index and the Standard   Poor s Aerospace   Defense Index.             Total Return To Shareholders        (Includes reinvestment of dividends)          

28   

Table of Contents  

          Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

(1)  
  Includes shares purchased related to treasury activity under our stock plans. Such activity during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008 includes: (i) the surrender by employees of
6,562 shares of already owned common stock to pay the exercise price in connection with the exercise of employee stock options, and (ii) the surrender by employees of 21,441 shares to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the
vesting of restricted stock issued to employees.     

(2)  
  On October 24, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. On October 22, 2008, our Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. Purchases may take place from time to time at management s discretion depending upon market conditions.           
   29   

Table of Contents  

            ITEM 6. SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA              FIVE-YEAR STATISTICAL SUMMARY          
       
   30   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
             OVERVIEW              Introduction       Raytheon Company develops
technologically advanced, integrated products, services and solutions in four core defense markets: Sensing; Effects; Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence (C3I) and Mission Support. We serve all branches of the U.S. military and
numerous other U.S. Government agencies, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and many allied governments.            We operate in six business segments: Integrated Defense Systems (IDS), Intelligence and Information Systems (IIS), Missile Systems (MS), Network Centric Systems (NCS),
Space and Airborne Systems (SAS) and Technical Services (TS). For a more detailed description of our segments, see  Business Segments  within Item 1 of this Form 10-K.            In this section, we discuss our industry and how certain factors may affect our business, key elements of our strategy, how our financial
performance is assessed and measured by management, and other business considerations, including certain risks and challenges to our business. Next, we discuss our critical accounting estimates, which are those estimates that are most important to
both the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations and require management s most difficult or subjective judgment. We then review our results of operations for 2008, 2007 and 2006 beginning with an overview of our total
company results, followed by a more detailed review of those results by business segment. We also review our financial condition and liquidity including our capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements, commitments and
contingencies, and conclude with a discussion of our exposure to various market risks.             Industry Considerations              Domestic Considerations       In 2008, U.S. Government sales accounted for approximately 87% of our sales, primarily through defense-related programs with the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) (which
accounted for approximately 83% of our sales). Accordingly, the DoD budget and priorities are critical considerations for our domestic business. DoD funding has grown substantially since 2001. The DoD base budget, which excludes emergency funding
for operations in Afghanistan and Iraq, has grown from $300 billion in fiscal year (FY) 2001 to $512 billion in FY 2009, or 7% compounded annually. The FY 2009 budget is 7% or $32 billion higher than the FY 2008 level.            DoD modernization funding, which consists of procurement and research and development
(R D), is of particular importance to defense contractors. Modernization funding in the base budget has grown at an annual rate of 7% since FY 2001. The FY 2009 modernization level of $181 billion is 3% or $6 billion higher than the FY 2008
level. A major reason for this relatively consistent growth is the need to replace aging inventory of planes, ships, ground combat vehicles and other necessary warfighting equipment, often referred to by DoD officials as recapitalization.
           The DoD Operations and Maintenance Account (O M), which includes funding
for training, services and other logistical support functions, is the other major account of importance to the defense industry. O M in the DoD base budget has grown at an annual rate of 6% since FY 2001. The FY 2009 level of $179 billion is 9%
or $15 billion higher than the FY 2008 level. The decision to increase active duty ground forces by 92,000 will likely increase O M funding requirements in the near future.            Funding for the operations in Afghanistan and Iraq have largely occurred through emergency supplemental appropriations rather than in the
base budget appropriations. These emergency supplemental appropriations have risen from $63 billion in FY 2003 to $183 billion for FY 2008, or 24% compounded annually. Congress has already appropriated $66 billion for FY 2009, and a second emergency
FY 2009 supplemental appropriation is expected in the spring of 2009.            The
share of funding devoted to the modernization accounts, primarily procurement, within these emergency supplemental appropriations has steadily grown. Of the $183 billion of FY 2008 emergency funding, $67 billion or 37% is  
       
   31   

Table of Contents  

for modernization, which is 31% or $16 billion higher than the FY 2007 level. This growth is fueled by a greater need for force protection of the warfighter
as well as the growing need to replace or extensively refurbish equipment which is wearing down due to operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.            Looking forward, based on the enacted levels of DoD funding for FY 2009, we expect continued robust levels of defense spending in the near-term. However, projected
defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near-term due to numerous factors. We believe that the DoD budget and priorities will be affected by several factors, including the following:

External threats to our national security, including potential security threats posed by terrorists, emerging nuclear states and other countries;

Funding for on-going operations in Iraq and, to a lesser extent, Afghanistan, which will require funding above and beyond the DoD base budget for their duration;

Future priorities of the new Administration which could result in significant changes in the DoD budget overall and various allocations within the budget; and

The overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances.               With respect to other U.S. Government agencies, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
(DHS) budget and priorities also are important considerations for our domestic business. DHS funding has grown rapidly since DHS was established in 2003. Appropriations for DHS have increased from $23 billion for FY 2003 to $40 billion for FY 2009,
or 9% compounded annually. While there is less visibility into the future funding plans of DHS compared to the DoD, we expect continued robust funding levels for DHS in the near-term. We believe that the DHS budget will be affected by several
factors, including some of the same factors that affect the DoD budget, such as the threat of terrorism, which is not expected to diminish greatly in the next several years, the overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the U.S.
Government s finances, and the future priorities of the new Administration. In addition, DHS enjoys strong bipartisan support for robust levels of funding.         
  For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact the U.S. Government s demand for our products and services, see Item 1A  Risk
Factors  of this Form 10-K.             International Considerations       In 2008, our sales to customers outside of the U.S. accounted for approximately 20% of our sales (including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government).
Internationally, the growing threat of additional terrorist activity, emerging nuclear states and conventional military threats have led to an increase in demand for defense products and services and homeland security solutions. We currently
anticipate that overall international defense budgets will grow slightly faster than domestic budgets. International customers are expected to also continue to adopt similar defense transformation initiatives as the DoD s initiatives. We
believe that this trend will continue because many international customers are facing the same threat environment changes as the United States and they wish to assure that their forces and systems will be interoperable with U.S. and NATO forces.
However, international demand is sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic
and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy. For more information on the risks and uncertainties that could impact international demand for our products and services, see Item 1A  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.   
         Our Strategy and Opportunities       The following are the key elements of our strategy:   

Focus on key strategic pursuits, technology and mission assurance to protect and grow our position in our four core defense markets, Sensing, Effects, C3I and
Mission Support.      

Leverage our domain knowledge in these core defense markets, as well as in Mission Systems Integration, Homeland Security, and Information Assurance/Information
Operations.      

Expand our international business by broadening our regional focus and expanding our presence in core and adjacent markets, especially Border Security and Mission
Support.      

Be a Customer-focused company based on performance, relationships, and solutions.            
   32   

Table of Contents  

          Our Markets       We believe that our technologies, domain knowledge and key capabilities and their alignment with customer needs in our core defense markets position us favorably to
continue to grow and increase our market share. Our core markets also serve as a solid base from which to expand into adjacent and emerging markets, such as in Homeland Security and Information Assurance/Information Operations. We continually
explore opportunities to use our existing capabilities or develop or acquire additional ones to expand into closely adjacent markets.         

Sensing Sensing encompasses technologies that acquire precise situational data across air, space, ground and underwater domains and then generate the
information needed for effective battlespace decisions. Our sensing technologies span the full electromagnetic spectrum, from traditional radio frequency (RF) and electro-optical (EF) to hyperspectral, acoustic and ultraviolet sensors. We are
focused on leveraging our sensing technologies to provide a broad range of capabilities as well as expanding into adjacent markets such as sensors to detect Weapons of Mass Destruction.            

Effects Effects technologies achieve specific military actions or outcomes, from striking targets or disabling hostile information systems to using directed
energy in urban warfare. We are focused on moving beyond kinetic energy weapons to provide a broader range of systems that generate desired effects on an enemy, including using the missile as a node in the network, directed energy, lethal and
non-lethal applications and information operations. Our Effects capabilities include advanced airframes, guidance and navigation systems, high-resolution sensors, targeting and netted systems.            

Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence (C3I) C3I systems provide integrated real-time support to decision-makers on and off the battlefield,
transforming raw data into actionable intelligence. We are seeking to continue to grow our market presence in C3I and also expand our knowledge management and discovery capabilities. Our C3I capabilities include situational awareness, persistent
surveillance, communications, mission planning, battle management command and control, intelligence and analysis, and integrated ground solutions.            

Mission Support We are focused on enabling customer success through total life-cycle support that predicts customer needs, senses potential problems and
proactively responds with the most appropriate solutions. Our Mission Support capabilities include technical services, system engineering, logistics, training, operations and maintenance.            

Mission Systems Integration We believe that our expanding Mission Systems Integration (MSI) role will be a key differentiator for us. MSI is the integration of
multiple systems (e.g., sensors, C3I, effects) to deliver a solution designed to accomplish a specific mission for a customer. MSI requires a thorough understanding of the customer s mission, the systems being integrated and the concept of
operations. Our customer focus, program execution and the ability of our businesses to effectively work together on broad and complex initiatives are important factors in our ability to continue to expand our MSI role.      

Homeland Security We also intend to continue to grow our presence in the domestic and international homeland security markets, focusing on transportation
security, critical infrastructure protection, energy security, intelligence program support, law enforcement solutions, and emergency preparedness and response.            

Information Assurance/Information Operations In 2008, we established the Information Security Solutions product line within our IIS business segment. We also
acquired two information security companies: SI Government Solutions and Telemus Solutions, Inc. Both provide information security solutions and services to the intelligence community and DoD.               International Growth       Because of the breadth of our offerings, our systems integration capability and our strong legacy in the international marketplace, we believe that we are well-positioned to continue to grow our international
business. As discussed under  International Considerations,  we believe that demand is growing for solutions in air and missile defense, homeland security including border surveillance, air traffic management, precision engagement, naval
systems integration and  
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

intelligence and surveillance and reconnaissance. In addition, as coalition forces increasingly integrate military operations worldwide, we believe that our
leadership in network centric operations will continue to be a key discriminator.            In 2008, our international bookings grew to $7.6 billion from $6.7 billion in 2007. Notable international awards include:   

A significant order for the design, development and support of Patriot systems in the United Arab Emirates, as well as awards in Korea, Kuwait and Taiwan;

Contract to provide Standard Missile-3s to Japan; and      

Follow-on orders for the e-Borders program in the UK and the Hobart Class Air Warfare Destroyer program in Australia.               Focus on the Customer and Execution       Our customer focus continues to be a critical part of our strategy underpinned by a focus on performance, relationships and solutions. Performance means being able
to meet customer commitments and is ensured through strong processes, metrics and oversight. We maintain a  process architecture  that spans our broad programs and pursuits. It consists of processes such as Integrated Product Development
System (IPDS) which assures consistency of evaluation and execution at each step in a program s life-cycle. These processes are linked to an array of front-end and back-end metrics. With this structure, we are able to track results and be
alerted to potential issues through numerous oversight mechanisms, including operating reviews and annual operating plan reviews.            We are also continuing to build strong customer relationships by listening to customers, working with them as
partners and including them on Raytheon Six Sigma   TM    teams to jointly improve their programs and processes. We are increasingly focused on responding
to our customers  changing requirements with rapid and effective solutions to real problems.             Other Business Considerations       We currently are involved in approximately 15,000 contracts. Our largest contract in 2008 was for the Zumwalt
Class Destroyer program (DDG 1000), which accounted for less than 5% of total Net sales in 2008. We believe that our diverse portfolio of programs and capabilities is well suited to a changing defense environment. However, we face numerous
challenges and risks, as discussed below and under Item 1A  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.            We remain dependent on the U.S. Government for a substantial portion of our business. Sales to the U.S. Government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget/economic considerations, changing defense
requirements and political developments such as changes in Congress and the Administration. The influence of these factors, which are largely beyond our control, could impact our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we operate
in highly competitive markets. These markets are becoming increasingly more concentrated in response to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi-service contracts. Additionally, the DoD and international customers are
increasingly turning to commercial contractors for IT and other support work.            Our future success is dependent on our ability to execute our business strategies. First, we must continue to perform on existing programs, as past performance is an important selection criteria for new competitive awards. Second, we must
successfully execute our growth strategies, as discussed above. In order to execute, we must be able to identify the most appropriate opportunities to leverage our capabilities and technologies, as well as emerging customer trends in these markets.
We then must successfully develop, market and support new offerings and technologies for those markets which will require the investment of significant financial resources and substantial management attention.            We also focus on significant changes in our estimates of contract sales, costs and profits,
to assess program performance and the potential impact of such changes on our results of operations. As discussed in greater detail in  Critical Accounting Estimates , our method of accounting for our contracts requires that we estimate
contract revenues and costs. Due to the size, length of time and nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, our estimates are complicated and subject to many variables. We review our contract estimates periodically to
assess whether revisions are warranted and make revisions and adjustments to our estimates in the ordinary course. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch-up, which recognizes in the current
period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. In addition, given our number of contracts and  
       
   34   

Table of Contents  

our accounting methods, we may recognize changes in multiple contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be significant, but that result, on a net
basis, in no impact on our results of operations. Alternatively, we may recognize changes in numerous contracts in a fiscal quarter that, individually, may be immaterial, but that result, collectively, in a significant change to our results of
operations.             FINANCIAL SUMMARY       Management is focused on the following financial indicators:   

Bookings a forward-looking metric that measures the value of new contracts awarded to us during the year.      

Net Sales a growth metric that measures our revenue for the current year.      

Operating Income which measures our profit from continuing operations for the year, before interest and taxes.      

Free Cash Flow a measure of the cash generated in a given year that we can use to make strategic investments to grow our business or return to our
shareholders.      

Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) a measure of the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital.               Considered in the aggregate, we believe these five metrics are strong indicators of our
overall performance and our ability to create shareholder value. We feel these measures are balanced among long-term and short-term performance, growth and efficiency. We use these and other performance metrics for executive compensation purposes.
           In addition, we maintain a strong focus on program execution and the prudent
management of capital and investments in order to maximize operating income and cash and to continue to improve ROIC. We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for growing our business, including capital expenditures,
acquisitions, and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and share repurchases.            Bookings were $26.8 billion in 2008, $25.5 billion in 2007 and $22.4 billion in 2006,
resulting in backlog of $38.9 billion, $36.6 billion and $33.8 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Backlog represents future sales expected to be recognized over the contract period, which is generally the next several
years. Depending upon the customer and its funding sources, our orders might be structured as annual follow-on contracts, or as one large multi-year order or long-term award. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of backlog are not necessarily
indicative of future workloads.            Net sales were $23.2 billion in 2008, $21.3
billion in 2007 and $19.7 billion in 2006.            Operating income was $2.6 billion
in 2008, $2.3 billion in 2007 and $1.9 billion in 2006. Operating margin, operating income as a percentage of net sales, was 11.2%, 10.9% and 9.9% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in operating income was a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment,
described below in Critical Accounting Estimates, of $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            Operating cash flow from continuing operations was $2.0 billion in 2008, $1.2 billion in 2007 and $2.5 billion in 2006.            A discussion of our results follows below in Consolidated Results of Operations; Segment
Results; Financial Condition and Liquidity; and Capital Resources.             CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES       Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be
determined with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe
the estimates set forth below may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application than our other accounting estimates and represent the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements. We believe our judgments related to these accounting estimates are appropriate.  
       
   35   

Table of Contents  

However, if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from the amounts recorded.             Revenue Recognition       We determine the appropriate method by which we recognize revenue by analyzing the type, terms and conditions of each contract or arrangement entered into with our customers. The significant estimates we consider in
recognizing revenue for the types of revenue-generating activities in which we are involved are described below. We classify contract revenues as product or service according to the predominant attributes of the relevant underlying contracts unless
the contract can clearly be split between product and service. We define service revenue as revenue from activities which are not associated with the design, development or production of tangible assets, and the delivery of software code or a
specific capability. Service revenue represented less than 10% of our total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006.             Percentage of Completion Accounting  We account for our contracts associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, or
those otherwise within the scope of Chapter 11 of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Government Contracts (ARB No. 43) or Statement of Position 81-1, Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts
(SOP 81-1), such as certain cost-plus service contracts, using the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the long-term contract. The selection of
the method by which to measure such progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Our analysis of these contracts also contemplates whether contracts should be combined or
segmented. The combination of two or more contracts requires significant judgment in determining whether the intent of entering into the contracts was effectively to enter into a single project, which should be combined to reflect an overall profit
rate. Additionally, judgment is involved in determining whether a single contract or group of contracts may be segmented based on how the contract was negotiated and the performance criteria. The decision to combine a group of contracts or segment a
contract could change the amount of revenue and gross profit recorded in a given period had consideration not been given to these factors. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under SOP 81-1 are met. Similarly, we
may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or a group of contracts, with varying rates of profitability, only if all the applicable criteria under SOP 81-1 are met.            We generally use the cost-to-cost measure of progress for all our long-term contracts unless we believe another method more clearly measures
progress towards completion of the contract. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred-to-date to the total estimated costs at completion of the contract.
Contract costs include material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. Revenues, including estimated earned fees or profits, are recorded as costs are incurred. Due to the nature of the work required to be
performed on many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complex and subject to many variables. Management must make various assumptions and estimates related to contract deliverables including design
requirements, performance of subcontractors, cost and availability of materials, productivity and manufacturing efficiency and labor availability. Incentive and award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer or upon achievement
of certain program milestones or cost targets. Incentive and award fees, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating profit rates. Estimates of award fees are based on actual awards and anticipated performance
which may include the performance of subcontractor or partners depending upon the individual contract requirements. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until
the event occurs. Such incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Our claims on contracts are recorded only if it is probable the claim will result in additional contract
revenue and the amounts can be reliably estimated.            We have a standard
quarterly process in which management reviews the progress and performance of our significant contracts. As part of this process, management reviews include, but are not limited to, any outstanding key contract matters, progress towards completion
and the related program schedule, identified risks and opportunities, and the related changes in estimates of revenues and costs. Based on this analysis, any adjustments to sales, costs of sales and profit are recorded as necessary in the period
they become known. Changes in estimates of contract sales, costs of sales  
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch-up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior
periods. A significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision
for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period the loss is determined.             Other Revenue Methods  To a much lesser extent, we enter into contracts that are not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, or not
otherwise within the scope of ARB No. 43 or SOP 81-1. We account for those contracts in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition, or other relevant revenue
recognition accounting literature. Revenue under such contracts is generally recognized upon delivery or as the service is performed. Revenue on contracts to sell software is recognized in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Position
97-2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue from non-software license fees is recognized over the expected life of the continued involvement with the customer. Royalty revenue is recognized when earned. Revenue generated from fixed price service
contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment is recognized as services are rendered once persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or
determinable, and we have determined collectability is reasonably assured.            We
apply the separation guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables for contracts with multiple deliverables. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the
deliverables should be divided into more than one unit of accounting. For contracts with more than one unit of accounting, we recognize revenue for each deliverable based on the revenue recognition policies discussed above.             Other Considerations  The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on
costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost-based pricing is determined under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). The FAR provide guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in
establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions, certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, interest expense and certain litigation defense
costs are unallowable. In addition, we may enter into agreements with the U.S. Government that address the allowability and allocation of costs to contracts for specific matters. Certain costs incurred in the performance of our U.S. Government
contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs are deferred and primarily include a portion of our environmental expenses, asset retirement obligations, certain restructuring costs, deferred
state income tax, workers  compensation and certain other accruals. These costs are allocated to contracts when they are paid or otherwise agreed. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires us to
make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. If the level of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining
contracts could be adversely affected.            Pension and other postretirement
benefit costs are allocated to our contracts as allowed costs based upon the U.S. Government cost accounting standards (CAS). The CAS requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit costs differ from the financial accounting standards
(FAS) requirements under U.S. GAAP. Given the inherent difficulty in matching individual expense and income items between the CAS and FAS requirements to determine specific recoverability, we have not estimated the incremental FAS expense to be
recoverable under our expected future contract activity, and therefore have not deferred any FAS expense for pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2006-2008. This resulted in $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of incremental
expense reflected in our results of operations for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, for the difference between CAS and FAS requirements for our pension plans in those years.             Pension Costs       We have pension plans covering the
majority of our employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We must calculate our pension costs under both U.S. Government CAS and FAS requirements under U.S. GAAP. The calculations under CAS and FAS require judgment. CAS prescribes
the allocation to and recovery of pension costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services and the methodology to determine such costs.  
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 87, Employer s Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the applicable standard under
FAS, outlines the methodology used to determine pension expense or income for financial reporting purposes. The CAS requirements for pension costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a
result, while both CAS and FAS use long-term assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different calculated amounts of pension cost. In addition, the cash funding requirements for our pension plans are determined under
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). ERISA funding requirements use a third and different method to determine funding requirements, which are primarily based on the year s expected service cost and amortization of other
previously unfunded liabilities. As discussed on page 56 of this Form 10-K, the ERISA funding requirements will be replaced in the future by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 requirements. Accordingly, our FAS pension expense or income is not
indicative of the funding requirements or amount of government recovery.            We
record CAS expense in the results of our business segments. Due to the differences between FAS and CAS amounts, we also present the difference between FAS and CAS expense, referred to as our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, as a separate line item in our
business segment results. This effectively increases or decreases the amount of pension expense in our results of operations so such amount is equal to the FAS expense amount under SFAS No. 87.            The assumptions in the calculations of our FAS expense and CAS expense, which involve
significant judgment, are discussed below.             FAS Expense  Our
long-term return on assets (ROA) and discount rate assumptions are the key variables in determining pension expense or income and the funded status of our pension plans under SFAS No. 87.            The long-term ROA on plan assets represents the average rate of earnings expected over the
long term on the funds invested to provide for anticipated future benefit payment obligations. To develop the long-term ROA assumption, we perform periodic studies which consider our asset allocation strategies, our recent and anticipated future
long-term performance of individual asset classes, and the associated risk. The investment policy asset allocation ranges for our domestic pension plans are as follows:       
  
          In determining the long-term ROA
assumption for 2008 and 2007, we compared our analysis of our actual historical returns to a broader market long-term forecast adjusted for our asset allocation strategy, net of an estimated long-term fee rate. In evaluating our asset allocation
strategy, we determined that our higher allocations of debt securities and cash at December 31, 2008, compared to our long-term asset allocation strategy, has been driven by recent market conditions and we intend to return to our long-term
investment allocations once normal volatility levels return to the market. In validating the 2008 long-term ROA assumption, we also reviewed our pension plan asset performance since the inception of SFAS No. 87, which includes the impact of the
current downturn in the financial markets. Our average actual annual rate of return since the inception of SFAS No. 87 has approximated our estimated 8.75% assumed return. Based upon these analyses and our internal investing targets, we
determined our long-term ROA assumption for our domestic pension plans in 2008 was 8.75%, consistent with our 2007 assumption. Our domestic pension plans actual rates of return were (25.55%), 7.67% and 16.58% for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The difference between the actual rate of return and our long-term ROA assumption is included in deferred losses as discussed below. If we significantly changed our long-term investment allocation or strategy, then our long-term ROA assumption could
change as well.            The discount rate represents the interest rate that should be
used to determine the present value of future cash flows currently expected to be required to settle the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a model consisting of a theoretical bond
portfolio consisting of bonds AA rated or  
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

better by Moody s for which the timing and amount of cash flows approximate the estimated benefit payments of our pension plans. The discount rate
assumption for our domestic pension plans at December 31, 2008 is 6.5%, unchanged from 2007.            An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the assumed long-term ROA and the discount rate would have had the following approximate impacts on 2008 pension results:         

(In millions)  

Change in assumption used to determine net periodic benefit costs for the year ended December 31, 2008   

Discount rate   
      
  $  
  42   
 
    Long-term ROA   

34   
 
    Change in assumption used to determine benefit obligations for the year ended December 31, 2008   

Discount rate   
      
  $  
  400   
           CAS Expense  In addition to
providing the methodology for calculating pension costs, CAS also prescribe the method for assigning those costs to specific periods. While the ultimate liability for pension costs under FAS and CAS is similar, the pattern of recognition of such
costs is different. The key drivers of CAS pension expense include the funded status and the method used to calculate CAS reimbursement for each of our plans, and our long-term ROA assumption. Unlike FAS, CAS require the discount rate to be
consistent with the long-term ROA, which changes infrequently given its long-term nature. As a result, changes in bond or other interest rates generally do not impact CAS. In addition, unlike FAS, we can only allocate pension costs for a plan under
CAS until such plan is fully funded as determined under CAS requirements. When the estimated future CAS pension costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our plan assets, the
estimated CAS cost to be allocated to our contracts in the future increases.             Other FAS and CAS Considerations  On an annual basis, at December 31   st   , we update our estimate of future FAS and CAS pension expense based upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. Other variables that can impact the
pension plans  funded status and FAS and CAS expense include demographic experience such as the expected rates of salary increase, retirement age, turnover and mortality. In addition, certain pension plans provide a lump sum form of benefit
that varies based upon externally determined interest rates. Assumptions for these variables are set at the beginning of the year, and are based on actual and projected plan experience. On a periodic basis, generally planned annually in the third
quarter, we update our actuarial estimate of the unfunded projected benefit obligation for both FAS and CAS with final census data from the end of the prior year.            The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows:         
          As discussed above, a key driver of
the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differ from our assumptions
under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years and are amortized under CAS over a 15-year period. In
accordance with both FAS and CAS, a  market-related value  of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market-related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or
losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market-related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number
of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status
of our pension plans under CAS. As noted  
       
   39   

Table of Contents  

above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our
asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will change accordingly.            From
2006 to 2008, our FAS expense decreased due to the recognition of historical asset returns, which were greater than the expected return between 2003 and 2006 and the expected returns on our discretionary pension contributions. On the other hand, CAS
expense over the past three years has remained relatively consistent because the recognition of 2003 to 2006 asset returns was recognized over a longer period of time. As a result of these patterns of earnings and expense recognition, our FAS/CAS
Pension Adjustment expense decreased over that period.            In 2009, we expect that
our CAS expense will increase more than our FAS expense which will result in a significant decrease in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. The increase in projected CAS expense is driven by negative asset returns in 2008 which caused certain plans to no
longer be fully funded under CAS. While our FAS expense also increased due to the lower than expected return on assets, the expected return on our discretionary contribution to our pension plans in 2008 as well as the additional funding requirements
expected in 2009, helped to partially offset the FAS expense increase. After 2009 the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences
between those assumptions and future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2008, it appears that our FAS expense will exceed our
CAS expense after 2009 due to the shorter period in which the negative 2008 asset returns will be smoothed and amortized under FAS.             Other Pension Considerations  In general, we value our pension plan assets based upon quoted or observable market prices, or other standard valuation
techniques that generally assume a liquid market. In addition, we estimate the value of certain non-readily marketable investments, which are less than 5% of our pension plan assets at December 31, 2008, based on the most recently available
asset data which can be up to three months in arrears, and make a valuation adjustment to the asset data, if necessary, based on the current market environment.         
  In addition, we had $7.9 billion and $3.2 billion of deferred losses in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and other postretirement benefit
plans at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, driven primarily by differences between actual and expected asset returns, changes in discount rates, changes in plan provisions and differences between actual and assumed demographic
experience. The $4.7 billion increase in 2008 was driven primarily by actual asset returns versus our expected return. To the extent that we continue to experience such differences between these items, our funded status and related accrued retiree
benefit obligation will change. Increases to our accrued retiree benefit obligation are initially reflected as a reduction to Other comprehensive income. The deferred losses are amortized and included in future pension expense over the average
employee service period of approximately 11 years. As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans an amendment of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158) as of December 31, 2006, which resulted in a $1.9 billion increase in Accrued retiree benefits
and other long-term liabilities and a corresponding $1.3 billion decrease, net of taxes, in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in Stockholders  equity.         
   Impairment of Goodwill       We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually during
the fourth quarter and in any interim period in which circumstances arise that indicate our goodwill may be impaired. Indicators of impairment include, but are not limited to, the loss of significant business; significant decreases in federal
government appropriations or funding for our contracts; or other significant adverse changes in industry or market conditions. No events occurred during the periods presented that indicated the existence of an impairment with respect to our goodwill
related to our continuing operations. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (DCF) model based on our most recent long-range plan, and compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book
value, including goodwill. We discount the related cash flow forecasts using the weighted-average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. Preparation of forecasts for use in the long-range plan and the selection of the discount rate
involve significant judgments that we base primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements and general market conditions. Significant changes in these forecasts or the discount rate selected
could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. The  
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

combined estimated fair value of all of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred
to as a control premium. We believe our control premium is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. When available and as appropriate, we also use comparative market multiples to corroborate
our DCF model results. There was no indication of goodwill impairment for continuing operations as a result of our impairment analysis. If we are required to record an impairment charge in the future, it could materially affect our results of
operations.             CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       We generally express changes in sales in terms of volume in our discussions of comparative period results. Volume generally refers to increases or decreases in revenues
related to varying production activity or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes will typically drive a corresponding margin change based on the profit rate for a particular contract. We generally express changes in segment operating
income in terms of volume or changes in program performance. Segment operating margin reflects the performance on programs and changes in contract mix. Changes in program performance typically relate to profit recognition associated with revisions
to total estimated costs at completion that reflect improved or deteriorated operating performance or award fee rates. We record changes in estimates of contract sales, costs and profits using a cumulative catch-up, which recognizes in the current
period the cumulative effect of the changes in estimates on current and prior periods.            Selected consolidated results were as follows:         
          The increase in Net sales in 2008 was
spread across all segments as discussed below in segment results. The increase in Net sales in 2007 was primarily due to higher sales at NCS, MS and IDS. Sales to the U.S. DoD were 83% of sales in 2008, 81% in 2007 and 79% in 2006. Total sales to
the U.S. Government were 87% of sales in 2008, and 86% in 2007 and 2006. Included in U.S. Government sales were foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
We currently expect defense market trends to continue to positively impact our sales in 2009. However, as discussed above in industry considerations, projected defense spending levels are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for
periods beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, such as U.S. Government budget appropriation decisions and geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, which are beyond our control. Total international sales, including foreign military
sales, were $4.6 billion or 20% of sales in 2008, $4.2 billion or 20% of sales in 2007 and $3.7 billion or 19% of sales in 2006.            Gross margin included a FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment of $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The FAS/CAS Pension
Adjustment, which we report as a separate line item in our segment results, represents the difference between our pension expense or income under SFAS No. 87 and our pension expense under CAS. For more information on the FAS/CAS Pension
Adjustment, see our discussion below in Segment Results. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

         Administrative and selling expenses and
Research and development expenses remained relatively consistent as a percentage of sales. As discussed below, our provision for state income taxes, which is included in Administrative and selling expenses, has increased over the past three years
driven by higher income.            The changes in Operating income by segment are
described below in Segment Results.            The decrease in Interest expense in 2008
compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. The decrease in Interest expense in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to lower average outstanding debt.            The decrease in Interest income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. The increase in interest income
in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a higher average cash balance in 2007.            Other expense (income), net in 2008 included a $30 million loss on investments held in rabbi trusts used to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. Included in Other expense (income), net in 2007 was a $59 million
loss on the early repurchase of long-term debt. Included in Other expense (income), net in 2006 was a $24 million gain on the sale of Space Imaging assets and a $34 million favorable adjustment resulting from the settlement of a class action
lawsuit, partially offset by a $7 million charge for the tentative settlement of the ERISA purported class action lawsuit filed in 2003.            Our effective tax rate, which is used to determine income tax expense, differs from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following:         
          The effective tax rate was 33.0% in
2008, 23.9% in 2007 and 33.7% in 2006, reflecting the U.S. statutory rate adjusted for various permanent differences between book and tax reporting. Included in the effective tax rate in 2008 was $13 million of benefits which primarily relate to a
foreign research incentive refund claim. Included in the effective tax rate in 2007 was a $219 million favorable impact primarily related to the resolution of a federal research credit refund claim for the 1984-1990 years and certain export tax
benefit refund claims, which reduced the effective tax rate by 9.9%. The effective tax rates in 2008 and 2007 were reduced by manufacturing benefits, research credits and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) dividend deductions, and were increased
by various non-deductible expenses. The effective tax rate in 2006 was reduced by export-related tax benefits, ESOP dividend deductions, manufacturing benefits and research credits, and was increased by various non-deductible expenses. The provision
for state income taxes can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government. State income taxes allocated to our contracts were $122 million, $81 million and $29 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, and were included in Administrative and selling expenses.            Income
from continuing operations was $1,674 million or $3.95 per diluted share on 423.7 million average shares outstanding in 2008, $1,693 million or $3.80 per diluted share on 445.7 million average shares outstanding in 2007 and $1,187 million
or $2.63 per diluted share on 450.9 million average shares outstanding in 2006. The decrease in Income from continuing operations of $19 million in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to the following:   

$292 million of higher taxes primarily due to $219 million of tax-related benefits in 2007; $56 million increase in Corporate and Eliminations; and $32 million
greater net interest expense.               These were partially offset
by:   

$188 million in segment operational improvements discussed below in Segment Results; $136 million lower FAS/CAS expense; and $37 million decrease in Other expense
(income), net.            
   42   

Table of Contents  

         The increase in Income from continuing
operations of $506 million in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the following:   

$281 million in operational improvements from growth and performance improvements discussed below in Segment Results; $219 million of tax-related benefits discussed
above; $164 million in lower net interest expense; and $103 million lower FAS/CAS expense.               These were partially offset by:   

$147 million of higher taxes related primarily to our higher income and $114 million increase in Other expense (income), net, driven primarily by the loss on our
early repurchase of debt.               Operating (loss) income from
discontinued operations, net of tax, described below in Discontinued Operations, was $2 million of loss or $0.01 per diluted share in 2008, $885 million of income or $1.99 per diluted share in 2007 and $96 million of income or $0.21 per
diluted share in 2006. Included in Operating (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax in 2007 was a $986 million gain on the sale of Raytheon Aircraft, which was completed in 2007.            Net income was $1,672 million or $3.95 per diluted share in 2008, $2,578 million or $5.79 per
diluted share in 2007 and $1,283 million or $2.85 per diluted share in 2006.             SEGMENT
RESULTS       We report our results in the following segments: Integrated Defense Systems, Intelligence and Information Systems, Missile Systems, Network
Centric Systems, Space and Airborne Systems, and Technical Services.         
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

         Bookings represent the dollar value of new
contract awards recognized during the period and includes firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated. Bookings for not-to-exceed contract awards are recorded based on a reasonable estimate of the expected contract definitization, which
will generally not be less than 75% of the award, and are subsequently adjusted to reflect the actual amounts definitized or when, prior to definitization, facts and circumstances indicate the previous estimate is no longer reasonable. Bookings in
each year are influenced by the timing of awards that may cover multiple fiscal years. Bookings exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g., indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) type
contracts), and are reduced for contract cancellations and terminations of bookings recognized in the current year. We reflect contract cancellations and terminations from prior year bookings as well as the impact of changes in foreign exchange
rates directly as an adjustment to backlog.         
          Total backlog includes both funded
backlog (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and/or contractually obligated by the customer).
Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts (e.g. IDIQ). Both funded and unfunded backlog are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates. Backlog is increased by bookings and is converted into
sales as work is performed or deliveries are made.             Integrated Defense Systems  
        
          IDS is a global capabilities
integrator specializing in space, air, surface, subsurface and homeland security solutions. IDS leverages its core domain knowledge and key capabilities in sensors, command, control, and communication (C3), effects and mission support to provide
best-value solutions for warfighters and civil authorities. In 2008, IDS, as the prime contractor for the Patriot Air   Missile Defense System, a long-range, high-altitude system designed to defeat advanced threats, provided Patriot
Configuration 3 upgrades to the U.S. Army as well as major Patriot System upgrades and sales to international customers, including the United Arab Emirates. IDS also continued to serve as the prime mission systems integrator for all electronic and
combat systems of the Zumwalt Class Destroyer program (DDG 1000), successfully completing the U.S. Navy s Production Readiness Review as well as other major reviews and assessments on this program, as the program transitions to production.
            Net Sales  The increase in sales in 2008 of $453 million was
primarily due to higher volume of $199 million on two joint battlefield sensor programs, $119 million on a U.S. Navy combat systems program and $73 million on various Patriot programs.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

         The increase in sales in 2007 of $475
million was primarily due to growth of $183 million on several domestic and international missile defense programs, $137 million on two joint battlefield sensor programs and $104 million on a U.S. Navy combat systems program.             Operating Income and Margin  The increase in operating income of $42 million in
2008 was primarily due to increased volume, partially offset by a change in contract mix driven primarily by the completion of certain programs, and program performance adjustments. The decline in operating margin was primarily due to this change in
contract mix, and program performance adjustments. Included in operating income in 2008 and partially offsetting the decline in operating margin was $28 million from the sales of certain software licenses. The IDS operating margin is expected to
decline in 2009 due to an expected shift in the mix of international sales and the completion of certain contracts.            The increase in operating income of $137 million and the margin improvement in 2007 were primarily due to higher volume and program performance improvements of $78
million on several international and domestic missile defense programs, $27 million on a U.S. Navy combat systems program, and $14 million from sales of certain software licenses.             Backlog and Bookings  The increase in backlog of $587 million in 2008 was primarily due to 2008 awards for certain Patriot
programs. In 2008, IDS booked $2.5 billion to provide the Patriot Air   Missile System to the United Arab Emirates and $533 million on certain contracts for the design, development and support of the Patriot System for other international
customers, including $288 million for South Korea, $140 million for Kuwait and $105 million for Taiwan. IDS also booked $237 million to provide engineering services support for Patriot air and missile defense programs and $229 million for the Rapid
Aerostat Initial Deployment (RAID) program, both for the U.S. Army.            The $1.4
billion increase in backlog and increased bookings in 2007 were mainly due to the Air Warfare Destroyer (AWD) award, a multi-year program. In 2007, IDS booked $1.3 billion for the AWD program and $1.3 billion for DDG 1000. IDS also booked $915
million for certain Patriot programs including an international technical support program, an engineering services support program, the Patriot Pure Fleet program, and a Guidance Enhanced Missile Tactical (GEM-T) upgrade program. Additionally,
IDS booked $298 million on the Ballistic Missile Defense System (BMDS) program, $195 million on the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) radar program, $118 million for the SPY-1 radar on the AEGIS program and $113 million on the Cobra Judy
Replacement Mission Equipment (CJRME) program.             Intelligence and Information Systems
         
          IIS provides broad capabilities and
expertise in signal and image processing, geospatial intelligence air- and space-borne command and control, ground engineering support and weather and environmental management systems, command and control solutions for air/space platforms,
operations, maintenance and information technology identity management, information assurance and homeland security solutions. In 2008, IIS continued to grow its business across the intelligence community while growing into international markets and
other new opportunities. IIS expanded its existing e-Borders contract, an advanced border control and security program for the U.K. Home Office, to provide extended functionality and services for the program.             Net Sales  The increase in sales in 2008 of $390 million was primarily due to $309
million of higher volume on an advanced border control and security program and a competitive design program for the U.S. Air Force s next generation global positioning ground system.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

         The increase in sales in 2007 of $182
million was primarily due to $90 million on an advanced border control and security program, increased volume on several programs with the U.S. Air Force and several information technology programs.             Operating Income and Margin  The increase in operating income of $5 million in
2008 was primarily due to increased volume, partially offset by certain acquisition costs and other investments in cyber operations and information security capabilities. The decline in operating margin in 2008 was primarily due to the acquisition
costs and investments noted above.            The increase in operating income of $14
million in 2007 was primarily due to increased volume, partially offset by costs related to the Oakley Networks, Inc. acquisition.             Backlog and Bookings  The decrease in backlog of $499 million and bookings of $1.7 billion in 2008 were primarily due to large bookings in 2007 described
below. In 2008, IIS booked $1.8 billion on a number of classified contracts, including $379 million on a major classified program.            The $1.7 billion increase in backlog and increased bookings in 2007 was primarily due to the e-Borders booking, a multi-year project. During 2007, IIS booked $1.4 billion
for e-Borders, $1.4 billion on a number of classified contracts, $781 million on the National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite System (NPOESS) program and $101 million for the U.S. Air Force s Consolidated Field Service
contract to provide global intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance support.             Missile Systems          
          MS develops and supports a broad range
of cutting edge weapon systems that include missiles, smart munitions, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles, space vehicles and directed energy effectors. In 2008, MS and the U.S. Navy successfully conducted the first two flight tests of the Standard
Missile 6 (SM-6) extended range anti-air warfare missile, which demonstrated the first successful integration of the Navy s active missile technology into a weapon system that provides both near-term advanced anti-air warfare and future
over-the-horizon capability. In addition, MS continued to demonstrate its missile defense capability with several significant test successes and contract awards. The Missile Defense Agency and the U.S. Navy completed a successful mission,
intercepting a non-functioning satellite with a specially modified Standard Missile-3 (SM-3).             Net Sales  The increase in sales in 2008 of $384 million was primarily due to $362 million of higher
volume on the Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile (AMRAAM), Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM), Phalanx, Paveway   TM    and Tube-launched Optically
guided Wire controlled missile (TOW) programs.            The increase in sales in 2007
of $490 million was primarily due to $414 million of higher volume on the Standard Missile, Phalanx and Evolved Sea Sparrow (ESSM) programs.             Operating Income and Margin  The increase in operating income of $40 million in 2008 was primarily due to higher volume. Operating margin in 2008 remained
consistent with 2007.            The increase in operating income of $62 million in 2007
was primarily due to increased volume.               
   46   

Table of Contents  

          Backlog and Bookings  The $479
million increase in backlog and the $1.1 billion increase in bookings in 2008 were primarily due to 2008 awards for the SM-3 program. In 2008, MS booked $1.2 billion for the production of SM-3 for the U.S. Navy and the Missile Defense Agency, $624
million for the production of the AMRAAM program for international customers and the U.S. Air Force, $577 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, and $478 million for the production of Tactical Tomahawk cruise missiles for the U.S.
Navy.            The $125 million decrease in backlog and the $1.1 billion decrease in
bookings in 2007 were primarily driven by certain large development bookings in 2006.   In 2007, MS booked $691 million on Standard Missile Development and Production, $283 million for the TOW missiles, $247 million for ESSM Production, a $253
million Tactical Tomahawk award, $237 million for Phalanx Weapons Systems for the U.S. Navy and U.S. Army, $232 million for the design and development of the Mid Range Munition system, $145 million for the production of Enhanced Paveway for an
international customer, and $111 million for the production of Javelin for the U.S. Army and U.S. Marines.             Network Centric Systems          
          NCS develops and produces mission
solutions for networking, command and control, battle space awareness and transportation management. In 2008, NCS continued developing and expanding its international business and presence overseas. NCS had key initiatives into adjacent markets
including international and domestic border security, civil communications and first responder interoperability as well as transportation solutions, including open road tolling. NCS was awarded the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS)
contract to provide an all-weather, anti-jam shipboard landing capability to the U.S. Navy, which will enable pinpoint landing accuracy.             Net Sales  The increase in sales in 2008 of $346 million was due to higher volume on certain U.S. Army programs, including an integrated ground combat
surveillance program, a communications program and a long-range multi-sensor system program.            The increase in sales in 2007 of $603 million was primarily due to $485 million of increased volume on certain U.S. Army programs, including an integrated ground combat surveillance program, a weapon locating radar
program, the Improved Target Acquisition System (ITAS) program and a communications program.             Operating Income and Margin  The increase in operating income of $46 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume on certain U.S. Army programs. Operating margin in 2008 remained consistent with
2007.            The increase in operating income of $127 million and the margin
improvement in 2007 were primarily due to $98 million of improved program performance and volume on certain U.S. Army programs.             Backlog and Bookings  The increase of $631 million in backlog and increased bookings in 2008 were primarily due to an increase in U.S. Army awards. In 2008,
NCS booked $570 million to provide Horizontal Technology Integration (HTI) forward-looking infrared kits and $279 million for the Long Range Advanced Scout Surveillance Systems (LRAS3) for the U.S. Army. NCS also booked $233 million for the design
and development phase of JPALS for the U.S. Navy, $231 million for the production of ITAS for the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marines and $115 million for the Airborne, Maritime and Fixed Site (AMF) Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) program.   
        The 2007 backlog and bookings remained relatively consistent with 2006. In 2007, NCS
booked $725 million on various U.S. Army programs including the LRAS3 program, the Firefinder locating radar program, SATCOM on the move  
       
   47   

Table of Contents  

systems to the U.S. Army for use on the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle, and the HTI program. NCS also booked $159 million for development work on
the U.S. Navy Multiband Terminal (NMT) contract and $121 million on the Commander s Independent Viewers (CIVs) program.             Space and Airborne Systems          
          SAS designs and develops integrated
systems and solutions for advanced missions including traditional and non-traditional intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations, special forces operations and space. In 2008, SAS demonstrated the
Advanced Distributed Aperture System (ADAS), a high-definition situational awareness capability for helicopter aircrews, in conjunction with the U.S. Army Night Vision Electronic Systems directorate. SAS and the U.K. Ministry of Defence successfully
completed capabilities assurance mission testing of the Airborne Stand-Off Radar (ASTOR) system, a world-class ground surveillance capability, prior to the system entering into service with the Royal Air Force.             Net Sales  The increase in sales in 2008 of $84 million was primarily due to
higher volume on certain sensor programs, partially offset by a $137 million decrease in volume on a classified program and an international advanced countermeasures program.            The decrease in sales in 2007 of $31 million was primarily due to lower volume of $93 million on a sensor program, partially offset by
higher volume on certain airborne radar and classified programs.             Operating
Income and Margin  The increase in operating income of $20 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased volume. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007.            The decrease in operating income of $44 million and the decline in margin in 2007 were
primarily due to profit adjustments and lower volume on a sensor program and certain classified programs, partially offset by improved program performance on an international aircraft integration program.             Backlog and Bookings  The increase in backlog of $245 million in 2008 was
primarily due to an increase in classified bookings. In 2008, SAS booked $1.5 billion on a number of classified contracts.            The decrease in backlog of $315 million in 2007 was primarily due to stop work orders issued on a space classified program. In 2007, SAS booked over $860 million on a
number of classified contracts, including $381 million on a major classified program in the fourth quarter. SAS also booked $329 million related to a capability for a satellite system.             Technical Services          
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

         TS provides technical, scientific and
professional services, as well as a full-spectrum of training services and outsourcing for defense, federal and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in Mission Support, counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism, range operations, product
support, homeland security solutions and customized engineering services. In 2008, TS continued to expand its Global Training Solutions capabilities and offerings. TS led a team that secured the Air Traffic Control Optimum Training Solution (ATCOTS)
contract to maintain and improve air traffic controller (ATC) training and support the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in meeting current and future ATC demands. TS also continued as the lead for the Warfighter Field Operations Customer
Support (FOCUS) program to consolidate the U.S. Army live, virtual and constructive training operations and support systems worldwide.             Net Sales  The increase in sales of $427 million in 2008 was primarily due to $381 million of growth on our training programs, principally on the U.S.
Army s Warfighter FOCUS contract.            The increase in sales in 2007 of $21
million was primarily due to higher volume on certain Defense Threat Reduction Agency (DTRA) programs, training, and international programs, partially offset by a $113 million decrease at our depot services operation.             Operating Income and Margin  The increase in operating income of $35 million in
2008 was primarily due to increased volume. Operating margin in 2008 remained relatively consistent with 2007.            The decrease in operating income of $14 million and the decline in margins in 2007 were primarily due to lower volume in our higher margin depot services operation.             Backlog and Bookings  The increase of $827 million in backlog and increased
bookings in 2008 were primarily due to bookings on the Warfighter FOCUS and ATCOTS contracts. In 2008, TS booked $957 million and $436 million for work on the Warfighter FOCUS and ATCOTS contracts, respectively.            The increase in backlog and bookings in 2007 was primarily due to bookings on the Warfighter
FOCUS contract, work for the Department of Energy and the DTRA. In 2007, TS booked $492 million on work for the Department of Energy and the DTRA, and $118 million on the Warfighter FOCUS contract.             FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment and Corporate and Eliminations             The FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment represents the difference between our pension expense or
income under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers  Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87) and our pension expense under CAS. The results of each segment only include pension expense under CAS that we generally
recover through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government.            The components of the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment were as follows:         
          As discussed above, a key driver of
the difference between FAS and CAS expense (and consequently, the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment) is the pattern of earnings and expense recognition for gains and losses that arise when our asset and liability experience differs from our assumptions
under each set of requirements. Generally, such gains or losses are amortized under FAS over the average future working lifetime of the eligible employee population of approximately 11 years and are amortized under CAS over a 15-year period. In
accordance with both FAS and CAS, a  market-related value  of our plan assets is used to calculate the amount of deferred asset gains or losses to be amortized. The market-related value of assets is determined using actual asset gains or
losses over a certain prior period (three years for FAS and five years for CAS, subject to certain limitations under CAS on the difference between the market-related value and actual market value of assets). Because of this difference in the number
of years over which actual asset gains or losses are recognized and subsequently amortized, FAS expense generally tends to reflect the recent gains or losses faster than CAS. Another driver of CAS expense (but not FAS expense) is the funded status
of our pension plans under CAS. As noted above, CAS expense is only recognized for plans that are not fully funded; consequently, if plans become or cease to be fully funded under CAS due to our asset or liability experience, our CAS expense will
change accordingly.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

         From 2006 to 2008, our FAS expense decreased
due to the recognition of historical asset returns, which were greater than the expected return between 2003 and 2006 and the expected returns on our discretionary pension contributions. On the other hand, CAS expense over the past three years has
remained relatively consistent because the recognition of 2003 to 2006 asset returns was recognized over a longer period of time. As a result of these patterns of earnings and expense recognition, our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment expense decreased
over that period.            In 2009, we expect that our CAS expense will increase more
than our FAS expense which will result in a significant decrease in the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment. The increase in projected CAS expense is driven by negative asset returns in 2008 which caused certain plans to no longer be fully funded under CAS.
While our FAS expense also increased due to the lower than expected return on assets, the expected return on our discretionary contribution to our pension plans in 2008 as well as the additional funding requirements expected in 2009, helped to
partially offset the FAS expense increase. After 2009 the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment is difficult to predict because future FAS and CAS expense is based on a number of key assumptions for future periods. Differences between those assumptions and
future actual results could significantly change both FAS and CAS expense in future periods. However, based solely on our current assumptions at December 31, 2008, it appears that our FAS expense will exceed our CAS expense after 2009 due to
the shorter period in which the negative 2008 asset returns will be smoothed and amortized under FAS.            Corporate and Eliminations includes corporate expenses and intersegment sales and profit eliminations. Corporate expenses represent unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of
management s evaluation of reportable segment operating performance, including the $69 million reduction to operating income related to increased estimated future pension costs discussed below and the net costs associated with our residual
commuter aircraft portfolio.            The components of net sales related to Corporate
and Eliminations were as follows:         
          As discussed above in Critical
Accounting Estimates, pension costs as calculated under the U.S. Government CAS are a component of our estimated costs to complete each of our U.S. Government contracts. On an annual basis, we update our estimate of future CAS pension costs based
upon actual asset returns and other actuarial factors. When these estimated future costs increase, which occurred at December 31, 2008, driven mainly by the significant decline in the value of our pension assets, the estimated costs to complete
each existing contract increases. The amounts of revenue and profit which are recognizable based upon our estimated percent complete and expected margins on our contracts, principally on our fixed price contracts, were reduced. In the fourth quarter
of 2008, we recorded a cumulative catch-up adjustment for this reduction in revenue and profit of $69 million as part of Corporate and Eliminations consistent with our internal management reporting and performance evaluation. The components of the
adjustment are as follows:         

(In millions)  

Integrated Defense Systems   
      
  $  
  20   
 
    Intelligence and Information Systems   

7   
 
    Missile Systems   

14   
 
    Network Centric Systems   

12   
 
    Space and Airborne Systems   

12   
 
    Technical Services   

4   
 
  Total  
      
  $  
  69   
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

          DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS       Operating (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax consisted of the following results from Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options, and Other Discontinued
Operations, composed of Raytheon Engineers   Constructors and Aircraft Integration Systems:         
          In 2007, we sold our Raytheon Aircraft
Company (Raytheon Aircraft) and Flight Options LLC (Flight Options) businesses. As a result, we present Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options and our other previously disposed businesses (Other Discontinued Operations) as discontinued operations for all
periods. All residual activity relating to our disposed businesses appears in discontinued operations. We sold Raytheon Aircraft for $3,318 million in gross proceeds, $3,117 million, net. We recorded a gain on sale of $986 million, net of $612
million of federal, foreign and state taxes. We sold Flight Options and recorded a loss on sale of $73 million pretax, $44 million after-tax. In connection with the sale of Flight Options we recorded a note receivable for $9 million, which was
subsequently collected in 2008.            In 2007, we sought and received a number of
initial bids to purchase Flight Options. These initial bids were below our previous estimates of Flight Options  fair value, which was based upon its projected discounted cash flows. As a result of receiving these external indications of market
value and other conditions and events that occurred during the year, we recorded an impairment charge of $84 million pretax, $69 million after-tax, which included all of Flight Options  remaining goodwill and a portion of its other intangible
assets. In 2006 we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $55 million pretax, $48 million after-tax, related to Flight Options.            We retained certain assets and liabilities of these disposed businesses. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $71 million and $61 million,
respectively, in non-current assets primarily related to our subordinated retained interest in general aviation finance receivables previously sold by Raytheon Aircraft. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $77 million and
$88 million, respectively, primarily in current liabilities related to certain environmental and product liabilities, aircraft lease obligations, non-income tax obligations, and various contract obligations. We also have certain income tax
obligations relating to these disposed businesses, which we include in our income tax disclosures. The Internal Revenue Service recently concluded a federal excise tax audit and assessed us additional excise tax related to the treatment of certain
Flight Options customer fees and charges, which we have appealed. We continue to believe that an unfavorable outcome is not probable and expect that any potential liability will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results
of operations or liquidity. We also retained certain U.K. pension assets and obligations for a limited number of U.K. pension plan participants as part of the Raytheon Aircraft sale, which we include in our pension disclosures.            No interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 since there was no debt specifically attributable to discontinued operations or required to be repaid with proceeds from the sales.       
      FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY              Overview       We pursue a capital deployment strategy that balances funding for
growing our business, including capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development; managing our balance sheet, including debt repayments and pension contributions; and returning cash to our stockholders, including dividend payments and
share repurchases, as outlined below. Our need for, cost of and access to funds are dependent on future operating results, as well as other external  
       
   51   

Table of Contents  

conditions. We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and other available financing resources will be sufficient to meet
anticipated operating, capital expenditure, investment, debt service and other financing requirements during the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future.            During 2008, certain significant cash outflows were as follows:   

$1.7 billion of share repurchases;      

$378 million for payments for additions to plant and equipment and capitalized internal use software additions;      

$448 million of net federal and foreign tax payments;      

$54 million for business acquisitions, net of cash received; and      

$660 million of discretionary pension plan contributions.            
  We discuss these cash outflows in more detail below.            In addition, the following table highlights selected measures of our liquidity and capital resources as of December 31, 2008 and 2007:         
          The increase in total debt as a
percentage of total capital was primarily due to a reduction in equity driven by a $4.7 billion pretax, $3.0 billion after-tax, increase in the unfunded projected benefit obligation driven primarily by actual asset returns versus our expected
return.             Operating Activities          
          The increase of $817 million in net
cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to lower tax payments and pension plan contributions. The decrease of $1,545 million in net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily
due to higher pension plan contributions of $1,318 million in 2007 compared to $561 million in 2006 as well as higher net cash tax payments.             Tax Payments  Total federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds, were $448 million in 2008 compared to $734 million in 2007 and $375 million in 2006. Net
tax payments in 2007 included $631 million of payments related to the sale of Raytheon Aircraft and refunds of $381 million related to a federal research credit claim and export tax benefit claims. Federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds,
for 2009 are expected to approximate $230 million.             Pension Plan
Contributions  We make both discretionary and required contributions to our pension plans. Required contributions are primarily determined by ERISA rules and are affected by the actual return on plan assets and plan funded status. As
discretionary contributions are made, a funding credit is accumulated which can be used to offset future calculated required contributions. The funding credit for our pension plans was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2008. We made discretionary
and required contributions during 2008, 2007 and 2006 as follows:         
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

         Discretionary contributions in 2008 were
lower than in 2007 due to the acceleration of a planned 2008 contribution of $500 million into December 2007. We expect to make required contributions to our pension plans of approximately $1.1 billion in 2009. The expected increase in required
contributions over 2008 is primarily due to the impact of the significant decline in the value of our pension plan assets in 2008. We will continue to periodically evaluate whether to make additional discretionary contributions. Future funding
requirements will likely be affected by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as further discussed below in Contractual Obligations.             Financing Receivables  Collections of financing receivables were $68 million in 2008, $88 million in 2007 and $176 million in 2006. As a result of our sales of
Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options in 2007, we do not expect to originate any significant long-term aircraft financing receivables in the future; however, we continue to hold $85 million of long-term financing receivables as part of our commuter
aircraft portfolio. In 2006, we received proceeds of $53 million related to the sale of certain financing receivables.            Interest payments were $142 million, $232 million and $273 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.             Investing Activities          
          The decrease of $2,924 million in net
cash (used in) provided by investing activities in 2008 was primarily due to the proceeds from divestitures in 2007 discussed in more detail below.            Additions to property, plant and equipment were $304 million in 2008, $313 million in 2007 and $294 million in 2006. Additions to capitalized internal use software were
$74 million in 2008, $85 million in 2007 and $77 million in 2006. We expect our capital and internal use software expenditures to be approximately $370 million and $90 million, respectively, in 2009, consistent with the anticipated growth of our
business and for specific investments including program capital assets and facility improvements.            In pursuing our business strategies, we acquire and make investments in certain businesses that meet strategic and financial criteria and divest of certain non-core businesses and investments and assets when
appropriate.             Acquisitions  In 2008, we acquired Telemus Solutions,
Inc. and SI Government Solutions, which enhance our Information Operations and Information Assurance (IO/IA) capabilities, for an aggregate of $52 million in cash. In 2007, we acquired Oakley Networks, Inc., which enhanced our IO/IA capabilities,
and the robotics technologies and capabilities of Sarcos for an aggregate of $211 million, exclusive of retention and management incentive payments for future services. In 2006, we acquired Houston Associates, Inc. and Virtual Technology Corporation
for an aggregate of $87 million.             Divestitures and Sales of Other
Assets  In 2007, we received pretax net proceeds of $3,143 million related to our sales of Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options. In 2006, we sold our investment in HRL Laboratories, LLC for $28 million and received proceeds of $24 million
related to the sale of Space Imaging assets.             Financing Activities          
          We have used cash provided by
operating activities as our primary source for the repayment of debt, payment of dividends and the repurchase of our common stock. In 2007, we also used the proceeds from the sale of Raytheon Aircraft for such activities. The decrease of $1,516
million in net cash used in financing activities in 2008 was primarily due to the repayments of long-term debt in 2007 discussed in more detail below. Our next debt principal payment of $453 million is due in 2011.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

          Debt  We made no debt repayments
in 2008 compared to $1,724 million in 2007 and $382 million in 2006. Our 2007 debt repayments consisted of the retirement of $685 million of current maturities and the exercise of our call rights to repurchase, at prices based on fixed spreads to
U.S. Treasuries, $1,039 million of our long-term debt maturing between 2008-2010 at a loss of $59 million pretax, which is included in Other expense (income), net. In 2006, we retired $408 million of subordinated notes payable which had matured,
consisting of a payment of $382 million and a reduction in our investment in RC Trust I of $26 million.             Stock Repurchases  Information on our repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase programs is as follows:         
          In October 2008, our Board of
Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008 we had not repurchased any shares of our common stock under this program.            In October 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0
billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $1,930 million of our common stock had been repurchased and approximately $70 million remained under this program.            In December 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of
our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the fourth quarter of 2007. In March 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the
second quarter of 2007. In November 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $700 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the third quarter of 2006.             Cash Dividends  Our Board of Directors authorized
the following cash dividends:         
          Although we do not have a formal
dividend policy we believe that a reasonable dividend payout ratio is approximately one third of our economic earnings (income excluding the FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment). Dividends are subject to quarterly approval by our Board of Directors.
            CAPITAL RESOURCES             Total debt was $2.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Our outstanding debt bears contractual interest at fixed interest rates
ranging from 4.9% to 7.2% and matures at various dates through 2028. We entered into various interest rate swaps that correspond to a portion of our fixed-rate debt in order to effectively hedge interest rate risk by converting that portion of our
total fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt based on LIBOR. The notional value of interest rate swaps outstanding was $575 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007.             Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and cash equivalents were $2.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and $2.7 billion at
December 31, 2007. We invest cash directly in U.S. Treasuries; commercial paper of financial institutions and corporations with AA-/Aa3 or better long-term and A-1+/P-1 short-term debt ratings, or guaranteed by the U.S. Government s TLGP
program; AAA/Aaa U.S. Treasury money market funds; and interest bearing accounts. Cash balances held at our foreign subsidiaries were approximately 15% of our total cash balance at December 31, 2008, and are deemed to be indefinitely
reinvested.               
   54   

Table of Contents  

          Credit Facilities  We have a $2.2
billion bank revolving credit facility under which we can draw on lines of credit, issue letters of credit and backstop commercial paper. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 40 basis points (based on Raytheon s
credit rating at December 31, 2008). The credit facility is comprised of commitments from approximately thirty separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the entire facility. The credit facility matures in March 2010 and
we intend to renew prior to maturity. The terms of the renewed facility, including the amount of the facility, maturity, pricing and covenants, will depend on market conditions at the time of renewal. As of December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007, there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility. However, we had approximately $40 million and $60 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which effectively
reduced our borrowing capacity under the credit facility by that same amount at each of the respective dates.            Under our credit facility, we must comply with certain covenants, including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 50% and a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization (EBITDA) to consolidated net interest expense, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no less than 3.0 to 1.0. We were in compliance with the covenants during 2008 and 2007. Our ratio of total debt to total
capitalization was 20.3% and 15.3% at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our ratio of EBITDA to consolidated net interest expense was 45.4 and 105.9 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.            Certain of our foreign subsidiaries maintain revolving bank lines of credit to provide them
with a limited amount of short-term liquidity. In 2005, Raytheon United Kingdom Limited, a U.K. subsidiary, entered into a three year, $150 million committed multicurrency revolving credit facility that expired in December 2008 and was not renewed.
There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2007. In addition, other uncommitted bank lines totaled approximately $10 million and $15 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There were no amounts
outstanding under these lines of credit at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Compensating balance arrangements are not material.             Credit Ratings  Three major corporate debt rating organizations, Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) and Standard  
Poor s (S P), assign ratings to our short-term and long-tem debt. The following chart reflects the current ratings assigned by each of these agencies to our short-term debt and long-term senior unsecured debt:         
          In September 2008, Fitch upgraded our
long-term senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to A- and S P upgraded our long-term senior unsecured debt rating from BBB+ to A-.             Shelf Registrations  The capacity of our current shelf registration, filed with the SEC in October 2008, is $3.0 billion, of which $450 million was used for
the registration of common stock issuable under certain outstanding warrants issued in 2006.            During the current downturn in global financial markets, some companies have experienced difficulties accessing their cash equivalents, trading investment securities, drawing on revolvers, issuing debt and raising
capital generally, which have had a material adverse impact on their liquidity. Given our current cash position, credit ratings, available credit facilities, cash needs, and debt structure, along with the type of short-term investments we have made,
we have not experienced any material issues and we continue to expect that our current liquidity, notwithstanding these adverse market conditions, will be sufficient to meet all our anticipated needs during the next twelve months and for the
foreseeable future.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

          CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS       The following is a schedule of our contractual obligations outstanding at December 31, 2008:         

(1)    
    Debt includes scheduled principal payments only.      

(2)    
    Capital lease payments are not material.               Purchase obligations in the table above represent agreements with suppliers to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally
binding. We enter into contracts with customers, primarily the U.S. Government, which entitles us to full recourse for costs incurred, including purchase obligations, in the event the contract is terminated by the customer for convenience. These
purchase obligations are included above notwithstanding the amount for which we are entitled to full recourse from our customers. The table above does not include pension and other postretirement contributions which we expect to make in 2009 of up
to $1.2 billion, exclusive of any government recovery.            In 2006, the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 (the Pension Act) was signed into law. Under the Pension Act, companies will be required to fully fund their pension plans over a seven-year period. For certain defense contractors, the new funding rules become effective no
sooner than 2009 and no later than 2011, depending on when the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards Board (CAS Board) aligns the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) with the new funding requirements.            In September 2008, the CAS Board issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on the
harmonization of certain CAS with the Pension Act. It is expected that the final rule would provide a framework to partially harmonize the CAS and ERISA rules as revised by the Pension Act, which requires companies to fully fund their pension plans
over a seven-year period.            Interest payments include interest on debt that is
redeemable at the option of the Company and do not include interest payments on interest rate swap agreements.            As of December 31, 2008, the total amount of net unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions and the accrual for the related interest, net of the federal benefit, was $478 million. We are unable to make
a reasonably reliable estimate when cash settlement, if any, will occur with a tax authority as the timing of examinations and ultimate resolutions of those examinations is uncertain.             OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS       We have entered
into off-balance sheet arrangements, including the sale of general aviation receivables. Such arrangements are not material to our overall liquidity or capital resources, market risk support or credit risk support as detailed below. We also issue
guarantees to third parties on behalf of our affiliates as described below in Commitments and Contingencies.            In 2006, we sold $67 million of general aviation finance receivables to a qualifying special purpose entity which in turn issued beneficial interests in these receivables to a commercial paper conduit, and retained a
subordinated interest in and servicing rights to the receivables. The sale was non-recourse to us due to third party financial guarantees. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the outstanding balance of securitized accounts receivable from the 2006
and previous sales of general aviation finance receivables held by the third party conduit totaled $99 million and $135 million, respectively, of which our subordinated retained interest was $66 million and $63 million, respectively, and the fair
value of the servicing liability was less than $1 million in both years.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

         In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee
of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S. Export-Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to the System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program being performed by NCS. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government
were current at December 31, 2008.            In addition, we have entered into
certain joint ventures formed specifically to facilitate a teaming arrangement between two contractors for the benefit of the customer, generally the U.S. Government, whereby we receive a subcontract from the joint venture in the joint
venture s capacity as prime contractor. Accordingly, we record the work we perform for the joint venture as an operating activity.             COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES       We are involved in various stages of
investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of total environmental remediation costs is $157 million at December 31, 2008. Discounted at a weighted-average risk-free rate of 5.7%, we estimate
the liability to be $105 million before U.S. Government recovery and had this amount accrued at December 31, 2008. A portion of these costs are eligible for future recovery through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S.
Government. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs. Accordingly, we recorded $69 million in Contracts in process through December 31, 2008
for the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. Government. We also lease certain government-owned properties and are generally not liable for environmental remediation at these sites; as a result, we generally do not reflect the
provision for these costs in our consolidated financial statements. Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance
coverage and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of these matters; however, we do not expect any additional liability to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.            We issue guarantees and banks and surety companies
issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations of us or our affiliates. Approximately $281 million, $1,012 million and $111 million of these guarantees,
letters of credit and surety bonds, for which there were stated values, were outstanding at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $261 million, $910 million and $104 million were outstanding at December 31, 2007, respectively. These
instruments expire on various dates through 2015. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding.            Included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $59 million and $180 million at December 31, 2008, respectively and $39 million and $193 million at
December 31, 2007, respectively, related to our joint venture in Thales-Raytheon Systems Co. Ltd. (TRS). TRS has two major operating subsidiaries, one of which, Thales-Raytheon Systems Co. LLC (TRS LLC), we control and consolidate and the other
one, Thales-Raytheon Systems Company S.A.S. (TRS SAS), which we account for using the equity method through our investment in TRS. Our investment in TRS was $227 million at December 31, 2008 and $165 million at December 31, 2007.
           We provide these guarantees and letters of credit to TRS and other affiliates
to assist these entities in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual obligations. While we expect these entities to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual
obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had an estimated liability of $2 million and $3 million, respectively, related to these guarantees and letters of credit. We evaluate
the risk of TRS and other affiliates failing to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations described above periodically. At December 31, 2008 we believe the risk that TRS and other affiliates will not be able to
perform or meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations were current at December 31, 2008.       
     Also included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $86 million and $6 million at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $85 million
and $21 million at December 31, 2007, respectively, related to discontinued operations.            Our residual turbo-prop commuter aircraft portfolio has exposure to outstanding financing arrangements with the aircraft serving as collateral. We have sold and leased commuter aircraft globally to thinly capitalized
companies whose financial condition could be significantly affected by a number of factors, including rising fuel and other costs, industry consolidation, declining commercial aviation market conditions and the U.S. Government budget for the
Essential Air  
       
   57   

Table of Contents  

Service program. Based on recent economic trends, including tightening credit markets and volatile fuel costs, these companies may increasingly experience
difficulties meeting their financial commitments. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our exposure on commuter aircraft assets held as inventory, collateral on notes or as leased assets, was approximately $170 million relating to
127 aircraft and approximately $250 million relating to 156 aircraft, respectively. The valuation of used aircraft in inventories, which are stated at cost, but not in excess of realizable value, requires significant judgment. The valuation of used
aircraft is also considered in assessing the realizable value of certain commuter aircraft related assets which serve as collateral for the underlying financing arrangements. As part of the assessment of realizable value, we evaluate many factors
including sales transaction history, current market conditions, anticipated future market conditions and age and condition of the aircraft. The carrying value of our commuter aircraft portfolio assumes an orderly disposition of these assets,
consistent with our historical experience and strategy. If we were to dispose of these assets in an other than orderly manner or sell the portfolio in its entirety, the value realized would likely be less than the carrying value.            Government contractors are subject to many levels of audit and investigation. Agencies that
oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense and other departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional
Committees. The Department of Justice, from time to time, has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government
laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with such local government regulation or any applicable U.S. Government regulation (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations)
may also be investigated or audited. We do not expect these audits and investigations to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate.             ACCOUNTING STANDARDS       In March 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS No. 161). SFAS
No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures regarding an entity s derivative and hedging activities. These enhanced disclosures include information regarding how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and
related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and its related interpretations; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity s financial
position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not have an impact on
our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.            In December 2007,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) expands the definition of a business and establishes the use of the acquisition method for business combinations. This method requires all
assets and liabilities, including goodwill, of an acquired business to be measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Among other things, the standard requires entities to expense most transaction and restructuring costs; establishes fair value
measurement for contingent consideration in earnings; and requires capitalization of in-process research and development. The standard also modifies the recording and presentation of deferred taxes. SFAS No. 141(R) will be applied prospectively
to business combinations with acquisition dates on or after January 1, 2009. Our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to materially impact our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity when it becomes
effective. Subsequent to our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R), the resolution of existing balances related to uncertain tax positions from prior acquisitions that differ from previously recorded amounts will be adjusted through earnings.   
        In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests by recharacterizing
them as noncontrolling interests and classifying them as a component of Stockholders  equity in our consolidated balance sheet. Our consolidated statements of operations will include: net income from Raytheon and the minority shareholders 
share of earnings and a new category called net earnings attributable to Raytheon, which is similar to our current presentation of Net income. SFAS  
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

No. 160 will also expand disclosures to clearly distinguish between our interests and the interests  of noncontrolling owners. Our primary
noncontrolling interest relates to Thales-Raytheon Systems Co. LLC (TRS LLC), which we control and consolidate. Both TRS LLC and Thales-Raytheon Systems Co. Ltd. (TRS), an equity method investment which has the principal economic interest in TRS
LLC, are components in computing the operating results of our Network Centric Systems segment. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 160, we will present the noncontrolling interest in TRS LLC and the related equity method investment in TRS net of any
obligations or interests to Raytheon. This will effectively reduce the minority interest in TRS LLC and the balance of our equity investment in TRS. The effect of this as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 will be to reduce the
balance of the equity investment in TRS by $162 million and $133 million, respectively, with a corresponding decrease in the reported noncontrolling interest. SFAS No. 160 is effective beginning January 1, 2009 and will be applied
prospectively, except for presentation and disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. SFAS No. 160 does not impact the calculation of Net income or Earnings per share attributable to Raytheon
shareholders.            Other new pronouncements issued but not effective until after
December 31, 2008, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.               ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK             Our primary market exposures are to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.            We meet our working capital requirements with a combination of variable-rate short-term and
fixed-rate long-term financing. We enter into interest rate swap agreements with commercial and investment banks to manage interest rates associated with our financing arrangements. We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts with
commercial banks to fix the foreign currency exchange rates on specific commitments and payments to vendors and customer receipts. The market-risk sensitive instruments we use for hedging are entered into with commercial and investment banks and are
directly related to a particular asset, liability or transaction for which a firm commitment is in place.            The following tables provide information as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 about our market risk exposure associated with changing interest rates. For long-term debt obligations, the table presents principal cash
flows by maturity date and average interest rates related to outstanding obligations. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. For forward currency
exchange contracts, the table presents notional principal amounts by contractual maturity dates.             As of December 31, 2008        Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by
Contractual Maturity Dates        (In millions, except percentages)          
           As of
December 31, 2007        Principal Payments and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates        (In millions, except percentages)          
       
   59   

Table of Contents  

          As of December 31,
2008        Aggregate Notional Amounts Associated with Interest Rate Swaps in Place        and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates        (In millions, except percentages)          
           As of
December 31, 2007        Aggregate Notional Amounts Associated with Interest Rate Swaps in Place        and Interest Rate Detail by Contractual Maturity Dates        (In millions, except percentages)          
          We also had foreign currency forward
contracts which consisted of the following major currencies at December 31, 2008 and 2007:         
          Unrealized gains of $81 million were
included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $107 million were included in current liabilities at December 31, 2008. For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting, the effective
portion of the gain or loss on the derivative was reported as a component of Other comprehensive loss, net of tax. Gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets
or liabilities being hedged. We believe our exposure due to changes in foreign currency rates is not material due to our hedging policy.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

            ITEM 8. FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA              COMPANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      The financial statements and related information contained in this Annual Report have been prepared by and are the responsibility of our management.
Our financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and reflect judgments and estimates as to the expected effects of transactions and events currently being
reported. Our management is responsible for the integrity and objectivity of the financial statements and other financial information included in this Annual Report. To meet this responsibility, we maintain a system of internal control over
financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that transactions are properly executed and recorded. The system includes policies and procedures, internal audits and our officers  reviews.            Our Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is composed solely of directors who are
independent under applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange rules. Our Audit Committee meets periodically and, when appropriate, separately with representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm, our officers and the internal
auditors to monitor the activities of each.            PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, was appointed by our Audit Committee to audit our financial statements and our internal control over financial reporting and their report follows. Our stockholders ratified the appointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.             MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting for the Company. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management has conducted an assessment,
including testing, using the criteria in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s system of internal control over financial reporting is
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            Based on its assessment, management has concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
criteria in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the COSO. The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included below.         

/s/ William H. Swanson   
      
  /s/ David C. Wajsgras   
 
    William H. Swanson   
      
  David C. Wajsgras   
 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Raytheon Company:
           In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of stockholders  equity, and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Raytheon Company and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.            As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, in
2008, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for, and discloses, the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. Also as discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2008, the Company changed the manner in which
it accounts for obligations associated with certain life insurance agreements. As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2007, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for, and discloses, uncertain tax
positions. As discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2006, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for, and discloses, pensions and other post-employment benefits.            A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.            Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      February 25, 2009         
   62   

Table of Contents  

          RAYTHEON COMPANY              CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS          
          The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the consolidated financial statements.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

          RAYTHEON COMPANY              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS          
          The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the consolidated financial statements.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

          RAYTHEON COMPANY              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY          
          The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the consolidated financial statements.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

          RAYTHEON COMPANY              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS          
          The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the consolidated financial statements.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
    Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        Consolidation and Classification  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Raytheon Company and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and foreign subsidiaries. All intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. For classification of certain current assets and liabilities, we use the duration of the related contract or program as our operating cycle, which is generally longer than one year. In addition, certain prior year
amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation. As used in these notes, the terms  we ,  us ,  our ,  Raytheon  and the  Company  mean Raytheon Company and its
subsidiaries, unless the context indicates another meaning.             Use of
Estimates  Our consolidated financial statements are based on the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that
affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual
results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements.             Revenue Recognition  We account for our contracts associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic
equipment and related services, or those otherwise within the scope of Chapter 11 of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43, Government Contracts (ARB No. 43) or Statement of Position 81-1, Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and
Certain Production-Type Contracts (SOP 81-1), such as certain cost-plus service contracts, using the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the
long-term contract. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under SOP 81-1 are met. Similarly, we may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or a group of contracts, with varying rates of
profitability, only if all the applicable criteria under SOP 81-1 are met.            We
generally use the cost-to-cost measure of progress for all of our long-term contracts unless we believe another method more clearly measures progress towards completion of the contract. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of
progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred-to-date to the total estimated costs at completion of the contract. Revenues, including estimated earned fees or profits, are recorded as costs are incurred. Incentive and
award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer, achievement of certain program milestones or achievement of certain cost targets. Incentive and award fees are generally awarded at the discretion of the customer or upon
achievement of certain program milestones or cost targets. Incentive and award fees, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating profit rates. Estimates of award fees are based on actual awards and anticipated
performance which may include the performance of subcontractor or partners depending upon the individual contract requirements. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not
recognized until the event occurs. Such incentives and penalties are recorded when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance. Our claims on contracts are recorded only if it is probable the claim will result in
additional contract revenue and the amounts can be reliably estimated.            Changes
in estimates of contract sales, costs of sales and profits are recognized using a cumulative catch-up, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior periods. A significant change in one or more of
these estimates could affect the profitability of one or more of our contracts. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in
the period the loss is determined.            To a much lesser extent, we enter into
contracts that are not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment and related services, or not otherwise within the scope of ARB No. 43 or SOP 81-1. We account for those
contracts in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition, or other relevant revenue recognition accounting literature.  
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 Revenue under such contracts is generally recognized upon delivery or as the service is performed. Revenue on contracts to sell software is recognized in
accordance with the requirements of Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition. Revenue from non-software license fees is recognized over the expected life of the continued involvement with the customer. Royalty revenue is recognized
when earned. Revenue generated from fixed price service contracts not associated with the design, development, manufacture, or modification of complex aerospace or electronic equipment is recognized as services are rendered once persuasive evidence
of an arrangement exists, our price is fixed or determinable, and we have determined collectability is reasonably assured.            We apply the separation guidance in Emerging Issues Task Force 00-21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables for contracts with multiple deliverables. Revenue
arrangements with multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine if the deliverables should be divided into more than one unit of accounting. For contracts with more than one unit of accounting, we recognize revenue for each deliverable based on
the revenue recognition policies discussed above.             Research and Development
Expenses  Expenditures for Company-sponsored research and development projects and bid and proposal costs are expensed as incurred. Customer-sponsored research and development projects performed under contracts are accounted for as contract
costs as the work is performed. Bid and proposal costs were between 40% and 50% of total Research and development expenses in 2008, 2007 and 2006.             Federal, Foreign and State Income Taxes  The Company and our domestic subsidiaries provide for federal income taxes on pretax accounting income at rates in
effect under existing tax law. Foreign subsidiaries record provisions for income taxes at applicable foreign tax rates in a similar manner. The payments made for state income taxes are included in Administrative and selling expenses as these costs
can generally be recovered through the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government in the period in which the tax is payable. Accordingly, the state income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to contracts in future periods as discussed
below in Deferred Contract Costs.             Other Income and Expense  Other
income and expense consists primarily of gains and losses from our investments held in rabbi trusts used to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans, gains and losses on the early repurchase of long-term debt and certain
financing fees.             Cash and Cash Equivalents  Cash and cash
equivalents consist of cash and short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase.             Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to provide for the estimated amount of accounts receivable that will not be
collected. The allowance is based upon an assessment of customer credit-worthiness, historical payment experience, the age of outstanding receivables and collateral to the extent applicable.            Activity related to the allowance for doubtful accounts was as follows:         
       
   68   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Contracts in Process  Contracts in process are stated at cost plus estimated profit, but not in excess of
estimated realizable value.             Deferred Contract Costs  Certain costs
incurred in the performance of our U.S. Government contracts are required to be recorded under GAAP but are not currently allocable to contracts. Such costs are deferred and primarily include a portion of our environmental expenses, asset retirement
obligations, certain restructuring costs, deferred state income tax, workers  compensation and other accruals. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the net deferred contract costs were approximately $70 million and $80 million,
respectively. These costs are allocated to contracts when they are paid or otherwise agreed. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires us to make assumptions about the extent of cost recovery under our
contracts and the amount of future contract activity. If the level of backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected.            Pension and other postretirement benefit costs are allocated to our contracts as allowed
costs based upon the U.S. Government cost accounting standards (CAS). The CAS requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit costs differ from the financial accounting standards (FAS) requirements under U.S. GAAP. Given the inherent
difficulty in matching individual expense and income items between the CAS and FAS requirements to determine specific recoverability, we have not estimated the incremental FAS expense to be recoverable under our expected future contract activity,
and therefore have not deferred any FAS expense for pension and other postretirement benefit plans in 2006-2008. This resulted in $123 million, $259 million and $362 million of incremental expense reflected in our results of operations for 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively, for the difference between CAS and FAS requirements for our pension plans in those years.             Inventories  Inventories are stated at cost (first-in, first-out or average cost), but not in excess of realizable value. A write down for excess or inactive
inventory is recorded based upon an analysis that considers current inventory levels, historical usage patterns, future sales expectations and salvage value.            Inventories consisted of the following at December 31:         
          We capitalize costs incurred in
advance of contract award or funding in inventory if we determine the contract award or funding is probable. These precontract costs exclude any start-up costs. We included capitalized precontract and other deferred costs of $85 million and $95
million in Inventories as work in process at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.             Property, Plant and Equipment, Net  Property, plant and equipment, net are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Major improvements are capitalized while expenditures for maintenance, repairs and
minor improvements are expensed. Gains and losses resulting from the sale of plant and equipment at the government and defense businesses are included in overhead and reflected in the pricing of products and services to the U.S. Government. For all
other sales or asset retirements, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are eliminated from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in income.            Provisions for depreciation are generally computed using a combination of accelerated and straight-line methods. Depreciation provisions are
based on estimated useful lives as follows:         
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the remaining life of the lease or the estimated useful life
of the improvement.             Impairment of Goodwill and Long-lived
Assets  We comply with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS No. 142), which requires that we evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually
or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of that goodwill may not be recoverable. We perform our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter utilizing a two-step methodology that requires us to first identify potential
goodwill impairment and then measure the amount of the related goodwill impairment loss, if any. We have identified our operating segments as reporting units under the impairment test assessment criteria outlined in SFAS No. 142. In performing
our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of 2008 and 2007, we did not identify any goodwill impairment associated with our continuing operations.            In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we determine whether long-lived assets are to be held for use or
held for disposal. Upon indication of possible impairment, we evaluate the recoverability of held for use long-lived assets by measuring the carrying amount of the assets against the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows. When an
evaluation indicates that the future undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the carrying value of the asset, the asset is adjusted to its estimated fair value. In order for long-lived assets to be considered held for disposal, we must
have committed to a plan to dispose of the assets. Once deemed held for disposal, the assets are stated at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value.             Computer Software  Internal use computer software, which consists primarily of an integrated financial package, is stated at cost less accumulated amortization
and is amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, generally 10 years.             Advance Payments and Billings in Excess of Costs Incurred  We receive advances, performance-based payments and progress payments from customers that may exceed costs incurred on certain contracts. We
classify Advance payments and billings in excess of costs incurred, other than those reflected as a reduction of Contracts in process, as current liabilities.         
   Product Warranty  We provide for product warranties in conjunction with certain product sales where revenue is recognized upon delivery.            Activity related to warranty accruals was as follows:         
          We account for costs incurred under
warranty provisions performed under long-term contracts as contract costs using the cost-to-cost measure of progress and exclude these costs from the table above, as the estimation of these costs is an integral part of the pricing determination of
these long-term contracts.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Comprehensive Income  Comprehensive income and its components are presented in the consolidated statements
of stockholders  equity.            Accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted
of the following at December 31:         
          The unfunded projected benefit
obligation is shown net of tax benefits of $2,759 million and $1,129 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The cash flow hedges are shown net of tax benefits of $10 million and net of tax liabilities of $11 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The unrealized gains on interest-only strips are shown net of tax liabilities of $2 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007. The interest rate lock is shown net of tax benefits of $1 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007.             Translation of Foreign
Currencies  Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated at current exchange rates and the effects of these translation adjustments are reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income in
Stockholders  equity. Deferred taxes are not recognized for translation-related temporary differences of foreign subsidiaries as their undistributed earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Income and expenses in foreign
currencies are translated at the average exchange rate during the period. Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were not material.             Pension Costs  We have pension plans covering the majority of employees, including certain employees in foreign countries. We
must calculate our pension costs under both U.S. Government CAS and FAS requirements under U.S. GAAP. CAS prescribes the allocation to and recovery of pension costs on U.S. Government contracts through the pricing of products and services and the
methodology to determine such costs. SFAS No. 87, Employer s Accounting for Pensions (SFAS No. 87), the applicable standard under FAS, outlines the methodology used to determine pension expense or income for financial reporting
purposes. Annual charges to income are made for the cost of the plans, including current service costs, interest on projected benefit obligations and net amortization and deferrals, increased or reduced by the return on assets. The CAS requirements
for pension costs and its calculation methodology differ from the FAS requirements and calculation methodology. As a result, while both CAS and FAS use long-term assumptions in their calculation methodologies, each method results in different
calculated amounts of determined pension cost. In addition, the cash funding requirements for our pension plans are determined under the Employee Retirement Security Act (ERISA).            We record CAS expense in the results of our business segments. Due to the differences between FAS and CAS amounts, we also present the
difference between FAS and CAS expense, referred to as our FAS/CAS Pension Adjustment, as a separate line item in our business segment results. This effectively increases or decreases the amount of pension expense in our results of operations so
such amount is equal to the FAS expense amount under SFAS No. 87.            For
purposes of determining SFAS No. 87 pension expense, investment gains and losses are spread over 3 years to develop a market-related value of the assets.         
  We adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158) as of December 31, 2006. SFAS No. 158 requires us to recognize the funded status of a postretirement benefit plan (defined benefit pension and other benefits) as
an asset or liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Funded status represents the         
   71   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   difference between the projected benefit obligation of the plan and the market value of the plan s assets.
Previously unrecognized deferred amounts such as demographic or asset gains or losses and the impact of historical plan changes are included in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. Changes in these amounts in future years are adjusted as
they occur through Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. These amounts will be amortized and included in future pension expense over the average employee service period.            The adoption of SFAS No. 158 resulted in a $1.9 billion increase, from $2.3 billion to $4.2 billion, in Accrued retiree benefits and
other long-term liabilities and a corresponding $1.3 billion increase, net of taxes, in Accumulated other comprehensive loss in Stockholders  equity. In addition, the intangible asset of $128 million previously established under SFAS
No. 87 was eliminated. In accordance with SFAS No. 158, prior periods have not been restated.             Derivative Financial Instruments  We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to manage the currency exchange rate risk associated with forecasted foreign currency purchases and sales under our
customer contracts. We enter into pay-variable, receive-fixed interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk associated with our fixed-rate financing obligations.            We recognize all derivative financial instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. We
designate foreign currency forward contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies, and interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of our fixed-rate financing obligations. We classify the cash flows
from these instruments in the same category as the cash flows from the items being hedged. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.            For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss
on the derivative is reported as a component of Other comprehensive loss, net of tax, and recognized in earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged revenue or cost of sales transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on
derivatives not designated for hedge accounting, or representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings currently.            We account for our interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of a portion of our fixed-rate
financing obligations, and accordingly record gains and losses from changes in the fair value of these swaps in Interest expense, along with the offsetting gains and losses on the fair value adjustment of the hedged portion of our fixed rate
financing obligations. We also record in Interest expense the net amount paid or received under the swap for the period and the amortization of gain or loss from the early termination of interest rate swaps.             Employee Stock Plans  Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date
based on the calculated fair value of the award. The expense is recognized over the employees  requisite service period, generally the vesting period of the award. The expense is amortized over the service period using the graded vesting method
for our restricted stock and restricted stock units and the straight line amortization method for our Long Term Performance Plan (LTPP). The related gross excess tax benefit received upon exercise of stock options or vesting of a stock-based award,
if any, is reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows as a financing activity rather than an operating activity.             Risks and Uncertainties  We provide a wide range of technologically advanced products, services and solutions for principally governmental customers in the
U.S. and abroad, and are subject to certain business risks specific to that industry. Sales to the government may be affected by changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, changing concepts of national defense, political developments
abroad and other factors.             Note 2: Accounting Standards       In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (SFAS
No. 161). SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures regarding an entity s derivative and hedging activities. These enhanced disclosures include information regarding how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative
instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS  
       
   72   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and its related interpretations; and how derivative instruments and related
hedged items affect an entity s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. The adoption
of SFAS No. 161 will not have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.            In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) expands the definition of a business and establishes the use of the acquisition method for
business combinations. This method requires all assets and liabilities, including goodwill, of an acquired business to be measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Among other things, the standard requires entities to expense most transaction
and restructuring costs; establishes fair value measurement for contingent consideration in earnings; and requires capitalization of in-process research and development. The standard also modifies the recording and presentation of deferred taxes.
SFAS No. 141(R) will be applied prospectively to business combinations with acquisition dates on or after January 1, 2009. Our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to materially impact our consolidated financial position,
results of operations or liquidity when it becomes effective. Subsequent to our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R), the resolution of existing balances related to uncertain tax positions from prior acquisitions that differ from previously recorded
amounts will be adjusted through earnings.            In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting
for minority interests by recharacterizing them as noncontrolling interests and classifying them as a component of Stockholders  equity in our consolidated balance sheet. Our consolidated statements of operations will include: net income from
Raytheon and the minority stockholders  share of earnings and a new category called net earnings attributable to Raytheon, which is similar to our current presentation of Net income. SFAS No. 160 will also expand disclosures to clearly
distinguish between our interests and the interests  of noncontrolling owners. Our primary noncontrolling interest relates to Thales-Raytheon Systems Co. LLC (TRS LLC), which we control and consolidate. Both TRS LLC and Thales-Raytheon Systems
Co. Ltd. (TRS), an equity method investment which has the principal economic interest in TRS LLC, are components in computing the operating results of our Network Centric Systems segment. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 160, we will present the
noncontrolling interest in TRS LLC and the related equity method investment in TRS net of any obligations or interests to Raytheon. This will effectively reduce the minority interest in TRS LLC and the balance of our equity investment in TRS. The
effect of this as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 will be to reduce the balance of the equity investment in TRS by $162 million and $133 million, respectively, with a corresponding decrease in the reported noncontrolling
interest. SFAS No. 160 is effective beginning January 1, 2009 and will be applied prospectively, except for presentation and disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. SFAS No. 160 does
not impact the calculation of Net income or Earnings per share attributable to Raytheon shareholders.            Other new pronouncements issued but not effective until after December 31, 2008, are not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.             Note 3: Acquisitions       In 2008, we paid $52 million in cash to acquire Telemus Solutions, Inc. and SI Government Solutions at Intelligence Information Systems (IIS). We recorded $39 million of goodwill and $9 million in intangible assets in
connection with these acquisitions.            In 2007, we paid $211 million in cash to
acquire Oakley Networks, Inc. at IIS and the robotics technologies and capabilities of Sarcos at Integrated Defense Systems (IDS). We recorded $38 million in intangible assets, primarily related to completed technology and customer relationships
with a weighted-average life of 6 years and $165 million of goodwill in connection with these acquisitions.            In 2006, we paid $87 million in cash to acquire Virtual Technology Corporation and Houston Associates, Inc. at Network Centric Systems (NCS). We recorded $18 million in intangible assets and $60 million in goodwill in
connection with these acquisitions.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Pro forma financial information has not been provided for these acquisitions as they are not material either
individually or in the aggregate.            We funded each of the above acquisitions
using cash on hand. The operating results of these businesses have been included with our consolidated results as of the respective closing dates of the acquisitions. The purchase price of these businesses has been allocated to the estimated fair
value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. We completed these acquisitions to enhance our technology portfolio. Tax deductible goodwill related to these acquisitions totaled $72
million.             Note 4: Discontinued Operations       Operating (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax, consisted of the following results from Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options, and Other Discontinued
Operations, composed of Raytheon Engineers   Constructors and Aircraft Integration Systems:         
          In 2007, we sold our Raytheon Aircraft
Company (Raytheon Aircraft) and Flight Options LLC (Flight Options) businesses. As a result, we present Raytheon Aircraft, Flight Options and our other previously disposed businesses (Other Discontinued Operations) as discontinued operations for all
periods. All residual activity relating to our disposed businesses appears in discontinued operations. We sold Raytheon Aircraft for $3,318 million in gross proceeds, $3,117 million, net. We recorded a gain on sale of $986 million, net of $612
million of federal, foreign and state taxes. We sold Flight Options and recorded a loss on sale of $73 million pretax, $44 million after-tax. In connection with the sale of Flight Options we recorded a note receivable for $9 million, which was
subsequently collected in 2008.            In 2007, we sought and received a number of
initial bids to purchase Flight Options. These initial bids were below our previous estimates of Flight Options  fair value, which was based upon its projected discounted cash flows. As a result of receiving these external indications of market
value and other conditions and events that occurred during the year, we recorded an impairment charge of $84 million pretax, $69 million after-tax in 2007, which included all of Flight Options  remaining goodwill and a portion of its other
intangible assets. In 2006, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $55 million pretax, $48 million after-tax, related to Flight Options.            We retained certain assets and liabilities of these disposed businesses. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $71 million and $61 million,
respectively, in non-current assets primarily related to our subordinated retained interest in general aviation finance receivables previously sold by Raytheon Aircraft. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $77 million and
$88 million, respectively, primarily in current liabilities related to certain environmental and product liabilities, aircraft lease obligations, non-income tax obligations, and various contract obligations. We also have certain income tax
obligations relating to these disposed businesses, which we include in our income tax disclosures. The Internal Revenue Service recently concluded a federal excise tax audit and assessed us additional excise tax related to the treatment of certain
Flight Options customer fees and charges, which we have appealed. We continue to believe that an unfavorable outcome is not probable and expect that any potential liability will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results
of operations or liquidity. We also retained certain U.K. pension assets and obligations for a limited number of U.K. pension plan participants as part of the Raytheon Aircraft sale, which we include in our pension disclosures.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   No interest expense was allocated to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006 since there was no debt specifically attributable to discontinued operations or required to be repaid with proceeds from the sales.            The income (loss) from discontinued operations related to Raytheon Aircraft and Flight Options was as follows:         
           Note 5: Contracts in Process    
  Contracts in process consisted of the following at December 31, 2008:         
          Contracts in process consisted of the
following at December 31, 2007:         
          The U.S. Government has title to the
assets related to unbilled amounts on contracts that provide for progress payments. Unbilled amounts are recorded under the percentage of completion method and are recoverable from the customer upon shipment of the product, presentation of billings
or completion of the contract. Included in unbilled at December 31, 2008 was $226 million which is expected to be collected outside of one year.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Billed and unbilled contracts in process include retentions arising from contractual provisions. At December 31,
2008, retentions were $69 million and are anticipated to be collected as follows: $53 million in 2009 and the balance thereafter.             Note 6: Property, Plant and Equipment, Net       Property, plant and equipment, net
consisted of the following at December 31:         
          Depreciation and amortization expense
of Property, plant and equipment, net was $292 million, $288 million and $285 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Accumulated depreciation on equipment leased to others was $34 million and $32 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.             Note 7: Other Assets, Net       Other assets, net consisted of the following at December 31:         
          Long-term receivables included
commuter aircraft receivables related to our residual commuter aircraft portfolio in which the underlying aircraft serve as collateral of $58 million and $123 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We maintain reserves for
estimated uncollectible aircraft-related long-term receivables. The balance of these reserves was $1 million and $2 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The reserves for estimated uncollectible aircraft-related long-term
receivables represent our current estimate of future losses.            We accrue
interest, generally at rates between 5.5% and 8.0%, on aircraft-related long-term receivables in accordance with the terms of the underlying notes. When an aircraft-related long-term receivable is over 90 days past due, we generally stop accruing
interest. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no aircraft-related long-term receivables on which we were not accruing interest.            In 2006, we sold $64 million of general aviation finance receivables without any continuing involvement. In 2006, we also sold an undivided interest of general aviation
finance receivables, while retaining a subordinated interest in and servicing rights to the receivables. We received proceeds of $67 million and recognized a gain of $1 million. We irrevocably, and without recourse, transferred the receivables to
the qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), formed in 2003, which in turn, issued beneficial interests in these receivables to a commercial paper conduit. The transaction involves a third party guarantee of the conduit investment. The assets of
the QSPE are not available to pay the claims of the Company or any other entity. We retained a subordinated interest in the receivables sold of approximately 3%. The conduit obtained the funds to purchase the interest in the receivables, other than
the retained interest, by selling commercial paper to third-party investors. We retained responsibility for the collection and administration of receivables. We continue to service the sold receivables and charge the third party conduit a monthly
servicing fee at market rates.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   We accounted for the sale under SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishment of Liabilities. The gain was determined at the date of transfer based upon the relative fair value of the assets sold and the interests retained. We estimated the fair value at the date of transfer and at December 31, 2008 and
2007 based on the present value of future expected cash flows using certain key assumptions, including collection period and a discount rate of 7.3%, 4.4% and 7.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2008, a 10% and 20% adverse change in the
collection period and discount rate would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.            At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the outstanding balance of securitized accounts receivable held by the third party conduit totaled $99 million and $135 million,
respectively, of which our subordinated retained interest was $66 million and $63 million, respectively, and the fair value of the servicing liability was less than $1 million at both December 31, 2008 and 2007. The underlying aircraft serve as
collateral for these accounts receivable.            Computer software amortization
expense was $79 million, $75 million and $70 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is expected to approximate $75 million for each of the next five years. Accumulated amortization of computer software was $496 million and $422 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.            Other intangible assets subject
to amortization, which are included in other noncurrent assets, net in the table above, consisted primarily of drawings and intellectual property totaling $71 million, net of $59 million of accumulated amortization, at December 31, 2008 and $78
million, net of $49 million of accumulated amortization, at December 31, 2007. Amortization expense for these intangible assets was $19 million, $9 million and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is expected to approximate $20
million for each of the next five years.            Investments, which are included in
Other assets, net, consisted of the following at December 31:         
          In general, we record our share of the
income or loss in our equity method investments as a component of Cost of sales.            In addition, we have entered into certain joint ventures formed specifically to facilitate a teaming arrangement between two contractors for the benefit of the customer, generally the U.S. Government, whereby we receive a subcontract from
the joint venture in the joint venture s capacity as prime contractor. Accordingly, we record the work we perform for the joint venture as an operating activity.            In 2001, we formed a joint venture, TRS, which we account for using the equity method. TRS is a system of systems integrator and provides
fully customized solutions through the integration of command and control centers, radars and communication networks. TRS has two major operating subsidiaries, one of which, TRS LLC, we control and consolidate, and the other one, Thales-Raytheon
Systems Company S.A.S. (TRS SAS), which we account for using the equity method through our investment in TRS. The minority interest on TRS LLC is reflected as a component of Cost of sales. Amounts included in Cost of sales were $48 million, $53
million and $46 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Of the $227 million investment in TRS, $164 million represents undistributed earnings at December 31, 2008.            TRS LLC formed a joint venture with TRS SAS called Air Command Systems International (ACSI), for which TRS LLC performs work. As of
December 31, 2008, TRS LLC had $53 million of receivables due from ACSI.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Note 8: Financial Instruments       We record foreign exchange forward contracts entered into as cash flow hedges at their fair value. Unrealized gains of $81 million were included in non-current assets and unrealized losses of $107 million were included in current
liabilities. For foreign currency forward contracts designated and qualified for hedge accounting, the offset was included in Other comprehensive loss, net of tax, of which approximately $19 million of net unrealized losses are expected to be
reclassified to earnings over the next twelve months as the underlying transactions mature. Gains and losses resulting from these cash flow hedges offset the foreign exchange gains and losses on the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. The
maturity dates of the forward exchange contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 extend through 2020. Certain immaterial contracts were not designated as effective hedges and therefore were included in Cost of sales. The amount charged to
expense related to these contracts was approximately $1 million in 2008 and less than $1 million in 2007 and 2006.            We enter into interest rate swaps, as described in Note 10: Notes Payable and Long-term Debt. These interest rate swaps were designated as fair value hedges. There was no
hedge ineffectiveness in 2008, 2007 and 2006.            Major currencies and the
approximate amounts associated with foreign contracts consisted of the following at December 31:         
          Buy amounts represent the
U.S. Dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase foreign currencies and sell amounts represent the U.S. Dollar equivalent of commitments to sell foreign currencies. Foreign exchange contracts that do not involve U.S. Dollars have been
converted to U.S. Dollars for disclosure purposes.            Foreign currency forward
contracts, used to fix the dollar value of specific commitments and payments to international vendors and the value of foreign currency denominated receipts, have maturities at various dates through 2020 as follows: $867 million in 2009, $227
million in 2010, $99 million in 2011, $60 million in 2012 and $108 million thereafter.            Our interest rate swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts contain off-set, or netting provisions, to mitigate credit risk in the event of counterparty default, including payment default and cross default. At December 31, 2008,
these netting provisions effectively reduced our net exposure to approximately $50 million for our interest rate swap agreements and $20 million for our foreign exchange contracts. Our net exposure is spread across several counterparties and no
individual counterparty represented more than 20% of the net exposure. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, our interest rate swap agreements were unwound.             Note 9: Fair Value Measurement       The estimated fair value of certain financial
instruments, including cash, cash equivalents and short-term debt approximates the carrying value due to their short maturities and varying interest rates. The estimated fair value of notes receivable approximates the carrying value based
principally on the underlying interest rates and terms, maturities, collateral and credit status of the receivables. The estimated fair value of Long-term debt of approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and $2.4 billion at
December 31, 2007 was based on quoted market prices.            In 2008, we adopted
SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), for our financial assets and liabilities. Our adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not impact our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In accordance with FASB Staff
Position No. FAS 157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 (FSP FAS 157-2), we elected to defer until  
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 January 1, 2009 the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities not recognized or disclosed at fair value in
the financial statements on a recurring basis. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for those assets and liabilities within the scope of FSP FAS 157-2 to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. We did not have any nonfinancial assets or nonfinancial liabilities that would be recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008.            SFAS No. 157 provides a framework for measuring fair value and requires expanded disclosures regarding fair value measurements. SFAS
No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received for an asset or the exit price that would be paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date. SFAS No. 157 also establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs, where available. The following summarizes the three levels of inputs required by SFAS No. 157, as well
as the assets and liabilities that we value using those levels of inputs.         

Level 1:    
      
  Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Our Level 1 assets are investments in marketable securities held in Rabbi Trusts that we use to pay benefits under certain
of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. Our Level 1 liabilities include our obligations to pay certain non-qualified deferred compensation plan benefits. Under these non-qualified deferred compensation plans, participants designate
investment options (primarily mutual funds) to serve as the basis for measurement of the notional value of their accounts. We also include foreign exchange forward contracts that we trade in an active exchange market in our Level 1 assets and
liabilities.   

Level 2:    
      
  Observable inputs, other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or we
corroborate by observable market data for substantially the full term of the related assets or liabilities. Our Level 2 assets are interest rate swaps whose fair value we determine using a pricing model predicated upon observable market
inputs.   

Level 3:    
      
  Unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Our Level 3 asset relates to our subordinated retained
interest in general aviation finance receivables (Subordinated Retained Interest) that we sold in previous years. We estimated the fair value for this asset based on the present value of the future expected cash flows using certain unobservable
inputs, including the collection periods for the underlying receivables and a credit adjusted rate of 4.4% at December 31, 2008 and 7.0% at December 31, 2007. These unobservable inputs reflect our suppositions about the assumptions market
participants would use in pricing this asset.   
          The following table sets forth the
financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2008 that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis by level within the fair value hierarchy. As required by SFAS No. 157, we classify assets and liabilities measured at fair value
in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to their fair value measurement.         

(1)  
  Investments in marketable securities held in Rabbi Trusts associated with certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans, which we include in Other assets, net.

(2)  
  Obligations to pay benefits under certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans, which we include in Accrued retiree benefits and other long-term liabilities.
          
   79   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Activity of our Subordinated Retained Interest that we reflect in discontinued operations was as follows:   

(In millions)   

Balance at January 1, 2008    
      
  $  
  63  

Total gains (realized/unrealized)    

Included in (Loss) income from discontinued operations    

4   

Included in Other comprehensive income (loss)     

(1   
   )    
 
   Balance at December 31, 2008   
      
   $   
   66   
        
           Note 10: Notes Payable and Long-term Debt
      Notes payable and Long-term debt consisted of the following at December 31:         
          The notes and debentures are
redeemable by the Company at any time at redemption prices based on U.S. Treasury rates.            In 2007, we exercised our call rights and repurchased Long-term debt with a par value of $1,039 million at a loss of $59 million pretax, which is included in Other expense (income), net.            We enter into various interest rate swaps that correspond to a portion of our fixed-rate debt
in order to effectively hedge interest rate risk. The $575 million notional value of the interest rate swaps that remained outstanding at December 31, 2008 effectively converted $250 million of the 4.85% Notes due 2011 and $325 million of the
5.375% Notes due 2013 to variable-rate debt based on six-month LIBOR.            The
adjustments to the principal amounts of Long-term debt are reflected as follows at December 31:         
          The
aggregate amounts of principal payments due on Long-term debt for the next five years are:         
       
   80   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   We have a $2.2 billion bank revolving credit facility under which we can draw on lines of credit, issue letters of
credit and backstop commercial paper. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 40 basis points (based on Raytheon s credit rating at December 31, 2008). The credit facility is comprised of commitments from
approximately thirty separate highly rated lenders, each committing no more than 10% of the entire facility. The credit facility matures in March 2010 and we intend to renew prior to maturity. The terms of the renewed facility, including the amount
of the facility, maturity, pricing and covenants, will depend on market conditions at the time of renewal. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility. However, we had
approximately $40 million and $60 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which effectively reduced our borrowing capacity under the credit facility by that same amount at each of the respective
dates.            Under our credit facility, we must comply with certain covenants,
including a ratio of total debt to total capitalization of no more than 50% and a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to consolidated net interest expense, for any period of four consecutive
fiscal quarters, of no less than 3.0 to 1.0. We were in compliance with the covenants during 2008 and 2007.            Certain of our foreign subsidiaries maintain revolving bank lines of credit to provide them with a limited amount of short-term liquidity. In 2005, Raytheon United Kingdom Limited, a U.K. subsidiary, entered into a
three year, $150 million committed multicurrency revolving credit facility that expired on December 15, 2008 and was not renewed. There were no borrowings under the facility at December 31, 2007. In addition, other uncommitted bank lines
totaled approximately $10 million at December 31, 2008 and $15 million at December 31, 2007. There were no amounts outstanding under these lines of credit at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Compensating balance arrangements are not
material.            Total cash paid for interest on notes payable and long-term debt was
$142 million, $232 million and $273 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.             Equity Security Units  In 2001, we issued 17,250,000, 8.25%, $50 par value equity security units. Each equity security unit consisted of a contract to purchase shares of our common stock on May 15, 2004 and a mandatorily
redeemable equity security with a stated liquidation amount of $50 due on May 15, 2006. The mandatorily redeemable equity security represented preferred stock of RC Trust I (RCTI), a subsidiary of the Company that initially issued this
preferred stock to the Company in exchange for a subordinated note. The subordinated notes had the same terms as the mandatorily redeemable equity security and represented an undivided interest in the assets of RCTI whose assets consisted solely of
subordinated notes issued by the Company.            In 2004, in accordance with the
terms of the equity security units, we issued 27.0 million shares of common stock and received proceeds of $863 million. In 2004, subordinated notes with a par value of $481 million were repurchased at a loss of $32 million pretax, which was
included in Other expense (income), net. In 2006, $408 million of subordinated notes payable matured, which consisted of a payment of $382 million and a reduction in our investment in RCTI of $26 million. The contract required a quarterly
distribution, which was recorded as a reduction to Additional paid-in capital, of 1.25% per year of the stated amount of $50 per purchase contract. The subordinated notes paid a quarterly distribution, which was included in interest expense, of
7.0% per year.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Note 11: Commitments and Contingencies       At December 31, 2008, we had commitments under long-term leases requiring annual rentals on a net lease basis as follows:         
          Rent expense in 2008, 2007 and 2006
was $285 million, $276 million and $264 million, respectively. In the normal course of business, we lease equipment, office buildings and other facilities under leases that include standard escalation clauses for adjusting rent payments to reflect
changes in price indices, as well as renewal options.            At December 31,
2008, we had commitments under agreements to outsource a significant portion of our information technology function requiring minimum annual payments as follows:         
          We expect to enter into a new
agreement to replace one of our existing information technology outsourcing agreements when it expires in 2009, which represents a substantial portion of the 2009 payment above. Terms for a new arrangement are currently being evaluated and are not
included in the table above.            Insurance is purchased from third parties to
cover aggregate liability exposure up to $1.5 billion. The aircraft product liability reserve, which was not part of our sale of Raytheon Aircraft, was $8 million and $16 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Prior to the sale of
Raytheon Aircraft, we self-insured for losses and expenses for aircraft product liability up to a maximum of $10 million per occurrence and $50 million annually, and insurance was purchased from third parties to cover excess aggregate liability
exposure from $50 million to $1.25 billion as well as the excess liability over $10 million per occurrence.            We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to remediation of various environmental sites. Our estimate of total environmental remediation costs is $157 million at December 31, 2008.
Discounted at a weighted-average risk-free rate of 5.7%, we estimate the liability to be $105 million before U.S. Government recovery and had this amount accrued at December 31, 2008. A portion of these costs are eligible for future recovery
through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. We consider such recovery probable based on government contracting regulations and our long history of receiving reimbursement for such costs. Accordingly, we recorded $69
million in Contracts in process through December 31, 2008 for the estimated future recovery of these costs from the U.S. Government. We also lease certain government-owned properties and are generally not liable for environmental remediation at
these sites; as a result, we generally do not reflect the provision for these costs in our consolidated financial statements. Due to the complexity of environmental laws and regulations, the varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup
methods and technologies, the uncertainty of insurance coverage and the unresolved extent of our responsibility, it is difficult to determine the ultimate outcome of these matters; however, we do not expect any additional liability to have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.        
   82   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Environmental remediation costs expected to be incurred are:         
          We issue guarantees and banks and
surety companies issue, on our behalf, letters of credit and surety bonds to meet various bid, performance, warranty, retention and advance payment obligations of us or our affiliates. Approximately $281 million, $1,012 million and $111 million of
these guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds, for which there were stated values, were outstanding at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $261 million, $910 million and $104 million were outstanding at December 31, 2007,
respectively. These instruments expire on various dates through 2015. Additional guarantees of project performance for which there is no stated value also remain outstanding.            Included in guarantees and letters of credit described above were $59 million and $180 million at December 31, 2008, respectively and
$39 million and $193 million at December 31, 2007, respectively, related to our joint venture in TRS.            We provide these guarantees and letters of credit to TRS and other affiliates to assist these entities in obtaining financing on more favorable terms, making bids on contracts and performing their contractual
obligations. While we expect these entities to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations, their failure to do so may result in a future obligation to us. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had an estimated
liability of $2 million and $3 million, respectively, related to these guarantees and letters of credit. We evaluate the risk of TRS and other affiliates failing to satisfy their loans, project performance and other contractual obligations described
above periodically. At December 31, 2008 we believe the risk that TRS and other affiliates will not be able to perform or meet their obligations is minimal for the foreseeable future based on their current financial condition. All obligations
were current at December 31, 2008.            Also included in guarantees and
letters of credit described above were $86 million and $6 million at December 31, 2008, respectively, and $85 million and $21 million at December 31, 2007, respectively, related to discontinued operations.            Our residual turbo-prop commuter aircraft portfolio has exposure to outstanding financing
arrangements with the aircraft serving as collateral. We have sold and leased commuter aircraft globally to thinly capitalized companies whose financial condition could be significantly affected by a number of factors, including rising fuel and
other costs, industry consolidation, declining commercial aviation market conditions and the U.S. Government budget for the Essential Air Service program. Based on recent economic trends, including tightening credit markets and volatile fuel costs,
these companies may increasingly experience difficulties meeting their financial commitments. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, our exposure on commuter aircraft assets held as inventory, collateral on notes or as leased assets,
was approximately $170 million relating to 127 aircraft and approximately $250 million relating to 156 aircraft, respectively. The carrying value of our commuter aircraft portfolio assumes an orderly disposition of these assets, consistent with our
historical experience and strategy. If we were to dispose of these assets in an other than orderly manner or sell the portfolio in its entirety, the value realized would likely be less than the carrying value.            In 1997, we provided a first loss guarantee of $133 million on $1.3 billion of U.S.
Export-Import Bank loans (maturing in 2015) to the Brazilian Government related to the System for the Vigilance of the Amazon (SIVAM) program being performed by Network Centric Systems. Loan repayments by the Brazilian Government were current at
December 31, 2008.            Government contractors are subject to many levels of
audit and investigation. Agencies that oversee contract performance include: the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Inspector General of the Department of Defense and other  
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 departments and agencies, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. The Department of Justice, from time
to time, has convened grand juries to investigate possible irregularities by us. We also provide products and services to customers outside of the U.S. and those sales are subject to local government laws, regulations and procurement policies and
practices. Our compliance with such local government regulation or any applicable U.S. Government regulation (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations) may also be investigated or audited. We do not
expect these audits and investigations to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, either individually or in the aggregate.            In 2006, Technical Services recorded a profit adjustment related to certain program costs which may be deemed unrecoverable. Although not
expected to be material, we may incur additional charges as we continue to assess and engage in discussions regarding the matter.            In May 2006, international arbitration hearings commenced against us as the successor to the Hughes Electronics defense business in connection with certain claims brought
in 2004 relating to an alleged 1995 Workshare Agreement. The asserted claims involve breach of contract, intellectual property infringement and other related matters. The arbitrator stayed the liability decision on certain of the claims while the
parties engage in settlement discussions. The ultimate resolution of this matter, however, remains uncertain and difficult to predict. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to these claims and intend to continue to contest them vigorously. An
adverse resolution of this matter could have a material effect on our results of operations.            In addition, various other claims and legal proceedings generally incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened against us. We do not expect any additional liability from these proceedings to
have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.             Note 12: Stockholders  Equity       The changes in shares of our common stock outstanding were as follows:         
          In October 2008, our Board of
Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008 we had not repurchased any shares of our common stock under this program.            In October 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0
billion of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $1,930 million of our common stock had been repurchased and approximately $70 million remained under this program.               
   84   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   In December 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our outstanding common
stock. This program was completed during the fourth quarter of 2007. In March 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the second quarter of 2007.
In November 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $700 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed during the third quarter of 2006.            Treasury stock is accounted for under the cost method. When shares are reissued or retired from treasury stock they are accounted for at
average price. Upon retirement the excess over par value is charged against Additional paid-in capital.            Included in treasury shares at December 31, 2008 are 183,636 shares with a cost basis of $6.6 million which are held in a rabbi trust related to certain of the Company s non-qualified deferred compensation
plans.            We compute basic earnings per share (EPS) by dividing net income by the
weighted-average common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS, which we calculate using the treasury stock method, reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised,
converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that would have shared in our earnings.            The weighted-average shares outstanding for basic and diluted EPS were as follows:         
          Stock options to purchase
10.1 million, 14.0 million and 18.8 million shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, had exercise prices that were less than the average market price of our common stock during the
respective periods. We included these options in our calculation of diluted EPS.            We did not include stock options to purchase 2.4 million, 3.1 million and 6.8 million shares of common stock outstanding in our calculation of diluted EPS at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as the effect
of such options would be anti-dilutive.            Our Board of Directors is authorized
to issue up to 200 million shares of preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share, in multiple series with terms as determined by our Board of Directors. There were no shares of preferred stock outstanding at December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007.            In June 2006, we issued 12.0 million warrants to
purchase our common stock, of which 12.0 million were outstanding at December 31, 2008, in connection with our settlement of a class action lawsuit. These warrants, expiring in 2011, were issued with an exercise price of $37.50 per share
and have been included in the calculation of diluted EPS.            On January 1,
2008, we adopted EITF Issue No. 06-4, Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements, and EITF Issue No. 06-10, Accounting for Collateral Assignment
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements. EITF Nos. 06-4 and 06-10 require us to recognize liabilities for the existing postretirement benefit aspects of our current split-dollar life insurance arrangements. The cumulative effect of adopting EITF
Nos. 06-4 and 06-10 resulted in a $16 million charge to Retained earnings as of January 1, 2008. We did not grant any new or expanded benefits as a result of this change.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Note 13: Stock-based Compensation Plans       We recorded $122 million, $109 million and $104 million of expense related to stock-based compensation in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We recorded $43 million, $38 million and $34 million as a tax benefit
related to stock-based compensation in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2008, there was $164 million of compensation expense related to nonvested awards not yet recognized which is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.6 years.            Shares issued as a result of stock
awards, stock option exercise or conversion of restricted stock unit awards will be funded through treasury stock or the issuance of new shares. Of the 34.3 million shares authorized under the 2001 Stock Plan and the 1997 Nonemployee Directors
Restricted Stock Plan, there were 9.3 million shares available for awards under such plans as of December 31, 2008.             Restricted Stock       The 2001 Stock Plan provides for the award of restricted
stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights. The 1997 Nonemployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan provides for the award of restricted stock to nonemployee directors. Awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock
appreciation rights generally are made by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors (MDCC) and are compensatory in nature. These awards vest over a specified period of time as determined by the MDCC, generally
four years for employee awards and one year for nonemployee directors. Restricted stock awards entitle the recipient to full dividend and voting rights beginning on the date of grant. Non-vested shares are restricted as to disposition and subject to
forfeiture under certain circumstances. The fair value at the date of award of restricted stock is credited to Common stock at par value. The fair value of restricted stock, calculated under the intrinsic value method at the date of award, is
charged to income as compensation expense over the vesting period with a corresponding credit to Additional paid-in capital.            No further grants are allowed under the 2001 Stock Plan or the 1997 Nonemployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan after January 30, 2011 and November 25, 2011,
respectively.            Restricted stock activity was
as follows:         
           Long-Term Performance Plan       In 2004, we established the Long-Term Performance Plan (LTPP), which provides for restricted stock unit awards granted from the 2001 Stock Plan to our senior leadership.
These awards vest at the end of a three-year performance cycle based upon the achievement of specific pre-established levels of performance.               
   86   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The performance goals for the three outstanding performance cycles, which are independent of each other, are based on
the following weighted metrics:         

(1)Return  
  on Invested Capital, as defined     

(2)Cumulative  
  Free Cash Flow, as defined     

(3)Total  
  Shareholder Return, relative to a peer group              The ultimate award, which is determined at the end of each of the three-year performance cycles, can range from zero to 200% of the target award and also includes
dividend equivalents, which are not included in the table below. Compensation expense for the awards is recognized over the performance period based upon the value determined under the intrinsic value method for the CFCF and ROIC portions of the
award and the Monte Carlo simulation method for the TSR portion of the award. Compensation expense for the CFCF and ROIC portions of the awards will be adjusted based upon the expected achievement of those performance goals.            LTPP activity related to the expected units was as follows:         
          The increase related to expected
performance represents increases to awards based on the expected achievement of performance goals.             Stock Options       In 2004, we changed the primary form of our broad-based equity compensation from stock options to restricted
stock. There have been no stock options granted since 2005.         
   87   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   Stock option activity was as follows:       
  
          The total intrinsic value of options
exercised in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $71 million, $145 million and $87 million, respectively.            Stock option activity related to nonvested shares was as follows:         
          The total fair value of options vested
during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $1 million, $4 million and $23 million, respectively.            The following tables summarize information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2008:         
          Shares exercisable at the
corresponding weighted-average exercise price at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, were 12.5 million at $41.16, 17.0 million at $42.50 and 24.9 million at $41.56, respectively.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Note 14: Pension and Other Employee Benefits       We have pension plans covering the majority of our employees, including certain employees in foreign countries (Pension Benefits). Our primary pension obligations relate to our domestic IRS qualified pension plans.
For our domestic qualified pension plans the projected benefit obligation (PBO), accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and asset values for these plans were $15,419 million, $13,784 million, and $10,465 million, respectively, as of December 31,
2008 and $15,130 million, $13,524 million, and $14,113 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007. The PBO represents the present value of pension benefits earned through the year end, with allowance for future salary increases. The ABO is
similar to the PBO, but does not allow for future salary increases. In addition to providing pension benefits, we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to retired employees through other postretirement benefit plans (Other
Benefits). Substantially all of our U.S. employees may become eligible for the Other Benefits.            We adopted SFAS No. 158, Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (SFAS No. 158) as of
December 31, 2006. SFAS No. 158 requires us to recognize the funded status of a postretirement benefit plan (defined benefit pension and other benefits) as an asset or liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Funded status represents
the difference between the projected benefit liability obligation of the plan and the market value of the plan s assets. Previously unrecognized deferred amounts such as demographic or asset gains or losses and the impact of historical plan
changes are included in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income under SFAS No. 158. Changes in these amounts in future years are adjusted as they occur through Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.            The strategic asset allocation of our domestic Pension Benefits and Other Benefits plans is
diversified with an average and moderate level of risk consisting of investments in equity securities (including domestic and international equities and our common stock), debt securities, real estate and other areas such as private equity and cash.
We seek to produce a return on investment over the long-term commensurate with levels of investment risk which are prudent and reasonable given the prevailing capital market expectations. Policy range allocations for our domestic pension plans are
20% to 55% for U. S. equity securities, 15% to 35% for international equity securities, 20% to 40% for debt securities, 2% to 10% for real estate, 0% to 20% for cash and 2% to 7% for other areas. The long-term return on asset (ROA) assumption for
our domestic Pension Benefits and Other Benefits plans for 2009 is 8.75%. The long-term ROA assumption for our domestic Pension Benefits and Other Benefits plans was 8.75% in 2008, 2007 and 2006. To develop the long-term ROA assumption, we perform
periodic studies which consider our asset allocation strategies, our recent and anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes, and the associated risk. In determining the long-term ROA assumption for 2008 and 2007, we compared
our analysis of our actual historical returns to a broader market long-term forecast adjusted for our asset allocation strategy net of an estimated long-term fee rate. In evaluating our asset allocation strategy, we determined that our higher
allocations of debt securities and cash at December 31, 2008, compared to our long-term investment strategy, has been driven by recent market conditions and we intend to return to our long-term investment allocations once normal volatility
levels return to the market. In validating the 2008 long-term ROA assumption, we also reviewed our pension plan asset performance since the inception of SFAS No. 87, which includes the impact of the current downturn in the financial markets.
Our average actual annual rate of return since the inception of SFAS No. 87 has approximated our estimated 8.75% assumed return. Based upon these analyses and our internal investing targets, we determined our long-term ROA assumption for our
domestic pension plans in 2008 was 8.75%, consistent with our 2007 assumption. Our domestic pension plans actual rates of return were (25.55%), 7.67% and 16.58% for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The difference between the actual rate of return
and our long-term ROA assumption is included in deferred losses as discussed below. If we significantly changed our long-term investment allocation or strategy, then our long-term ROA assumption could change as well.            The long-term ROA assumptions for foreign Pension Benefits plans are based on the asset
allocations and the economic environment prevailing in the locations where the Pension Benefits plans reside. Foreign pension assets do not make up a significant portion of the total assets for all of our Pension Benefits plans.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The tables below detail assets by category for our domestic and foreign Pension Benefits and Other Benefits plans.
These assets consist primarily of publicly-traded equity securities and publicly-traded fixed income securities.         
       
          The tables below provide a
reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and related actuarial assumptions of our domestic and foreign Pension Benefits and Other Benefits plans.       
  
          The projected benefit obligation for
our domestic and foreign Pension Benefits plans was $15,866 million and $495 million, respectively at December 31, 2008 and $15,551 million and $737 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007.         
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
   The fair value of plan assets for our domestic and foreign Pension Benefits plans was $10,465 million and $442
million, respectively, at December 31, 2008 and $14,113 million and $572 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007.        

The amounts in Accumulated other
comprehensive (loss) income at December 31, 2008 expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost in 2009 are as follows:         
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          

          The discount rate for our domestic
Pension Benefits was 6.5% at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Our foreign Pension Benefits plan assumptions have been included in the Pension Benefits assumptions in the table above.            The tables below outline the components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) and related actuarial assumptions of our domestic and foreign
Pension Benefits and Other Benefits plans.         
          Net periodic benefit cost also
includes expense from foreign Pension Benefits plans of $20 million in 2008, $27 million in 2007 and $31 million in 2006.         

92   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          

          The effect of a 1% increase or
(decrease) in the assumed health care trend rate for each future year for the aggregate of service cost and interest cost is $1 million or ($1) million, respectively, and for the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation is $16 million or ($14)
million, respectively.            The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan
assets for Pension Benefits plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $15,599 million and $10,089 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008, and $15,045 million and $12,878 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2007.            The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of
plan assets for Pension Benefits plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $13,203 million and $9,387 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008 and $6,304 million and $5,701 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2007. The accumulated benefit obligation for all Pension Benefits plans was $14,630 million and $14,577 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.            We make both discretionary and required contributions to our pension plans. Required
contributions are primarily determined by ERISA rules and are affected by the actual return on plan assets and plan funded status. As discretionary contributions are made, a funding credit is accumulated which can be used to offset future calculated
required contributions. The funding credit for our pension plans was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2008 and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2007. We made discretionary contributions of $660 million, $900 million and $200 million in 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively. We made required contributions of $542 million, $459 million and $420 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We expect to make required contributions of
approximately $1,110 million and $45 million to our pension and postretirement benefit plans, respectively, in 2009. We will continue to periodically evaluate whether to make additional discretionary contributions.            The table below reflects the total Pension Benefits expected to be paid from the plans or
from our assets, including both our share of the benefit cost and the participants  share of the cost, which is funded by participant contributions. Other Benefits payments reflect our portion only.         
          We also maintain additional
contractual pension benefits agreements for our top executive officers. The liability was $29 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007.            We maintain an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP), which includes our 401(k) plan (defined contribution plan), under which covered employees are allowed to contribute
up to a specific percentage of their pay. The Company matches the employee s contribution, up to a maximum of generally between 3% and 4% of the employee s pay, which is invested  
       
   93   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 in the same way as employee contributions. Total expense for the Company match was $238 million, $230 million and $189 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.            Prior to January 1, 2005, we made an annual contribution to
our common stock fund of approximately one-half of one percent of salaries and wages, subject to certain limitations (Company Contributions). Effective January 1, 2005, we discontinued the annual contribution to our common stock fund for most
U.S. salaried and hourly employees. Total expense for the Company Contributions was less than $1 million for 2008 and 2007 and $1 million for 2006 and the number of shares allocated to participant accounts was 600, 9,000 and 18,000 in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. We purchased shares on the open market for the Company Contributions in 2008, 2007 and 2006.            Effective January 1, 2007, all eligible newly-hired or rehired employees participate in a new defined contribution plan in lieu of our existing pension plans,
subject to any applicable collective bargaining agreements. The total expense for the Company contributions to this plan was $25 million and $9 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our current eligible employees will continue to participate in
our existing pension plans without any changes to level of benefits or payment options.            At December 31, 2008, there was $8.6 billion invested in our defined contribution plan. At December 31, 2008, there was $1.5 billion invested in our common stock fund.             Note 15: Income Taxes       The provision for federal and foreign income taxes consisted of the following:         
          The
expense for income taxes differs from the U.S. statutory rate due to the following:         
          We are subject to income taxes in the
U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.            In 2008, 2007 and 2006, domestic
Income from continuing operations before taxes was $2,336 million, $2,115 million and $1,735 million, respectively, and foreign Income from continuing operations before taxes was $162 million, $110 million and $56 million, respectively. Income
reported for federal and foreign tax purposes differs from pretax income  
       
   94   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 due to differences between U.S. Internal Revenue Code (IRC) or foreign tax law requirements and our accounting practices. No provision has been made for
deferred taxes on undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries as these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability on these undistributed earnings is not practicable. Total
federal and foreign tax payments, net of refunds, were $448 million in 2008 compared to $734 million in 2007 and $375 million in 2006.            During 2007, we settled our federal research credit claim for the years 1984 1990 and certain domestic and Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) issues for the years
1989 1997. IRS examinations of our tax returns have been completed through 2002 and IRS examination of our tax returns for 2003 2005 began in March 2007 and continued through 2008. We expect this examination to be completed in 2009. We
have protested to the IRS Appeals Division certain proposed adjustments primarily involving benefits under the FSC and Extraterritorial Income (ETI) exclusion regimes for 1998 2002. Additionally, we are under audit by a number of state tax
authorities. State tax liabilities are routinely adjusted to account for any changes in federal taxable income.            We believe we adequately provide for all tax positions, however, amounts asserted by taxing authorities could be greater than amounts accrued and reflected in our
consolidated balance sheet. Accordingly, we could record additional amounts for federal, foreign and state-related liabilities in the future as we revise estimates or we settle or otherwise resolve the underlying matters.            In 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes (FIN 48), when accounting for our various tax positions, and recognized a $13 million increase in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which we accounted for as a reduction to Retained earnings. The balance of unrecognized tax benefits
at December 31, 2008, exclusive of interest, was $415 million, of which $315 million would affect earnings if recognized. The balance of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007, exclusive of interest, was $342 million, of which $250
million would affect earnings if recognized. We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. As a result, in 2008, we recorded $26 million of gross interest and penalties, $17 million net of the federal tax
benefit, in tax expense. In 2007, we recorded $32 million of gross interest and penalties, $21 million net of the federal tax benefit, in tax expense. At December 31, 2008, and 2007, respectively, we had approximately $96 million and $70
million of interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits, which, net of the federal tax benefit was approximately $63 million and $45 million, respectively. In the ordinary course of business, we may take new tax positions that
could increase or decrease unrecognized tax benefits in future periods.            A
rollforward of our unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:         
          Although the final outcome remains
uncertain, we may reach a settlement with the IRS Appeals division in 2009 to resolve certain protested adjustments related to benefits claimed under the FSC and ETI regimes and certain other tax matters related to the years 1998 2002. As a
result, it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $25 million to $35 million, all of which could affect earnings.            We generally account for our state income tax expense as a deferred contract cost, as we can
generally recover these costs through the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government. We include this deferred contract cost in Contracts in process until allocated to our contracts, which generally occurs upon payment or when
otherwise agreed as  
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
  
 allocable with the U.S. Government. State income taxes allocated to our contracts were $122 million, $81 million and $29 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, and were included in Administrative and selling expenses.            The
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 provides a deduction for income derived from qualifying domestic production activities that is phased in over the 2005 2010 period. The deduction is equal to 3% of qualifying income in 2005 and 2006, 6% in
2007, 2008 and 2009, and 9% thereafter.            In December 2006, the Tax Relief and
Health Care Act of 2006 was enacted. This legislation retroactively reinstated the research tax credit for 2006. As a result, we recorded a discrete benefit of $6 million in the fourth quarter representing the benefit for the full year. The Tax
Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 also extended and modified the research tax credit for 2007.            In October 2008, the Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008 was enacted. This legislation retroactively reinstated the research and development tax credit for 2008. As a result, we recorded a
benefit of approximately $26 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 representing the benefit of the research and development tax credit for the full year.            Deferred income taxes consisted of the following at December 31:         
          Current tax assets of $441 million at
December 31, 2008 relates primarily to federal tax refunds expected to be received in the next year, and $337 million of these refunds were collected in January 2009. The Current tax asset of $98 million at December 31, 2007 was collected
in 2008. The federal tax expense related to discontinued operations was $7 million, $581 million and $68 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $40 million and $5 million, respectively. These federal net
operating loss carryforwards were acquired pursuant to our acquisitions of Oakley Networks, Inc. and Photon Research Associates, Inc. In general, Section 382 of the IRC places annual limitations on the use of certain tax attributes, such as net
operating losses, in existence at the time of an ownership change. The entire balance of our federal net operating losses at December 31, 2008 and 2007 is subject to annual limitations under IRC Section 382. If unused, the net operating
loss carryforwards would begin to expire in 2027. We believe we will be able to utilize all of these carryforwards over the next five to six years.            As of December 31, 2007, we had foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately $30 million and have fully utilized all of our foreign tax credit carryforwards at
December 31, 2008.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Note 16: Business Segment Reporting       Our reportable segments, organized based on capabilities and technologies, are: Integrated Defense Systems, Intelligence and Information Systems, Missile Systems, Network Centric Systems, Space and Airborne Systems and Technical Services.
           Integrated Defense Systems is a global capabilities integrator specializing in
space, air, surface, subsurface and homeland security solutions. IDS leverages its core domain knowledge and key capabilities in sensors, command, control, and communication (C3), effects and mission support to provide best-value solutions for
warfighters and civil authorities.            Intelligence and Information Systems
provides broad capabilities and expertise in signal and image processing, geospatial intelligence air- and space-borne command and control, ground engineering support and weather and environmental management systems, command and control solutions
for air/space platforms, operations, maintenance and information technology identity management, information assurance and homeland security solutions.            Missile Systems develops and supports a broad range of cutting edge weapon systems that include missiles, smart munitions, projectiles, kinetic kill vehicles, space
vehicles and directed energy effectors.            Network Centric Systems develops and
produces mission solutions for networking, command and control, battle space awareness and transportation management. Included in the results of NCS is the equity income from TRS and the minority interest in TRS LLC as discussed in Note 7, Other
Assets, Net.            Space and Airborne Systems designs and develops integrated
systems and solutions for advanced missions including traditional and non-traditional intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, precision engagement, unmanned aerial operations, special forces operations and space.            Technical Services provides technical, scientific and professional services, as well as a
full-spectrum of training services and outsourcing for defense, federal and commercial customers worldwide. It specializes in Mission Support, counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism, range operations, product support, homeland security
solutions and customized engineering services.            Segment net sales and operating
income generally include intersegment sales and profit recorded at cost plus a specified fee, which may differ from what the selling entity would be able to obtain on sales to external customers. Corporate and Eliminations includes corporate
expenses and intersegment sales and profit eliminations. Corporate expenses represent unallocated costs and certain other corporate costs not considered part of management s evaluation of reportable segment operating performance, including the
net costs associated with our residual commuter aircraft portfolio.            Segment
financial results were as follows:         

97   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          

The following table reconciles
Operating income to Income from continuing operations before taxes:         

98   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          

The country of destination was used to
attribute sales to either the United States or outside the United States (including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government of $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively). Sales to major customers in
2008, 2007 and 2006 were: U.S. Government, including foreign military sales, $20,170 million, $18,312 million and $17,016 million, respectively, including U.S. Department of Defense, $19,231 million, $17,205 million and $15,610 million,
respectively.         
       
   99   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)          
    Note 17: Quarterly Operating Results (Unaudited)    

(1)    
    Earnings per share are computed independently for each of the quarters presented; therefore, the sum of the quarterly
earnings per share may not equal the total computed for the year.      

(2  )    
    Number of workdays per our fiscal calendar, which excludes holidays and weekends.            
   100   

Table of Contents  

            ITEM 9. CHANGES IN
AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE             None.               ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
            Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Management has conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness
of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a 15(e) and 15d 15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of December 31, 2008.             Conclusion of Evaluation  Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008 were effective.             Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls  In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any control,
no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Due to the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute
assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.             Evaluation of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting        Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.             Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  The
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is set forth in Part II,
Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.             Changes in Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2008 that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over
financial reporting.            Subsequent to the fourth quarter of 2008, we implemented
new manufacturing planning and control software within the SAS and NCS segments.       
        ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION             None.       
        PART III                ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE        
     Information regarding members of our Board of Directors is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under
the caption  Election of Directors  and is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding our executive officers is contained after Part I of this Form 10-K. Information regarding Section 16(a) compliance is contained in our
definitive proxy statement under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding our Audit Committee and our Audit Committee Financial Expert is contained
in our definitive proxy statement under the caption  The Board of Directors and Board Committees  and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

         We have adopted a code of ethics that
applies to all of our directors, officers, employees and representatives. Information regarding our code of ethics is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Corporate
Governance Code of Ethics and Conflicts of Interest  and is incorporated herein by reference.            No material changes have been made to the procedures by which our stockholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors since we described the procedures in our definitive proxy statement for the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. Information regarding the procedures is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Corporate Governance Director Nomination Process.    
           ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION             This information is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders under the caption  Executive Compensation,  including  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   The Board of Directors and Board Committees Director Compensation,   The Board of Directors and
Board Committees Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and is incorporated herein by reference.               ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS             Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and for directors and
executive officers is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Stock Ownership  and is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding securities authorized for
issuance under our executive compensation plans is contained in Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.               ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE             This information is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and under the caption  Corporate Governance Board Independence  and is incorporated herein by reference.               ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES             This information is contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders under the caption  Independent Auditors: Audit and Non-Audit Fees  and is incorporated herein by reference.               PART IV                ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES          

(a)  
  Financial Statements and Schedules              (1) The following financial statements of Raytheon Company, supplemental information and report of independent registered public
accounting firm are included in this Form 10-K:            Consolidated
Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007            Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   102   

Table of Contents  

         Five Year Statistical
Summary (Unaudited)            Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated
February 25, 2009 on the Company s financial statements filed as a part hereof for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008 is included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The independent registered public accounting firm s consent with respect to this report appears in Exhibit 23 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.            (2) List of financial statement schedules:            All schedules have been omitted because they are not required, not applicable
or the information is otherwise included.         

(b)  
  Exhibits:              The following list of exhibits includes exhibits submitted with this Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those incorporated by reference to other filings.   

3.1  
      
  Raytheon Company Restated Certificate of Incorporation, restated as of April 2, 2002, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-85648, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

3.2  
      
  Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Raytheon Company, amended as of May 5, 2005, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 9, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

3.3  
      
  Raytheon Company Amended and Restated By-Laws, amended as of July 23, 2008, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2008,
is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.1  
      
  Indenture relating to Senior Debt Securities dated as of July 3, 1995 between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee, filed as an exhibit to the former Company s Registration
Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-59241, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.2  
      
  Indenture relating to Subordinated Debt Securities dated as of July 3, 1995 between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee, filed as an exhibit to the former Company s
Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-59241, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.3  
      
  Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 17, 1997 between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.4  
      
  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 9, 2001, between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 10, 2001, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.5  
      
  Form of Senior Debt Securities, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-58474, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.6  
      
  Form of Subordinated Debt Securities, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-58474, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.7  
      
  Certificate of Trust of RC Trust I, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-58474, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.8  
      
  Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of RC Trust I, dated as of May 9, 2001, among Raytheon Company, The Bank of New York as initial Property Trustee, The Bank of New York
(Delaware) as initial Delaware Trustee, and the Regular Trustee including the Form of Preferred Security Attached as Exhibit A, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 10, 2001, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   
       
   103   

Table of Contents  

4.9  
      
  Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated April 1, 2005, between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York appointing Successor Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar in
connection with certain securities originally authorized and issued under the Indenture dated as of July 3, 1995, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2005, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

4.10  
      
  Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated April 1, 2005, between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York appointing Successor Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar in
connection with the 8.25% Equity Security Units originally authorized and issued under the Indenture dated as of July 3, 1995 and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 9, 2001, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 27, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

4.11  
      
  Warrant Agreement dated May 10, 2006 between Raytheon Company and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, as warrant agent, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed June 9, 2006, is hereby incorporated by reference.   
          No other instruments defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt are filed since the total amount of securities authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Company on a consolidated basis. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of such
instruments to the SEC upon request.   

10.1  
      
  Raytheon Company 1991 Stock Plan, as amended on September 21, 2005, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2005,
is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.2  
      
  Raytheon Company 1995 Stock Option Plan, as amended on September 21, 2005, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2005, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.3  
      
  Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, as amended on September 21, 2005, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 25, 2005, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.4  
      
  Plan for Granting Stock Options in Substitution for Stock Options Granted by Texas Instruments Incorporated, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, File
No. 333-45629, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.5  
      
  Plan for Granting Stock Options in Substitution for Stock Options Granted by Hughes Electronics Corporation, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, File
No. 333-45629, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.6  
      
  Raytheon Company 1997 Nonemployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan, as amended on September 21, 2005, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 25, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.7  
      
  Raytheon Company Deferral Plan for Directors, filed as an exhibit to the former Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-22969, is hereby incorporated by reference.

10.8  
      
  Raytheon Company Excess Savings Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-56117, as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1, File No.
333-52536, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.9  
      
  Raytheon Company Excess Pension Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended on December 31, 2004, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.10  
      
  Raytheon Company Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.11  
      
  Raytheon Company Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009.*   
       
   104   

Table of Contents  

10.12  
      
  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement under the Raytheon Company 1995 Stock Option Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 26, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.13  
      
  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under the Raytheon Company 1995 Stock Option Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 26, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.14  
      
  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement under the Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
26, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.15  
      
  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement under the Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
26, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.16  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
26, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.17  
      
  Form of Performance Share Award Agreement under the Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
26, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.18  
      
  Form of 2005 Performance Share Award Agreement under the Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
27, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.19  
      
  Form of 2005 Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for non-U.S. employees under the Raytheon Company 2001 Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 26, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.20  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 1997 Nonemployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2005, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.21  
      
  Form of Change in Control Severance Agreement between the Company and certain executive officers (providing for benefits in the event of a qualified termination upon a change in control of
three times base salary and bonus), filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.22  
      
  Form of Change in Control Severance Agreement between the Company and certain executive officers (providing for benefits in the event of a qualified termination upon a change in control of
two times base salary and bonus), filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.23  
      
  Letter Agreement between Raytheon Company and William H. Swanson, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 24, 2003, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.24  
      
  Transition Agreement between Raytheon Company and Daniel P. Burnham, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 24, 2003, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.25  
      
  Employment Agreement between Raytheon Company and Edward S. Pliner, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.26  
      
  Employment Agreement between Raytheon Company and Keith J. Peden, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.27  
      
  Transition Agreement between Raytheon Company and Francis M. Marchilena dated September 3, 2002, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 29, 2002, is hereby incorporated by reference.   
       
   105   

Table of Contents  

10.28  
      
  Amendment dated October 22, 2003 to the Transition Agreement between Raytheon Company and Francis M. Marchilena dated September 3, 2002, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2003, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.29  
      
  Employment Agreement between Raytheon Company and Thomas M. Culligan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.30  
      
  Employment Agreement between Raytheon Company and Jay B. Stephens, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.31  
      
  Amendment dated November 18, 2002 to Employment Agreement between Raytheon Company and Jay B. Stephens, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.32  
      
  Amendment to Employment Agreement between Raytheon Company and Jay B. Stephens, filed as an exhibit to Raytheon s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2003,
is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.33  
      
  Letter Agreement dated March 4, 2005 between Raytheon Company and Pamela A. Wickham, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 25, 2005, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.34  
      
  Transition Agreement dated December 14, 2005 between Raytheon Company and Gregory S. Shelton, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 20, 2005, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.35  
      
  Summary of Executive Severance and Change in Control Policy, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated
by reference.   

10.36  
      
  Summary of Executive Perquisites Policy, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.37  
      
  Summary of Key Employee Relocation Arrangement, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 25, 2005, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.38  
      
  Summary of Non-Employee Director Compensation, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 1, 2005, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.39  
      
  Summary of 2006 Results-Based Incentive Program, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 20, 2005, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.40  
      
  $2.2 Billion Five-Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility dated as of March 24, 2005 among Raytheon Company, as the Borrower, the lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A.,
as Syndication Agent, Citicorp USA, Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston, as Documentation Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 29, 2005, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.41  
      
  Guarantee Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2001, between Raytheon Company and The Bank of New York as initial Guarantee Trustee, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form
8-K filed May 10, 2001, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.42  
      
  Settlement Agreement between Raytheon Company, Raytheon Engineers and Constructors International, Inc. and Washington Group International, Inc. dated January 23, 2002, filed as an exhibit to
the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.43  
      
  Fifth Amended and Restated Purchase and Sale Agreement between General Aviation Receivables Corporation, Raytheon Aircraft Receivables Corporation, Raytheon Aircraft Credit Corporation,
Receivables Capital Corporation and Bank of America, N.A., dated September 1, 2003, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, is hereby incorporated by reference.   
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

10.44  
      
  Letter Agreement dated February 21, 2006 between Raytheon Company and David C. Wajsgras, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 28, 2006, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.45  
      
  Letter Agreement dated March 2, 2006 between Raytheon Company and Taylor W. Lawrence, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 6, 2006, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.46  
      
  Summary of the Long-Term Performance Plan dated January 24, 2006, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2006, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.47  
      
  Form of Raytheon Company Performance Share Award Agreement under the Long-Term Performance Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2006, is
hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.48  
      
  Agreement dated August 1, 2006 between Raytheon Company and James E. Schuster, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 1, 2006, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

10.49  
      
  Summary of the Raytheon Company Results-Based Incentive Program, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 14, 2006, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

10.50  
      
  Summary of the Raytheon Company Long-Term Performance Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 14, 2006, is hereby incorporated by reference.

10.51  
      
  Stock Purchase Agreement by and among, Hawker Beechcraft Corporation, Greenbulb Limited, Raytheon Company, Raytheon Aircraft Holdings, Inc. and Raytheon Aircraft Services Limited dated as of
December 20, 2006, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 22, 2006, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.52  
      
  Form of Performance Share Award with respect to the Long-Term Performance Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 25, 2007,
is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.53  
      
  Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of its directors and executive officers, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 23, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

10.54  
      
  Form of Stock Award Agreement under the 1997 Nonemployee Directors Restricted Stock Plan, filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
29, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

12  
      
  Statement regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges for the year ended December 31, 2008.*   

21  
      
  Subsidiaries of Raytheon Company.*   

23  
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.*   

31.1  
      
  Certification of William H. Swanson pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*   

31.2  
      
  Certification of David C. Wajsgras pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.*   

32.1  
      
  Certificate of William H. Swanson pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.**   

32.2  
      
  Certificate of David C. Wajsgras pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.**   
          (Exhibits marked with an asterisk
(*) are filed electronically herewith.)            (Exhibits marked with two
asterisks (**) are deemed to be furnished and not filed.)         
   107   

Table of Contents  

            SIGNATURES    
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.          

R AYTHEON  C OMPANY     

/s/    Michael J. Wood            
 
     Michael J. Wood       Vice President and Chief       Accounting Officer     
 
         Dated: February 25, 2009
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.         

SIGNATURES    
      
    TITLE    
     
    DATE     

/s/    William H. Swanson                William H. Swanson    
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    David C. Wajsgras                David C. Wajsgras    
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    Michael J. Wood                Michael J. Wood    
      
  Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    Vernon E. Clark                Vernon E. Clark    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    John M. Deutch                John M. Deutch    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    Frederic M. Poses                Frederic M. Poses    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    Michael C. Ruettgers                Michael C. Ruettgers    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    Ronald L. Skates                Ronald L. Skates    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    William R. Spivey                William R. Spivey    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   

/s/    Linda G. Stuntz                Linda G. Stuntz    
      
  Director  
     
  February 25, 2009   
       
   108   

<EX-10.11>
 2
 dex1011.htm
 RAYTHEON COMPANY DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Raytheon Company Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.11        RAYTHEON DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN       (As amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009)
      ARTICLE I         General
       1.1        Purpose       . The Raytheon Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is
intended to be an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan shall cover those Eligible Employees and Eligible Directors designated by the Plan Administrator.
The Plan is designed to encourage persons of outstanding ability to continue to serve as employees or directors by providing a mechanism for irrevocably deferring to a future year the receipt of certain compensation and fees. The Plan is not a joint
venture among the Employers.      1.2    Amendment and Restatement   .     This is an amendment and restatement of the
Plan effective January 1, 2009, unless otherwise indicated herein.      1.3    Background   .     The Plan is the
successor to the following plans (or the designated portions thereof), which were merged into the Plan effective January 1, 2000:      Raytheon Voluntary Compensation Deferment Plan      TI Deferred Compensation Plan      Hughes Missile Systems Company 1993 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan      Standard Missile Deferred Compensation Plan      MESC Deferred Compensation Plan      Raytheon Company Deferral Plan for Directors (only the portion of the plan that included the Deferred Fees and Retainer     Account;
the portion of the plan that included the Deferred Pension Account remains a separate plan)      Such plans (or the designated portions
thereof) shall be referred to herein as the  Prior Plans.       Exhibit A to this Plan and Articles VIII, IX, and XI of the main body
of the Plan govern amounts deferred under the Plan through December 31, 2004 (the  Pre-2005 Plan ), within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and Department of Treasury Regulations and other guidance issued
by the Department of Treasury and Internal Revenue Service pursuant to Section 409A (collectively referred to as  Section 409A ). The main body of this Plan governs amounts deferred after December 31, 2004 (the  Post-2004
Plan ).      All amounts deferred after December 31, 2004, shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A for avoiding
taxation under Section 409A. In the event of any inconsistency between the Post-2004 Plan and the requirements for avoiding taxation under Section 409A, the requirements for avoiding taxation under Section 409A shall govern. If any
provision of the Post-2004 Plan is inconsistent with such requirements of Section 409A, that provision shall be disregarded, and the Plan shall be construed and administered in a manner that conforms to those requirements and is as close as is
feasible to the disregarded provision. Between January 1, 2005, and December 31, 2008, the Post-2004 Plan operated in accordance with good faith  

compliance with the requirements of Section 409A for avoiding taxation under Section 409A. Effective January 1, 2009, the Post-2004
Plan s compliance with those requirements shall conform to the specific provisions of the remainder of this Post-2004 Plan and any policies adopted by the Company for compliance with the requirements of Section 409A for avoiding taxation
under Section 409A.      Except where otherwise expressly provided, all terms used within either the main body of the Plan or in Exhibit A
refer only to amounts deferred under the main body of the Plan or Exhibit A, respectively, and are not applicable to amounts deferred under the other portion of the Plan (the main body or Exhibit A, respectively, as the case may be).      1.4    Applicability   .     Deferrals under this Plan may only be made by Eligible Employees employed or Eligible Directors
serving on or after the Effective Date.       ARTICLE II         Definitions        2.1    Affiliate   .          (a) A trade or business that, together with the Company, is a member of (i) a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of
Code section 414(b); (ii) a group of trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control as defined in Code section 414(c), or (iii) an affiliated service group as defined in Code section 414(m), or that is an entity
otherwise required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to Code section 414(o); or      (b) If the Plan Administrator so
authorizes, an entity in which the Company owns at least an 80% equity or profits interest.      2.2    Annual
Retainer         .     The retainer then in effect for service on the Board of Directors of the Company, exclusive of Board Fees and reimbursement for travel and other expenses.      2.3    Beneficiary   .     A person or persons designated by a Participant on forms provided by the Plan Administrator to
receive Benefits hereunder in the event of the death of the Participant. Beneficiaries may be changed at any time and without the consent of any prior Beneficiaries. In the case of a Participant s failure to designate a Beneficiary or the death
of a Beneficiary without a designated successor, Benefits shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, and if none, to his or her surviving issue, per stirpes, if any, and, if none, to his or her estate. If more than one person
is designated as a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant, each person shall receive a pro rata share of any Benefits payable unless otherwise designated on the beneficiary designation.      2.4    Benefits   .     The amounts payable under this Plan, if any, in accordance with Article IV.         
   2   

2.5    Board Fees   .     The amount of a Director Participant s fees for
attending meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company and/or committees of such board and/or for chairing any such meetings and/or serving as Lead Director.      2.6    Code   . The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      2.7
   Committee   .     The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.      2.8    Company   .     Raytheon Company or any successor thereto by merger, consolidation or reorganization whose board of directors adopts this Plan.      2.9    Compensation   .     In the case of Employee Participants, compensation, as defined in RAYSIP (without regard to the
limits of Code Section 401(a)(17) applicable to RAYSIP and without regard to any changes in RAYSIP s definition of compensation during the Plan Year, except to the extent that such changes in definition may be given effect under this Plan
without causing taxation under Section 409A), earned within the Plan Year. In the case of Director Participants, the sum of the Annual Retainer and Board Fees earned within the Plan Year for service on the Board of Directors of the Company.
     2.10    Deferral Account   .     The bookkeeping account established by the Plan Administrator on behalf of a
Participant to reflect the Participant s Deferrals, Employer Credits, and all subsequent earnings and losses thereon. A Participant s Deferral Account shall include amounts transferred from Prior Plans. The Plan Administrator may establish
categories of Deferral Accounts to reflect different sources of Deferrals.      2.11    Deferral Agreement   .     A
written, electronic or telephonic agreement approved by the Plan Administrator and executed by an Eligible Employee or Eligible Director authorizing (i) Deferrals for the Plan Year and (ii) in the case of a Participant s initial
Deferrals under the Plan, the form in which Benefits resulting from all Deferrals and deemed earnings thereon are distributed. The deferral and distribution designations can be made in separate agreements and, if so, shall be referred to
collectively as the Deferral Agreement. In the case of Eligible Employees, Deferral Agreements include a Salary Deferral Agreement and an RBI Deferral Agreement.      2.12    Deferrals   .     Compensation which is deferred by a Participant pursuant to a Deferral Agreement and Compensation with respect to which Employer Credits are made to a
Participant s Deferral Account. In addition, all deferrals made under the Prior Plans shall be treated as Deferrals hereunder.      2.13
   Director Participant   .     An Eligible Director who is a Participant in this Plan.      2.14    Effective
Date   .     The Plan was first effective as of November 1, 1999, but no Compensation earned prior to January 1, 2000, was deferred hereunder, but accounts from Prior Plans were transferred hereto. The main body of the
Plan is effective as of January 1, 2009, for amounts deferred after December 31, 2004, within the meaning of Section 409A. Exhibit A to the Plan is effective for amounts deferred before January 1, 2005, within the meaning of
Section 409A.         
   3   

2.15    Eligible Director   .     A member of the Board of Directors of the
Company who is selected by the Plan Administrator to participate in the Plan.      2.16    Eligible Employee   .    
An employee of an Employer who is an exempt, salaried, management or highly compensated employee within the meaning of ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) or 401(a)(1) and who is selected by the Plan Administrator to participate in the Plan.
     2.17    Employee Participant   .     An Eligible Employee who is a Participant in this Plan.      2.18    Employer   .     The Company and any Affiliate or division of the Company or any Affiliate which adopts this Plan with
the consent of the Company. For purposes of this Plan only, the Company shall be considered the  Employer  of any Director Participant.      2.19    Employer Credits   .     Matching Credits and RISP Credits.      2.20
   ERISA   .     The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.      2.21    Matching
Credits   .     An amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the first four percent (4%) of the amount by which the Participant s Compensation is reduced for the Plan Year pursuant to the Participant s
Salary Deferral Agreement.      2.22    Participant   . Any Eligible Employee or Eligible Director who is selected by the Plan
Administrator to participate in the Plan and, where required as a condition of a credit to a Deferral Account, enters into a Deferral Agreement; and any other person who was a participant in a Prior Plan and whose account balances under a Prior Plan
were transferred to this Plan. A Participant shall remain a Participant until all amounts due to the Participant under the Plan have been distributed to the Participant or the Participant s Beneficiary.      2.23    Plan Administrator   . The person or entity appointed by a duly authorized officer of Raytheon Company (or any successor entity
that continues the Plan) to serve as Plan Administrator.      2.24    Plan Year   . Each twelve (12) month period beginning
January 1.      2.25    RAYSIP   .     The Raytheon Savings and Investment Plan.      2.26    RBI Award   . Bonuses earned by an Employee Participant under the Employer s Results Based Incentive Plan.      2.27    RBI Deferral Agreement         .     A Deferral Agreement by which an Eligible Employee authorizes
deferral of part of his or her RBI Award. An RBI Deferral Agreement does not include a Salary Deferral Agreement.      2.28
   Recordkeeper   . The person or entity appointed by the Plan Administrator to establish and maintain records for the Plan.      2.29    RISP       .   The Retirement Income Savings Program, as defined in RAYSIP.         
   4   

2.30    RISP Credits   .     The amounts by which (a) the contributions
that would be made to the RISP account of a participant in RAYSIP but for the fact that the Participant s Compensation exceeds the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit on compensation that may be taken into account by RAYSIP exceeds (b) the
contributions actually made to RAYSIP on Compensation that does not exceed the Code Section 401(a)(17) limit.      2.31
   Salary         .     Compensation earned by an Employee Participant other than any RBI Award.      2.32    Salary Deferral Agreement         .     A Deferral Agreement by which an Eligible Employee authorizes deferral of part of his or her Compensation in excess of the Code Section 401(a)(17)
limit on compensation that may be taken into account by RAYSIP. A Salary Deferral Agreement does not include an RBI Deferral Agreement.      2.33    Separation from Service         .     Separation from service, as defined in Section 409A, with the Employer or any affiliate within the Employer s controlled group (as defined in
Sections 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code by using 80% each place it is relevant in those definitions); provided that a reasonably anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to less than 50% of the average level of bona fide
services provided in the immediately preceding twelve (12) months shall give rise to the rebuttable presumption of separation from service in Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(h)(ii).      2.34    Trust   . The trust or trusts described in Section 4.4(c).      2.35    Trustee   . The trustee of the Trust.       ARTICLE III         Participation        3.1    Effect of the Prior Plans   . As of the Effective Date, all participants in the Prior Plans became Participants under this Plan,
and all amounts deferred under the Prior Plans and any deemed earnings thereon became subject to the terms of this Plan.      3.2
   Commencement of Participation   .      (a) Each Eligible Employee and Eligible Director shall become a Participant hereunder
when the Plan Administrator accepts his or her Deferral Agreement, except that an Eligible Employee who is eligible for RISP Credits shall become a Participant hereunder when the Plan Administrator selects the person to participate in the Plan.
     (b) Except as provided in subsection (c) below or as otherwise provided by the Plan Administrator, Deferral Agreements must be
received by the Plan Administrator no later than November 30 of the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year in which the Compensation to which the Deferral Agreement relates will be earned.      (c) Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Plan Administrator may accept Deferral Agreements with respect to the current Plan Year, but only if such
Deferral Agreement is provided  
       
   5   

to the Plan Administrator within the first thirty (30) days of the date that an individual first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan. For
purposes of this Section 3.2(c), a person who was previously eligible to participate in the Plan will be treated as first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan (as of the date on which the person would again be eligible to enter into a
Deferral Agreement but for previous participation in the Plan) if (i) the person has been paid all benefits due under the Plan and, on the date before the last payment, was not eligible to participate in the Plan for periods after the last
payment; or (ii) the person was not eligible to participate in the Plan (other than crediting of deemed investment earnings) at any time during the 24-month period ending on the date on which the person would again be eligible to enter into a
Deferral Agreement but for previous participation in the Plan. For purposes of this Section 3.2(c), participation in any other plan that is aggregated with the Plan for purposes of the rules under Section 409A for determining the year of
initial eligibility for participation in the Plan shall be treated as participation in the Plan. A Deferral Agreement with respect to the current Plan Year under this Section 3.2(c) must apply only to Compensation paid for services performed
after the date the Deferral Agreement is entered into.      3.3    Termination of Participation   . Each Participant shall
remain a Participant until all amounts due to the Participant hereunder have been distributed to the Participant or Participant s Beneficiary.       ARTICLE IV         Benefits        4.1    Benefits for Participants   .      (a) The Benefits provided by this Plan for a
Participant shall equal the sum of the amounts credited to his or her Deferral Account in accordance with Section 5.2 and the deemed investment earnings credited thereto in accordance with Section 6.1. A Participant s Benefits under
this Plan shall be distributed in accordance with Article VII.      (b) Subject to Section 4.3 of the Plan, a Participant shall have a
nonforfeitable right to his or her Benefits under this Plan at all times, except that a Participant shall not have a nonforfeitable right to his or her Benefits attributable to RISP credits and deemed investment earnings thereon until such time as
the Participant has a nonforfeitable right to his or her RISP benefits in RAYSIP.      (c)  Thales-Raytheon Systems Transferees :
Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary, if a Thales-Raytheon Systems transferee elects, pursuant to an election provided by the Plan Administrator, to have his or her Benefits accrued under this Plan provided under the Thales-Raytheon
Systems Excess Savings and Deferred Bonus Plan ( Thales-Raytheon Plan ), the Employee Participant shall not have a Deferral Account or be entitled to any Benefits under this Plan. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term
 Thales-Raytheon Systems transferee  shall mean an Employee Participant who (i) immediately prior to June 1, 2001 was an employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates, and (ii) on such date became an employee of
Thales-Raytheon Systems Company, LLC. If an Employee Participant elects to transfer the obligation to provide his or her Benefits accrued under this Plan to the Thales-Raytheon Plan, the transferred Benefits shall be subject to the distribution
provisions and elections applicable under the Thales-Raytheon Plan.         
   6   

4.2    Amounts Not Made Available   . Amounts held in the Deferral Account shall not be
made available to the Participant, except as provided in Article VII.      4.3    Contingent Nature of Accounts   . Until the
Deferrals and deemed earnings thereon are distributed under the Plan to the Participants or Beneficiaries, the interest of each Participant and Beneficiary in this Plan is contingent only and is subject to forfeiture as provided hereunder. Title to
and beneficial ownership of any assets, whether cash or investments, which the Employer may set aside to meet its contingent deferred obligation hereunder shall at all times remain the property of the Employer, and Participants or Beneficiaries
shall not, under any circumstances, acquire any property interest in any specific assets of the Employer.      4.4    Funding of
Benefits   .      (a) Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or create any fiduciary relationship.
Funds deemed invested hereunder shall continue for all purposes to be a part of the general funds of the Employer and no person other than the Employer shall, by virtue of the Plan, have any interest in such funds. To the extent that any person
acquires a right to receive payments from the Employer under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Employer.      (b) Should any insurance contract or other investment be acquired in connection with the liabilities assumed under this Plan, it is expressly understood and agreed that the Participants and Beneficiaries shall not
have any right with respect to, or claim against, such assets nor shall any such purchase be construed to create a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Employer and the Participants, Beneficiaries or any other person. Any such
assets shall be and remain part of the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Employer, subject to the claims of its general unsecured creditors. Each Participant and Beneficiary shall be required to look to the provisions of this Plan and
to the Employer for enforcement of any and all Benefits under this Plan and, to the extent any such person acquires a right to receive payment under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the
Employer. The Employer (or the Trust described in (c) below, if any) shall be the designated owner and beneficiary of any insurance contract acquired in connection with its obligation under this Plan.      (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer may establish and deposit into a trust or trusts any amounts it deems appropriate to pay the Benefits
owed to Participants and Beneficiaries hereunder. The Plan Administrator may appoint an investment manager who shall be charged with the management of any assets of such trust or trusts, including the power to direct the acquisition and disposition
of any assets of the Plan.       ARTICLE V         Credits to Accounts        5.1    Deferral Agreements   . The Participant s
Compensation shall be reduced in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Deferral Agreement; provided however, that all such amounts shall be subject to the rights of the general unsecured creditors of the Employer. The Deferral Agreement
shall irrevocably designate the amount of Compensation deferred by each  
       
   7   

Participant. Unless the Plan Administrator provides otherwise, a separate Deferral Agreement, containing a specific election to defer, shall be required for
each Plan Year. Deferral Agreements may be made in writing, electronically or in any other format acceptable to the Plan Administrator.      5.2    Deferral Accounts   . The Plan Administrator shall establish a Deferral Account for each Participant who submits a Deferral Agreement, is eligible for RISP Credits, or has an account balance transferred to this Plan
from a Prior Plan. The Plan Administrator shall credit as a bookkeeping entry to the Deferral Account of a Participant the Deferrals designated by or made on behalf of the Participant and any subsequent deemed earnings or losses thereon.   
  5.3    Limitations on Deferrals   .      (a) For Plan Years beginning after December 31, 2007, Employee Participants may defer from four percent (4%) up to ninety percent (90%) of their RBI Awards, in multiples of whole percentages.
     (b) For Plan Years beginning after December 31, 2007, Employee Participants may defer from four percent (4%) up to ninety
percent (90%) of their Salary, in multiples of whole percentages.      (c) Director Participants may defer from twenty-five percent
(25%) to one hundred percent (100%) of their Annual Retainers and/or one hundred percent (100%) of their Board Fees.       ARTICLE VI         Deemed Investment of Accounts        6.1    Participant Directed Accounts   .      (a) This Section 6.1 describes the deemed investment rules for Participants.      (1) Participants may
direct the deemed investment of their Deferral Accounts in multiples of one percent (1%) to deemed investments in any or all of the investment options made available hereunder from time to time by the Plan Administrator.      (2) Deferral Accounts shall be deemed to be invested pursuant to the Participant s investment directions as of the date the Plan s
Recordkeeper credits the Deferral.      (3) Instructions regarding deemed investments shall be submitted to the Plan Administrator or its
designee in writing. Deemed investments shall continue in force until revoked or changed in accordance with subsection 6.1(a)(4).      (4)
Unless the Plan Administrator provides otherwise, Participants may change their investment directions, without limitation, by telephonic or other electronic direction to the Recordkeeper during its business hours, or at such other times as permitted
by the Recordkeeper, but such elections shall apply separately (i) with respect to new Deferrals to be contributed to the Plan after such date and (ii) with respect to the Participant s current Deferral Account.         
   8   

(5) If a Participant does not direct the deemed investment of his or her Deferral Account, the Deferral
Account will be treated as being invested in a money market account selected by the Plan Administrator until the Participant directs otherwise.      (6) In the event of the death or incapacity of the Participant, the foregoing provisions of Section 6.1(a) shall apply to the Participant s Beneficiary.      (7) If a Participant s Benefits are distributable as of a specified day (e.g., as of a particular January 1 or date of death), the amount of
the Benefits distributable shall be determined as of the first business day on or after such day and shall not be adjusted for any deemed earnings or losses after such day, even if the Benefits are not actually distributed until a later day.
     (b) The Plan Administrator and the Employers do not represent or guarantee successful deemed investment of any amounts under this Plan and
shall not be required to restore any loss which may result from such deemed investments or lack of investment. Each Participant and Beneficiary assumes the risk in connection with any decrease in value of his or her Deferral Account deemed invested
hereunder. Furthermore, the Plan Administrator and the Employers shall not be under any obligation to invest amounts corresponding to any investment options chosen by a Participant or Beneficiary. Any allocation to any deemed investment option shall
be made solely for purposes of determining the value of the Participant s Deferral Account under the Plan.      6.2    Valuation and
Account Statements   . Each Deferral Account shall be valued and adjusted for deemed earnings or losses at least quarterly; provided however, that such accounts may be valued and adjusted more frequently as the Plan Administrator may
determine. Each Participant shall receive a quarterly statement of his or her Deferral Account, although the Plan Administrator may provide more frequent statements in its discretion.      6.3    Investment Directions Non-Binding   . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, a Participant s
investment directions shall constitute expressions of preferences concerning the deemed investment of a Participant s Deferral Account. As such, the Participant s investment directions shall not require the Company, Employer, Recordkeeper,
Trustee or any other party to invest any assets in such investments or to determine the amount of a Participant s Deferral Account in accordance with such directions. The Plan Administrator shall have the final authority to determine the deemed
investment of a Participant s Deferral Account under this Plan.       ARTICLE VII         Distributions        7.1
   Distribution Provisions   .      (a) This Section 7.1 describes the distribution rules for Participants following
Separation from Service or death. A Participant s Deferral Account shall be reduced accordingly to reflect all distributions under this Article VII.      (b) Except as otherwise provided herein, the distribution of a Participant s Benefits under this Plan shall commence upon the Participant s Separation from Service and shall be payable in one of the
following forms, as selected in the Participant s initial Deferral Agreement:      (1) A lump sum cash payment to the Participant equal
to the dollar value of the Participant s Deferral Account as soon as administratively practicable on or after the January 1 immediately following the Participant s Separation from Service but no later than the first March 31
after that January  or         
   9   

(2) Annual payments to the Participant as soon as administratively practicable on or after each
January 1 following the Participant s Separation from Service, but no later than the first March 31 after that January 1, for a period of five (5), ten (10) or fifteen (15) years as elected by the Participant, adjusted
to the first business day in January as of which the respective payment is made, divided by the number of remaining payments to be made. Earnings will continue to accrue on the amounts that remain credited to the Deferral Account based on the
investments selected by the Participant.      (c) If the Participant elects a lump sum cash payment of his or her Benefits, and dies before the
payment has been made, the lump sum cash payment shall be made as soon as administratively practicable on or after the date of the Participant s death but no later than 90 days after the Plan learns of the death. If a Participant elects annual
installment payments of his or her Benefits, and dies before payments have commenced, the annual payments to the Beneficiary shall commence as soon as administratively practicable on or after the January 1 immediately following the
Participant s death, but no later than the first March 31 after that January 1. If a Beneficiary who is receiving annual payments dies, all remaining Benefits which were payable to such Beneficiary shall then be payable to the estate
of that Beneficiary in a lump sum as soon as administratively practicable on or after the date of the Beneficiary s death, but no later than 90 days after the Plan learns of the death. If a Participant elects annual installment payments of his
or her Benefits, and dies after payments have commenced but before all such payments have been made to the Participant, the remainder of the payments due to the Participant shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary in accordance with the
payment schedule elected by the Participant.      (d) If the Participant does not select a form of distribution in the Participant s
initial Deferral Agreement or if the Participant becomes eligible for RISP Credits before the Participant enters into a Deferral Agreement, the distribution of the Participant s benefits under this Plan shall be payable as though the
Participant had selected payment in the form of annual installments for a period of five (5) years, as described in Section 7.1(b)(2).      (e) A Participant may make one change in the form of distribution of the Participant s Post-2004 Deferral Account; provided that the change is made no later than twelve (12) months before the distribution is scheduled (without
regard to the change) to begin. Such a change will not take effect until twelve (12) months after it is made. In the event of such a change, the Participant s Post-2004 Account will begin to be paid five (5) years from the date on
which the distribution would have begun but for the change. Notice of such a change must be provided to the Plan Administrator in the form and in the manner prescribed by it.      (f) Notwithstanding the form of payment selected by a Participant under this Plan, at any time after the Participant s Separation from Service or
death that the net value of the Participant s Deferral Account and the deemed earnings thereon (including, only for this purpose,  
       
   10   

amounts under the Pre-2005 Plan and any other nonqualified deferred compensation plans of the Company) is less than $15,000, the Plan Administrator shall
automatically pay the amount in a lump sum.      (g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, if, at the time of Separation from
Service, the Participant is a  specified employee , as defined in Section 409A and the Employer s procedures for determining specified employees, distributions shall be made at the later of (i) the date otherwise provided in
this Article VII and (ii) the date that is fifteen (15) days after the date that is six (6) months after the date of Separation from Service; provided that if the Participant dies after a Separation from Service, but before the end of
the six-month period described above, the distribution shall be paid within 30 days after the Plan Administrator receives notice of the date of death.       ARTICLE VIII         Administration        8.1    Plan Administration and Finality of Decisions   . The Plan shall be administered by the Plan Administrator in accordance with its
terms and purposes. Except as otherwise provided in Article IX, the Plan Administrator shall have full discretionary authority to determine eligibility for Benefits and to construe the terms of the Plan, including all questions of fact and law. In
addition, the decisions made by and the actions taken by the Plan Administrator in the administration of the Plan shall be final and conclusive on all persons.      8.2    Duties of the Plan Administrator   . The Plan Administrator shall have sole authority, in its absolute discretion:      (a) to adopt, amend and rescind such rules and regulations as, in its opinion, may be advisable in the administration of the Plan;      (b) to prescribe the forms used in connection with the Plan, including Deferral Agreements (which shall be consistent with the terms of the Plan but need not be identical);      (c) to construe and interpret the Plan and any forms used in the operation of the Plan and the rules and regulations of the Plan;      (d) to take any actions necessary to correct an operational deficiency or plan document failure, including, but not limited to, adjusting the amount of
Benefits payable to be consistent with the terms of the Plan or seeking a refund of Benefits that were overpaid;      (e) to employ actuaries,
accountants, counsel, recordkeepers, and other persons the Plan Administrator deems necessary in connection with the administration of the Plan;      (f) to determine the extent, if any, to which assets to pay liabilities accrued under the Plan should be held in a rabbi trust or other funding vehicle, and to appoint one or more trustees or custodians to manage any funds held in a trust
or other funding vehicle; and         
   11   

(g) to take all other necessary and proper actions to fulfill its duties under the Plan.      8.3    Delegation of Authority   . The Plan Administrator may delegate its authority to administer the Plan to any individual(s) as the
Plan Administrator may determine and such individual(s) shall serve solely at the pleasure of the Plan Administrator. Any individual(s) authorized by the Plan Administrator to administer the Plan shall have the full power to act on behalf of the
Plan Administrator but shall at all times be subordinate to the Plan Administrator and the Plan Administrator shall retain ultimate authority for the administration of the Plan.      8.4    Plan Records   . The books and records to be maintained for the purposes of the Plan shall be maintained by the Recordkeeper
subject to the supervision of the Plan Administrator. All expenses of administering the Plan shall be paid by the Employer, including the costs of initially establishing the Participants  deemed investment accounts and any annual fees imposed
by financial institutions, brokerage firms or otherwise to maintain such accounts. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, after the initial establishment of the Participants  accounts, all expenses related to any Participant-directed
investment (such as brokerage fees, commissions or other transaction-specific costs) shall be debited to such Participant s Deferral Account.      8.5    Limited Liability   . Members of the Plan Administrator, officers and employees of the Employers shall not be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the establishment or administration
of this Plan, including the receipt of Benefits hereunder, unless attributable to his or her own fraud or willful misconduct, nor shall the Employer be liable to any person for any such action unless attributable to fraud or willful misconduct on
the part of a director, officer or employee of the Employer. Each Employer shall jointly and severally indemnify the Plan Administrator and each representative thereof against all loss, liability and expenses occasioned by an act or omission, except
for willful misconduct, fraud or bad faith.      8.6    Insolvency   .      (a) Should an Employer be considered insolvent such that the Employer is unable to pay current obligations as they come due or be subject to a proceeding
under the federal Bankruptcy Code or should the Employer become aware of its pending insolvency or bankruptcy, the Employer, acting through its board of directors or chief executive officer, shall give immediate written notice of such to the Plan
Administrator and the Trustee (or Trustees), if any.      (b) Upon receipt of such notice, the Plan Administrator and the Trustee (or Trustees)
shall cease to make any payments to Participants or Beneficiaries of the Employer and shall hold any and all assets with respect to those Participants and Beneficiaries for the benefit of the general unsecured creditors of the Employer. For this
purpose, it is expressly provided that the assets of each Employer which are intended for use in this Plan shall at all times be available to creditors of such Employer. Accordingly, the Plan shall be administered on an Employer-by-Employer basis,
such that accrued liabilities under the Plan on behalf of a particular Employer s employees (but not on behalf of any other Employer s employees) shall always be available to creditors of such Employer.      8.7    Adoption by Affiliates   . Each Affiliate adopting this Plan or withdrawing therefrom shall do so by adopting an appropriate
resolution of its board of directors or authorized officer.         
   12   

ARTICLE IX         Claims Procedure        9.1    Claims Submission   .      (a) All claims for Benefits under the Plan, regardless of the nature of the claim, shall be submitted to the Plan Administrator in writing on a form
provided by the Plan Administrator, or in any other manner designated by the Plan Administrator. Except as otherwise provided by the Plan Administrator, claims for Benefits should be sent to the Benefits Department, Raytheon Company, at the address
provided by the Plan Administrator.      (b) Claims for Benefits shall be submitted within a reasonable period of time after the date such
Benefits were purported to be available to the Participant or Beneficiary, with such determination of reasonableness to be made by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. All claims must adequately state the basis for the claim including a
statement of all pertinent facts, except to the extent expressly waived by the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator may prescribe additional procedural requirements for claims, not inconsistent herewith.      (c) In the event that a Participant or beneficiary does not receive any Plan benefit that is claimed, such Participant or beneficiary shall be entitled
to consideration and review as provided in this Article. Such consideration and review shall be conducted in a manner designed to comply with section 503 of ERISA.      (d) Failure by a Participant or beneficiary to follow the requirements of this Article shall result in the denial of the claim submitted. The Participant or Beneficiary submitting such deficient claim shall be deemed
to have not exhausted his or her administrative remedies under the Plan.      9.2    Initial Benefit
Determination   .          (a) Upon receipt of any properly submitted claim for Benefits, the Plan Administrator shall give
due consideration to the claim presented.      (b)  Timing and Notification of Benefit Determination . The Plan Administrator shall notify
the claimant, in accordance with subsection (c) below, of the Plan s benefit determination within a reasonable time period after receipt of the claim, but not later than 90 days after the Plan s receipt of the claim. This period may
be extended by the Plan for up to 90 days, provided that the Plan Administrator both determines that such an extension is necessary and notifies the claimant, prior to the expiration of the initial 90-day period, of the circumstances requiring the
extension of time and the date by which the Plan expects to render a decision. In the case of any extension, the notice of extension shall specifically explain the standards on which entitlement to a benefit is based and the unresolved issues that
prevent a decision on the claim. If the extension is necessary due to the failure of the claimant to submit the information necessary to decide the claim, the notice of extension must specifically describe the required information needed to resolve
the issue. The claimant shall have 60 days from receipt of the notice within which to provide the specified information.         
   13   

(c)  Manner and Content of Notification of Benefit Determination . If the claim is denied to any
extent by the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator shall provide a claimant with written or electronic notification of any adverse benefit determination; except that if no such notification is provided within the applicable time limit
prescribed in subsection (b), the initial claim for benefits shall be deemed to be denied as of the expiration of such time limit. Any electronic notification shall comply with DOL Regulations section 2520.104b-1(c)(1)(i), (iii) and (iv). The
notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:      (1) The specific reasons for the adverse
determination;      (2) Reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the determination is based;      (3) A description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or
information is necessary; and      (4) A description of the Plan s review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures,
including a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review.      9.3    Appeal of Adverse Benefit Determinations         (a) Claimants shall have a reasonable
opportunity to appeal an adverse benefit determination to the Raytheon Benefits Appeals Committee, which shall involve a full and fair review of the claim and adverse benefit determination which includes the following:      (1) Upon receipt of an adverse benefit determination, the claimant has up to sixty (60) days to file an appeal with the Raytheon Benefits Appeals
Committee. Except as otherwise provided by the Plan Administrator, a request to appeal an adverse benefit determination should be sent to the Benefits Department, Raytheon Company, at the address provided by the Plan Administrator.      (2) The claimant may submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relevant to the claim for benefits along with the
claimant s appeal.      (3) The claimant shall be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all
documents, records, and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits.      (4) The review shall take into account all
comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.      (b)  Timing of Notification of Benefit Determinations on Review . The Raytheon Benefits Appeals Committee shall notify a claimant in accordance with
subsection (c) of the Plan s benefit determination on review within a reasonable period of time, but not later  
       
   14   

than 60 days after receipt of the claimant s request for review by the Plan, unless the Raytheon Benefits Appeals Committee determines that special
circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. If the Raytheon Benefits Appeals Committee determines that an extension of time for processing the claim is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the
claimant prior to the termination of the initial 60-day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of 60 days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of
time and the date by which the Plan expects to render the determination on review.      (c)  Manner and Content of Notification of Benefit
Determination On Review . The Raytheon Benefits Appeals Committee shall provide a claimant with written or electronic notification of the Plan s benefit determination on review; except that if no such notification is provided within the
applicable time limit prescribed in subsection (b), the appeal of the adverse benefit determination shall be deemed to be denied as of the expiration of such time limit. Any electronic notification shall comply with DOL Regulations section
2520.104b-1(c)(1)(i), (iii) and (iv). In case of an adverse benefit determination, the notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:      (1) The specific reasons for the adverse determination;      (2) Reference to the specific Plan provisions on which the determination is based;      (3) A statement that
the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claimant s claim for benefits; and      (4) A statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under ERISA section 502(a).       ARTICLE X         Amendment and
Termination        10.1    Termination   . The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of
Participants or Beneficiaries. Upon the termination of the Plan, amounts will continue to be distributed as provided in Article VII, unless the Committee determines otherwise and such a determination must be consistent with the requirements of
Section 409A for avoiding taxation under Section 409A.      10.2    Amendment   . Except as provided in
Section 10.3, the Committee may amend the Plan in whole or in part without the consent of Participants or Beneficiaries; provided that, effective January 1, 2009, no amendment will affect the Pre-2005 Plan unless the amendment specifically
states that it applies to amounts deferred before January 1, 2005, within the meaning of Section 409A.         
   15   

10.3    No Reduction in Benefits   . No amendment shall reduce the amount credited to a
Participant s Deferral Account under the Plan as of the date the amendment is adopted without the consent of the Participant or Beneficiary.      10.4    Notice of Amendments and Termination   . Notice of such amendment or termination shall be given in writing to each Participant and Beneficiary of a deceased Participant.       ARTICLE XI         Miscellaneous
       11.1    Taxes   . If any federal, state or local income or employment tax is required to be withheld from any
distribution under the Plan, as determined in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator, no Participant or Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive such distribution until the Participant or Beneficiary has paid (or made provision for the
payment of) the requisite amount. To the extent any taxes such as the FICA Medicare tax must be withheld at the time of deferral, as determined in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator may require direct payment from
the Participant to his or her Employer, withholding by the Employer from salary or other amounts owed to the Participant, or such other means as it deems appropriate. The Employers do not represent or guarantee that any particular federal or state
income, payroll, personal property or other tax consequence will result from participation in this Plan. Participants should consult their personal tax advisors to determine the tax consequences of his or her participation in the Plan.   
  11.2    Employment Rights   . Participation in this Plan shall not be construed to confer upon any Participant the legal right to be
retained in the employ or service of the Employer or give a Participant or Beneficiary or any other person any right to any payment whatsoever, except to the extent of the Benefits provided for hereunder. Each Participant shall remain subject to
discharge to the same extent as if this Plan had never been adopted.      11.3    Plan Benefits Nontransferable   . Except for
qualified domestic relations orders within the meaning of ERISA section 206(d)(3), the right of any Participant or any Beneficiary to any benefit or to any payment hereunder shall not be subject in any manner to attachment or other legal process for
the debts of such Participant or Beneficiary and any such benefit or payment shall not be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or encumbrance. Any attempt by the Participant or Beneficiary to subject any benefit or
payment in whole or in part to the debts, contracts, liabilities engagements or torts of the Participant or Beneficiary or any other person, entitled to any such benefit or payment pursuant to the terms of the Plan shall result in the termination of
such benefit or payment in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator. For purposes of this Section 11.3, the Plan Administrator shall have the sole discretion to determine whether a domestic relations order is a qualified domestic relations
order within the meaning of ERISA section 206(d)(3) and the Plan Administrator s determination shall be binding on all persons.      11.4
   Lost Participants or Beneficiaries   . All Participants and Beneficiaries shall have the responsibility of keeping the Recordkeeper informed of their current address until such time as all Benefits due have been paid. If a
Participant or, in the case of the death of the Participant, a Beneficiary cannot be located by the Plan Administrator, exercising due diligence, for a period of at least three (3) years, then, in its sole discretion, the Plan Administrator may
presume that the  
       
   16   

Participant or Beneficiary is deceased for purposes of the Plan and all unpaid Benefits (net of due diligence expenses) owed to the Participant or
Beneficiary shall be forfeited to the benefit of all remaining Participants and/or Beneficiaries of the Plan. Any such presumption of death shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties.      11.5    Incompetence   . If the Plan Administrator determines that any person to whom a benefit is payable under the Plan is incompetent
by reason of a physical or mental disability, the Plan Administrator shall have the power to cause the payments becoming due to such person to be made to another person for his or her benefit without the responsibility of the Plan Administrator or
the Employer to see to the application of such payments. Any payment made pursuant to such power shall, as to such payment, operate as a complete discharge of the Plan Administrator, the Employer and any Trustee.      11.6    Identity   . If, at any time, any doubt exists as to the identity of any person entitled to any payment hereunder or the amount or
time of such payment, the Plan Administrator shall be entitled to hold such sum until such identity or amount or time is determined or until an order of a court of competent jurisdiction is obtained. The Plan Administrator shall also be entitled to
pay such sum into a court in accordance with the appropriate rules of law. Any expenses incurred by the Employer, the Plan Administrator and any trust incident to such proceeding or litigation shall be charged against the Deferral Account of the
affected Participant.      11.7    Other Benefits   . The Benefits of each Participant or Beneficiary hereunder shall be in
addition to any benefits paid or payable to or on account of the Participant or Beneficiary under any other pension, disability, annuity or retirement plan or policy whatsoever.      11.8    Construction   . Except as otherwise specifically provided in Article IX, all questions of interpretation, construction or
application arising under this Plan shall be decided by the Plan Administrator whose decisions shall be final and conclusive upon all persons.      11.9    Governing Law   . This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and federal law, as applicable.      11.10    Severability   . If any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Plan shall not be affected thereby.
     11.11    Pronouns   . Whenever used in this Plan, the masculine pronoun is deemed to include the feminine and the singular
pronoun shall include the plural form where applicable, and vice versa.         
   17   

By the signature of an authorized officer below, Raytheon Company adopts this amendment and restatement of the Plan.

December 18, 2008  
     
    /s/    Diane D. Avellar   

Diane D. Avellar  

Vice President, Performance Development,  

Benefits and Global Health Resources  

18   

EXHIBIT A        This Exhibit A to the Raytheon Deferred Compensation Plan and Articles VIII, IX, and XI of the main body of the Plan govern amounts deferred under the Plan before January 1, 2005 (the  Pre-2005 Plan ),
within the meaning of Section 409A. This Exhibit A is the same as the Plan document as it was in effect on October 3, 2004, with the following exceptions: this paragraph; the reference in Section 2.16 to the fact that no deferral of
LTAP Awards earned on or after January 1, 2003, was permitted; the references to corresponding (and identical or substantially similar) Articles of the main body of the Plan for Article VII (Administration), Article VIII (Claims Procedure),
Article X (Miscellaneous) in substitution for the text of those Articles; and insertion of the phrase   provided that, effective January 1, 2009, no amendment will affect the Pre-2005 Plan unless the amendment specifically states that it
applies to amounts deferred before January 1, 2005, within the meaning of Section 409A  at the end of Section 9.2.       ARTICLE I         General        1.1    Purpose   . The Raytheon Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is intended to be an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement for a select group of management or highly
compensated employees designed to secure for the Employers the benefits of such employees  continued employment by allowing Eligible Employees a means of irrevocably deferring to a future year the receipt of certain compensation from Employers,
including but not limited to compensation in excess of the limit described in Code section 401(a)(17). The Plan is not a joint venture among the Employers.      1.2    Background   . The Plan is the successor to the following plans, all of which will merge into the Plan effective January 1, 2000:      Raytheon Voluntary Compensation Deferment Plan      TI Deferred Compensation Plan      Hughes Missile Systems Company 1993 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan      Standard Missile Deferred Compensation Plan      MESC Deferred Compensation Plan      Raytheon Company Deferral Plan for Directors      Such plans shall be referred to herein as the  Prior Plans.       1.3    Applicability   . Deferrals under this Plan may only be made by Eligible Employees of Employers employed on or after the Effective Date. Deferrals made under the Prior Plans shall be governed by
the terms of this Plan, effective January 1, 2000.         
   A-1   

ARTICLE II         Definitions        2.1    Affiliate   .      (a) A trade or business that, together with the Company, is a member of (i) a controlled group of corporations within the meaning of
Code section 414(b); (ii) a group of trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control as defined in Code section 414(c), or (iii) an affiliated service group as defined in Code section 414(m), or which is an entity
otherwise required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to Code section 414(o); or      (b) If the Committee so
authorizes, an entity in which the Company owns at least a 25% equity or profits interest.      2.2    Beneficiary   . A person
or persons designated by a Participant on forms provided by the Committee to receive Benefits hereunder in the event of the death of the Participant. Beneficiaries may be changed at any time and without the consent of any prior Beneficiaries. In
case of a Participant s failure to designate a Beneficiary or the death of a Beneficiary without a designated successor, Benefits shall be paid to the Participant s surviving spouse, if any, and if none, to his or her surviving issue, per
stirpes, if any, and, if none, to his or her estate. If more than one person is designated as a Beneficiary of a deceased Participant, such person shall receive a pro rata share of any Benefits payable unless otherwise designated on the beneficiary
designation.      2.3    Benefits   . One of the following types of payments irrevocably elected by the Participant in a
Deferral Agreement, to be paid on account of the Participant s death, Retirement or Termination:      (a)  Death :      (1) A lump sum cash payment to a Participant s Beneficiary of the dollar value of the Participant s Deferral Account determined as of the last
day of the calendar quarter immediately preceding the Participant s date of death (or such other date as the Committee may determine), payable as soon as administratively practicable following the date of the Participant s death; or
     (2) Annual payments to the Participant s Beneficiary on each January 1 next following the date of the Participant s death,
in such amounts as may be provided by the dollar value of the Participant s Deferral Account immediately preceding the Participant s death for a period of five (5), ten (10) or fifteen (15) years as elected by the Participant
under his or her Deferral Agreement, adjusted to the January 1 as of which the respective payment is made, divided by the number of remaining payments to be made. Earnings will continue to accrue on the Deferral Account based on the investments
selected by the Participant s Beneficiary. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, unless the Committee provides otherwise, if a Beneficiary who is receiving Benefits dies, all remaining Benefits which were payable to such Beneficiary shall
then be payable to the estate of that Beneficiary in a lump sum.         
   A-2   

(b)  Retirement or Termination :      (1) A lump sum cash payment to Participant equal to the dollar value of the Participant s Deferral Account on the January 1 next following the
Participant s Retirement or Termination, as applicable; or      (2) Annual payments to the Participant on each January 1 next
following the Participant s Retirement or Termination for a period of five (5), ten (10) or fifteen (15) years as elected by the Participant under his or her Deferral Agreement, adjusted to the January 1 as of which the
respective payment is made, divided by the number of remaining payments to be made. Earnings will continue to accrue on the Deferral Account based on the investments selected by the Participant.      2.4    Code   . The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      2.5    Committee   . The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.      2.6    Company   . Raytheon Company or any successor thereto by merger, consolidation or reorganization whose board of directors adopts
this Plan.      2.7    Compensation   . Awards earned under the Results Based Incentive Plan ( RBI ) and the Long Term
Achievement Plan ( LTAP ) within the Plan Year to which a Deferral Agreement applies.      2.8    Contributions   .
Monies contributed to a Participant s Deferral Account, including deferral of Compensation by Participants and Employer contributions to Participant Accounts in Prior Plans.      2.9    Deferral Account   . The bookkeeping account established by the Committee on behalf of a Participant to reflect the
Participant s Deferrals and all subsequent earnings and losses thereon. A Participant s Deferral Account shall include amounts transferred from Prior Plans.      2.10    Deferral Agreement   . A written agreement approved by the Committee and executed by an Eligible Employee irrevocably authorizing (i) Deferrals for the Plan Year and (ii) the form in
which Benefits resulting from all such Deferrals and deemed earnings thereon are distributed.      2.11    Deferrals   .
Compensation receipt of which is deferred by Participant pursuant to a Deferral Agreement. In addition, all deferrals made under the Prior Plan shall be treated as Deferrals hereunder.      2.12    Effective Date   . The Plan shall be effective as of November 1, 1999. No Compensation earned prior to January 1, 2000,
shall be deferred hereunder, but accounts from Prior Plans will be transferred hereto.         
   A-3   

2.13    Eligible Employee   . An employee of an Employer who is an exempt, salaried,
management or highly compensated employee within the meaning of ERISA sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(7) and who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan.      2.14    Employer   . The Company and any Affiliate or division of the Company or an Affiliate which adopts this Plan with the consent of
the Company.      2.15    ERISA   . The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.      2.16    LTAP Award   . Benefits earned by a Participant under the Employer s Long Term Achievement Plan. LTAP Awards earned on or
after January 1, 2003 may not be deferred under this Plan.      2.17    Participant   . Any Eligible Employee selected by
the Committee to participate in the Plan who enters into a Deferral Agreement with an Employer or any participant in a Prior Plan.      2.18
   Plan Year   . Each twelve (12) month period beginning January 1.      2.19    Raytheon Common Stock
Fund   . A unitized fund consisting of investments in Raytheon common stock (Class B) and residual cash.      2.20    RBI
Award   . Bonuses earned by a Participant under the Employer s Results Based Incentive Plan.      2.21
   Recordkeeper   . Fidelity Institutional Services Company or such other entity appointed by the Committee to establish and maintain records for the Plan.      2.22    Retirement   . A severance from employment with an Employer upon the Participant s  Normal Retirement Date,   Early Retirement Date  or  Deferred Retirement
Date,  as those terms are used in the Raytheon Pension Plan for Salaried Employees, as amended from time to time.      2.23
   Termination   . A Participant s severance of employment other than by Retirement or death, but shall not include a transfer from one Employer or Affiliate to another nor a cessation of active employment by reason of an
 Authorized Leave of Absence  or  Authorized Military Leave of Absence,  as those terms are used in the Raytheon Pension Plan for Salaried Employees as amended from time to time. If an Affiliate ceases to be an Affiliate, any
Participant employed by such Affiliate shall be deemed to have severed employment by Termination unless the Participant is employed by another Employer or Affiliate within thirty (30) days following the termination of the Affiliate s
status as an Affiliate.      2.24    Trust   . The trust described in Section 4.6(c).      2.25    Trustee   . The trustee of the Trust.         
   A-4   

ARTICLE III         Participation        3.1    Effect of the Prior Plans   . As of the Effective Date,
all participants in the Prior Plans shall become Participants under this Plan, and all Contributions made under the Prior Plans and any deemed earnings thereon shall become subject to the terms of this Plan.      3.2    Commencement of Participation   .      (a) Each Eligible Employee shall become a Participant hereunder when the Committee accepts his or her Deferral Agreement.      (b) Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) below or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, Deferral Agreements must be received by the Committee no later than September 1 of the Plan Year
preceding the Plan Year in which the Deferrals shall be made.      (c) Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Committee may accept Deferral
Agreements with respect to the current Plan Year, but only if such Deferral Agreement is provided to the Committee within the first thirty (30) days of the date that an individual becomes eligible to participate in the Plan.      (d) Notwithstanding subsection (b), Deferral Agreements with respect to Deferrals to be made during the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2000 shall be
accepted by the Committee through November 30, 1999.      3.3    Termination of Participation   . Each Participant shall
remain a Participant until all amounts due to the Participant hereunder have been distributed to the Participant or Participant s Beneficiary.       ARTICLE IV         Contributions        4.1    Deferral Agreements   . The Participant s Employer shall reduce the Participant s Compensation in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Deferral Agreement; provided however,
that all such amounts shall be subject to the rights of the general unsecured creditors of the Employer. The Deferral Agreement shall irrevocably designate the amount of Compensation deferred by each Participant. Unless the Committee provides
otherwise, a separate Deferral Agreement, containing a specific election to defer, shall be required for each Plan Year. Deferral Agreements may be made in writing, electronically or in any other format acceptable to the Committee.      4.2    Deferral Accounts   . The Committee shall establish a Deferral Account for each Participant who submits a Deferral Agreement or has
a balance transferred to this Plan from a Prior Plan. The Committee shall credit as a bookkeeping entry to the Deferral Account of a Participant the amounts designated by the Participant on his or her Deferral Agreement and any subsequent deemed
earnings or losses thereon.         
   A-5   

4.3    Limitations on Deferrals   .      (a) Participants may defer from twenty-five percent (25%) up to one hundred percent (100%) of their RBI Awards, in multiples of whole
percentages.      (b) Unless the Committee provides otherwise, any Participant who elects to defer his or her LTAP Award hereunder must defer
one hundred percent (100%) of such LTAP Award.      4.4    Amounts Not Made Available   . Amounts held in the Deferral
Account shall not be made available to the Participant, except as provided in Article VI.      4.5    Contingent Nature of
Accounts   . Until the Deferrals and deemed earnings thereon are distributed under the Plan to the Participants or Beneficiaries, the interest of each Participant and Beneficiary in this Plan is contingent only and is subject to forfeiture
as provided hereunder. Title to and beneficial ownership of any assets, whether cash or investments, which the Employer may set aside to meet its contingent deferred obligation hereunder shall at all times remain the property of the Employer, and
Participants or Beneficiaries shall not, under any circumstances, acquire any property interest in any specific assets of the Employer.      4.6    Funding of Benefits   .      (a) Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or create
any fiduciary relationship. Funds deemed invested hereunder shall continue for all purposes to be a part of the general funds of the Employer and no person other than the Employer shall, by virtue of the Plan, have any interest in such funds. To the
extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Employer under the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Employer.      (b) Should any insurance contract or other investment be acquired in connection with the liabilities assumed under this Plan, it is expressly understood
and agreed that the Participants and Beneficiaries shall not have any right with respect to, or claim against, such assets nor shall any such purchase be construed to create a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Employer and
the Participants, Beneficiaries or any other person. Any such assets, including any Contributions shall be and remain part of the general, unpledged, unrestricted assets of the Employer, subject to the claims of its general unsecured creditors. Each
Participant and Beneficiary shall be required to look to the provisions of this Plan and to the Employer for enforcement of any and all Benefits under this Plan and, to the extent any such person acquires a right to receive payment under this Plan,
such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Employer. The Employer (or the Trust described in (c) below, if any) shall be designated owner and beneficiary of any insurance contract acquired in
connection with its obligation under this Plan.      (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Employer may establish and deposit into the Trust
any amounts it deems appropriate to pay the Benefits owed to Participants and Beneficiaries hereunder. The Committee may appoint an investment manager who shall be charged with the management of any assets of the Trust including the power to direct
the acquisition and disposition of any assets of the Plan.         
   A-6   

ARTICLE V         Investment of Accounts        5.1    Participant Directed Accounts   .   
  (a) Participants may direct the deemed investment of their Deferral Accounts in multiples of one percent (1%) to deemed investments in any or all
of the investment options made available hereunder from time to time by the Committee.      (b) Deferral Accounts shall be deemed to be
invested pursuant to the Participant s investment directions as of the date the Plan s Recordkeeper receives the Deferral.      (c)
Instructions regarding deemed investments shall be submitted to the Committee or its designee in writing. Deemed investments shall continue in force until revoked or changed in accordance with subsection 5.1(d).      (d) Unless the Committee provides otherwise, Participants may change their investment directions, without limitation, by telephone direction to the
Recordkeeper during its business hours, or at such other times as permitted by the Recordkeeper, but such elections shall apply separately (i) with respect to new Deferrals to be contributed to the Plan after such date and (ii) with
respect to the Participant s current Deferral Account.      (e) If a Participant does not direct the deemed investment of his or her
Deferral Account, the Deferral Account will be treated as being invested in a money market account selected by the Committee until the Participant directs otherwise.      (f) LTAP awards may only be invested in the Raytheon Common Stock Fund.      (g) In the event of the death or
incapacity of the Participant, the foregoing provisions of Section 5.1 shall apply to the Participant s Beneficiary.      5.2
   No Guarantee of Successful Investment   . The Committee and the Employers do not represent or guarantee successful deemed investment of any amounts under this Plan and shall not be required to restore any loss which may result from
such deemed investments or lack of investment. Each Participant and Beneficiary assumes the risk in connection with any decrease in value of his or her Deferral Account deemed invested hereunder. Furthermore, the Committee and the Employers shall
not be under any obligation to invest amounts corresponding to any investment options chosen by a Participant or Beneficiary. Any allocation to any deemed investment option shall be made solely for purposes of determining the value of the
Participant s Deferral Account under the Plan.      5.3    Valuation and Account Statements   . Each Deferral Account shall
be valued and adjusted for deemed earnings or losses at least quarterly; provided however, that such accounts may be valued and adjusted more frequently as the Committee may determine. Each Participant shall receive a quarterly statement of his or
her Deferral Account, although the Committee may provide more frequent statements in its discretion.         
   A-7   

ARTICLE VI         Distributions        6.1    General   .      (a) Distribution of each Participant s Benefits hereunder, as elected by Participant, shall commence upon the earliest to occur of the
Participant s (i) Retirement; (ii) Termination; or (iii) death.      (b) If a Participant elects installment payments of
his or her Benefits, but dies before all such payments have been made to the Participant, the remainder of the payments due to the Participant shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary either as a lump sum or in accordance with the payment
schedule elected by the Participant, as determined by the Committee.      (c) A Participant may make one change in the form of distribution,
provided notice of such change is provided to the Committee no later than six (6) months prior to the commencement of distribution.      6.2    Involuntary Lump Sum Distributions   . Notwithstanding the type of payment elected by a Participant under his or her Deferral Agreement, at any time after the Participant s Retirement, Termination or death that
the net value of the Participant s Deferral Account and the deemed earnings thereon is less than $15,000, the Committee shall:      (a) In
the case of Termination, automatically pay the amount in a lump sum; or      (b) In the case of death or Retirement, pay such amount in a lump
sum if the Committee shall determine such payment to be desirable for the efficient administration of the Plan.       ARTICLE VII
        Administration        [See Article VIII of the main body of the Plan, which applies to this Exhibit A.]       ARTICLE VIII         Claims Procedure        [See Article
IX of the main body of the Plan, which applies to this Exhibit A.]       ARTICLE IX         Amendment and Termination        9.1
   Termination   . The Committee may terminate the Plan at any time without the consent of Participants or Beneficiaries. Upon the termination of the Plan, amounts will be continue to be distributed as provided in Article VI, unless
the Committee determines otherwise.         
   A-8   

9.2    Amendment   . Except as provided in Section 9.3, the Committee may amend the
Plan in whole or in part without the consent of Participants or Beneficiaries; provided that, effective January 1, 2009, no amendment will affect the Pre-2005 Plan unless the amendment specifically states that it applies to amounts deferred
before January 1, 2005, within the meaning of Section 409A.      9.3    No Reduction in Benefits   . Any amendment
shall not reduce, alter or impair the amount of the Participant s or Beneficiary s rights to any amounts already credited to the Participant s Deferral Account hereunder without consent of the Participant or Beneficiary.   
  9.4    Notice of Amendments and Termination   . Notice of such amendment or termination shall be given in writing to each Participant
and Beneficiary of a deceased Participant.       ARTICLE X         Miscellaneous        [See Article XI of the main body of the Plan, which applies to this Exhibit A.]
        
   A-9   

</EX-10.11>

<EX-12>
 3
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIO TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES

Statement regarding Computation of Ratio to Combined Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12    
         RAYTHEON COMPANY              Statement Regarding Computation of        Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges        (dollar
amounts in millions except for ratio)        (excludes discontinued operations for all periods)          

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF RAYTHEON COMPANY

Subsidiaries of Raytheon Company 

Exhibit 21    
         RAYTHEON COMPANY SUBSIDIARIES          

Name of Subsidiary    
     
    Jurisdiction    
     
    Ownership     Percentage     

In accordance with Item 601(b)(21) of
Regulation S-K, the Company has omitted from this Exhibit the names of its subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate or as a single subsidiary, do not constitute a significant subsidiary as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X.

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23          
    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM         
     We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-154677; 333-71974; 333-58474; and 333-82529)
and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-124690; 333-56117; 333-52536; 333-64168; and 333-45629) of Raytheon Company of our report dated February 25, 2009, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.            /s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      February 25, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF WILLIAM H. SWANSON, SECTION 302

Certification of William H. Swanson, Section 302 

Exhibit 31.1              CERTIFICATION OF WILLIAM H. SWANSON PURSUANT TO SECTION 302             CERTIFICATION            I, William H. Swanson, certify that:         

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Raytheon Company;           

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):           

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 25, 2009
           /s/ William H. Swanson      William H. Swanson      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF DAVID C. WAJSGRAS, SECTION 302

Certification of David C. Wajsgras, Section 302 

Exhibit 31.2              CERTIFICATION OF DAVID C. WAJSGRAS PURSUANT TO SECTION 302             CERTIFICATION            I, David C. Wajsgras, certify that:         

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Raytheon Company;           

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;           

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;           

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:           

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and           

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):           

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
             Date: February 25, 2009
           /s/ David C. Wajsgras      David C. Wajsgras      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      (Principal Financial Officer)   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF WILLIAM H. SWANSON, SECTION 906

Certificate of William H. Swanson, Section 906 

Exhibit 32.1              CERTIFICATE OF WILLIAM H. SWANSON PURSUANT TO SECTION 906             CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF      THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            In connection with the annual report of Raytheon Company (the  Company ) on Form
10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, William H. Swanson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:         

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and           

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.              /s/ William H. Swanson      William H. Swanson      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      February 25, 2009            A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATE OF DAVID C. WAJSGRAS, SECTION 906

Certificate of David C. Wajsgras, Section 906 

Exhibit 32.2              CERTIFICATE OF DAVID WAJSGRAS PURSUANT TO SECTION 906             CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,      AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF      THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            In connection with the annual report of Raytheon Company (the  Company ) on Form
10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, David C. Wajsgras, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:         

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and           

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.              /s/ David C. Wajsgras      David C. Wajsgras      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      February 25, 2009            A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

