<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130208_10-K_edgar_data_100885_0001193125-13-045658_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>14123936</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>379422</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3717669</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3061628</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4267292</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2360996</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>90</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-045658.hdr.sgml : 20130208
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130208133006
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-045658
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		29
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130208
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130208

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNION PACIFIC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000100885
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING [4011]
		IRS NUMBER:				132626465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			UT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06075
		FILM NUMBER:		13585988

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179
		BUSINESS PHONE:		402 544 5214

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-045658.txt : 20130208

10-K
 1
 d477110d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K    
   (Mark One)        

[X]  
    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012    
   OR       

[    ]  
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the transition period from                        to
                         
    Commission File Number 1-6075         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

UTAH   

13-2626465    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer     Identification No.)    
     1400 DOUGLAS STREET, OMAHA, NEBRASKA       (Address of principal executive offices)       68179    
  (Zip Code)       (402) 544-5000
      (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of each Class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock (Par Value $2.50 per share)   
      
   New York Stock Exchange, Inc.    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      
  Large accelerated filer  
               Accelerated filer                 Non-accelerated filer                 Smaller reporting company                

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).      
           Yes            
         No            
     As of June 29, 2012, the aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York
Stock Exchange closing price) was $56.2 billion.      The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock as of February
1, 2013 was 469,298,732.           

Table of Contents  

    Documents Incorporated by Reference    Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 16, 2013, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. The registrant s Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A.         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   TABLE OF CONTENTS        

CEO s Letter    

3  

Directors and Senior Management    

4  

PART I     

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

5  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    

10  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

13  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

13  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    

16  

Item 4.   
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

18  

Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries    

18  

PART II     

Item 5.   
     
     Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

19  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    

21  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

22  

Critical Accounting Policies    

42  

Cautionary Information    

47  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

48  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

49  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

50  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

83  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    

83  

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

84  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

85  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    

86  

PART III     

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance    

86  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    

86  

Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

87  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    

87  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

87  

PART IV     

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

88  

Signatures    

89  

Certifications     

99  

2   

Table of Contents  

   February 8, 2013        Fellow Shareholders:      Last year was a historic milestone for Union Pacific,
marking 150 years of building America. It was our most profitable year on record, leading the U.S. rail industry in overall financial performance. Our 2012 results are a testament to the strength and diversity of our franchise and the dedication and
commitment of our employees. For the first time, we achieved a sub-70 operating ratio of 67.8 percent, contributing to record earnings per share of $8.27, and a best-ever return on invested capital of 14.0 percent. Shareholders were rewarded with
increased financial returns, including a 29 percent increase in dividends declared per share compared to 2011 and $1.5 billion in share repurchases. UP s stock price reached new highs in 2012, increasing 19 percent and outpaced the S P
500 by 5 points.      Despite a challenging economic environment and a significantly weaker coal market, our diverse portfolio of business,
including shale-related crude oil and frac sand moves, automotive shipments, chemicals, and domestic intermodal traffic, offset the 14 percent decline in coal volumes. Operationally, we successfully managed the shifts in business mix, improved
network efficiency and fluidity, and operated a safer railroad.      We achieved these record results by following a very straightforward
strategy   an unrelenting focus on creating value for our customers by providing safe, efficient, and reliable service. In turn, customers rewarded us with record satisfaction ratings, clearly valuing our service offerings and the efficiencies
we provide as part of their total supply chain. In addition, with our Total Safety Culture and The UP Way infused throughout the Company, employee injuries hit a record low in 2012, capping more than a decade of significant improvement.   
  Our capital investments play a critical role in meeting the long-term demand for freight transportation in the U.S. In 2012, we invested a record
$3.7 billion across our network, supported by our best-ever financial returns. Over half was spent on replacing and hardening our infrastructure to further enhance safety and reliability. The balance was invested to increase customer value, support
business growth, and advance efforts on Positive Train Control (PTC) implementation, a federally mandated program. Through 2012, we have invested nearly $750 million dollars of our estimated $2 billion spend on PTC.   
  A significant portion of our growth capital investment in 2012 was targeted to the southern region of our network to meet growing demand for new
business, particularly in the shale-related energy arena. The increasing development of oil production in various domestic shale formations is providing an emerging market opportunity for rail with shipments of inbound frac sand and pipe, and
outbound crude oil. In 2012, the impact was substantial   our crude oil shipments grew more than three fold compared to 2011. Going forward, we anticipate continued opportunities for growth in this market driven by our proven ability to provide
an efficient and flexible transportation solution for growing demand.      In an evolving marketplace, our franchise diversity remains an
absolute core strength of Union Pacific. An increasing U.S. population base will stimulate long-term growth for many of the goods we carry. To meet this growing demand, we anticipate continued opportunities to convert freight from the highway,
supported by our integrated network, competitive service offerings, and environmental advantages. We also play a vital role in the global supply chain, with international trade currently representing more than 30 percent of our revenue base. In
particular, as the only railroad to serve all six major gateways to Mexico, we are in an excellent position to benefit from economic growth in that country.      The men and women of Union Pacific are proud of the Company s 150-year history, but we re squarely focused on the opportunities the future presents, as well as its challenges. The results achieved in 2012
demonstrate the power and potential of our franchise as we continue to run an even safer railroad, help our country grow, create value for our customers, and increase financial returns for our shareholders. Our future is bright as we see even
greater prospects in the years to come.         

President   Chief Executive Officer   
         3   

Table of Contents  

      DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT    

BOARD OF DIRECTORS   

Andrew H. Card, Jr.      Acting Dean  
  The Bush School of     Government   Public Service,  
  Texas A M University      Board Committees: Audit,
Finance           Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   
  Superintendent     Atlanta Public Schools  
   Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits (Chair),
Corporate       Governance and Nominating       
   Thomas J. Donohue      President and  
  Chief Executive Officer     U.S. Chamber of Commerce  
   Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate
Governance       and Nominating       
   Archie W. Dunham      Retired Chairman  
  ConocoPhillips      Board Committees: Corporate   
   Governance and Nominating,       Finance    
      
     Judith Richards Hope      Distinguished Visitor
from Practice     and Professor of Law     Georgetown University
Law Center      Board Committees: Audit (Chair),   
   Finance           John J. Koraleski      President and     Chief Executive Officer     Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company          Charles C.
Krulak      General, USMC, Ret.     President  
  Birmingham   Southern College      Board Committees: Audit,
Finance           Michael R. McCarthy   
  Chairman     McCarthy Group, LLC  
   Board Committees: Audit, Finance           Michael W. McConnell      General Partner     Brown Brothers Harriman   Co.      Board Committees: Audit,   
   Finance (Chair)    
      
     Thomas F. McLarty III      President  
  McLarty Associates      Board Committees: Compensation   
   and Benefits, Corporate       Governance and
Nominating           Steven R. Rogel   
  Retired Chairman     Weyerhaeuser Company  
  Lead Independent Director      Board Committees:
Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate Governance and Nominating (Chair)   
       Jose H. Villarreal      Advisor     Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer   Feld, LLP      Board Committees: Compensation       and Benefits, Corporate   
   Governance and Nominating           James R. Young      Chairman     Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company    

SENIOR MANAGEMENT   

James R. Young      Chairman  
  Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad
Company          John J. Koraleski   
  President and     Chief Executive Officer  
  Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad
Company          Eric L. Butler   
  Executive Vice President-     Marketing and Sales  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company          Diane K. Duren      Executive Vice President     Union Pacific Corporation          Charles R.
Eisele      Senior Vice President Strategic  
  Planning     Union Pacific Corporation  
       Lance M. Fritz      Executive Vice President      Operations     Union Pacific Railroad Company   
      
     Mary Sanders Jones      Vice President and
Treasurer     Union Pacific Corporation      
   D. Lynn Kelley      Vice President Continuous  
  Improvement     Union Pacific Railroad Company  
       Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President Finance     and Chief Financial Officer  
  Union Pacific Corporation          Joseph E. O Connor, Jr.      Vice President Purchasing  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company          Patrick J. O Malley      Vice President Taxes and General Tax Counsel  
  Union Pacific Corporation          Michael A. Rock      Vice President External Relations     Union Pacific Corporation   
      
     Barbara W. Schaefer      Senior Vice
President Human Resources and Secretary     Union Pacific Corporation      
   Lynden L. Tennison      Senior Vice President and  
  Chief Information Officer     Union Pacific Corporation  
       Gayla L. Thal      Senior Vice President Law     and General Counsel     Union Pacific Corporation          Jeffrey P.
Totusek      Vice President and Controller     Union Pacific
Corporation          Robert W. Turner   
  Senior Vice President      Corporate Relations  
  Union Pacific Corporation          William R. Turner      Vice President Labor Relations     Union Pacific Railroad Company    
 
         4   

Table of Contents  

       PART I           Item 1.  Business          GENERAL    
  Union Pacific Railroad is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America s most recognized companies, Union
Pacific Railroad links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain. The Railroad s diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal,
Industrial Products and Intermodal. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada s rail systems and is the only
railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible manner.   
  Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.
The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP .   
  For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to  UPC ,  Corporation ,
 we ,  us , and  our  shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as  UPRR  or the  Railroad .   
   Available Information    Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our website (under the
 Investors  caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4, and 5, filed on
behalf of directors and executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the SEC s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our
corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are available on our website. From time to time, the corporate
governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without
charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.   
  We have included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certifications regarding our public disclosure required by
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31(a) and (b) to this report.      References to our website address in
this report, including references in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation by
reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.   
   OPERATIONS       The Railroad, along with its
subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network.
Additional information regarding our business and operations, including revenue and financial information and data and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item 
Selected Financial Data, Item  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item  and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding
revenues, statements of income, and total assets).   
         5   

Table of Contents  

Operations    UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 31,868 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and
eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific
Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. Our freight traffic consists of bulk, manifest, and premium business.
Bulk traffic is primarily coal, grain, rock, or soda ash in unit trains   trains transporting a single commodity from one source to one destination. Manifest traffic is individual carload or less than train-load business and includes
 commodities  such  as  lumber,  steel,  paper,   
      
     2012 Freight Revenue       

food and chemicals. The transportation of finished vehicles, intermodal containers and truck trailers is part of our premium business. In 2012, we generated
freight revenues totaling $19.7 billion from the following six commodity groups:    
     Agricultural    Transportation of grains, commodities produced from these grains, and food and beverage
products generated 17% of the Railroad s 2012 freight revenue. The Company accesses most major grain markets, linking the Midwest and western producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports, as well as Mexico.
We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders and ethanol producers in the Midwest, West, South and Rocky Mountain states. Unit trains, which transport a single commodity between producers and export
terminals or domestic markets, represent approximately 35% of agricultural shipments.       Automotive    We are the largest
automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River and operate or access over 40 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad s extensive franchise serves vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports and the Port of Houston to
accommodate both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, UP provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S. and Canada. The automotive group
generated 9% of Union Pacific s freight revenue in 2012.       Chemicals    Transporting chemicals generated 16% of our
freight revenue in 2012. The Railroad s unique franchise serves the chemical producing areas along the Gulf Coast, where roughly two-thirds of the Company s chemical business originates, terminates or travels. Our chemical franchise also
accesses chemical producers in the Rocky Mountains and on the West Coast. The Company s chemical shipments include three broad categories: Petrochemicals, Fertilizer and Soda Ash. Petrochemicals include industrial chemicals, plastics and
petroleum products, including crude oil and liquid petroleum gases. The petroleum products primarily originate from the Bakken shale formation in North Dakota and the Permian and Eagle Ford shale formations in Texas, which we also deliver to the
Gulf Coast area. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, the western part of the U.S. and Canada for delivery to major agricultural users in the Midwest, western U.S. and abroad. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and
California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad.       Coal    Shipments of coal and
petroleum coke accounted for 20% of our freight revenue in 2012. The Railroad s network supports the transportation of coal and petroleum coke to utilities and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports,
UP s reach extends to eastern U.S. utilities, Mexico, Europe and Asia. Water terminals allow the Railroad to move western U.S. coal east via the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, as well as the Great Lakes. Export coal moves through West Coast ports
to Asia and through Mississippi River and Gulf Coast terminals to Europe. Coal traffic originating in the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) area of Wyoming is the largest segment of UP s coal business.   
   Industrial Products    Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and
destination points throughout North America. The Industrial Products commodity group consists of several categories, including construction products, metals, minerals, paper, consumer   
         6   

Table of Contents  

goods, lumber and other miscellaneous products. In 2012, this group generated 18% of Union Pacific s total freight revenue. Commercial and highway construction drives shipments of steel and
construction products, consisting of rock, cement and roofing materials. Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, frac sand and drilling fluid products. Industrial manufacturing plants receive nonferrous metals and
industrial minerals. Paper and consumer goods, including furniture and appliances, move to major metropolitan areas for consumers. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest and Canada and move throughout the U.S. for use in new
home construction and repair and remodeling.       Intermodal    Our Intermodal business includes two shipment categories:
international and domestic. International business consists of imported and exported container traffic that mainly passes through West Coast ports served by UP s extensive terminal network. Domestic business includes container and trailer
traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies), as well as truckload carriers. Less-than-truckload and package carriers with time-sensitive business
requirements are also an important part of these domestic shipments. Together, international and domestic business generated 20% of UP s 2012 freight revenue.       Seasonality    Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity, such as certain agricultural and food products that have specific
growing and harvesting seasons, and the demand cycle for the commodity, such as intermodal traffic, which generally has a peak shipping season during the third quarter to meet holiday-related demand for consumer goods during the fourth quarter. The
peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably from year to year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies and the strength of harvests and market prices for
agricultural products. In response to an annual request delivered by the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to all of the Class I railroads operating in the U.S., we issue a publicly available letter
during the third quarter detailing our plans for handling traffic during the third and fourth quarters and providing other information requested by the STB.       Working Capital    At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had a working capital surplus. This reflects a strong cash position, which provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In
addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.   
   Competition    We are subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Our main
rail competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC. Its rail subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor carriers.
Motor carrier competition exists for five of our six commodity groups (excluding coal). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for grain and bulk
commodities. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges are able to use public
rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of transportation, or legislation releasing motor carriers from their size or
weight limitations, could have a material adverse effect on our business.       Key Suppliers    We depend on two key domestic
suppliers of high horsepower locomotives. Due to the capital intensive nature of the locomotive manufacturing business and sophistication of this equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers of entry into this industry. Therefore, if one of
these domestic suppliers discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience a significant cost increase and risk reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our
operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two suppliers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical for both maintenance of our network and replacement and improvement
or expansion of our network and facilities. Rail manufacturing also has high barriers of entry, and, if one of those suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience cost increases and
difficulty obtaining rail.       Employees    Approximately 86% of our 45,928 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14
major rail unions. During the year, we concluded the most recent round of negotiations, which began in   
         7   

Table of Contents  

2010, with the ratification of new agreements by several unions that continued negotiating into 2012. All of the unions executed similar multi-year agreements that provide for higher employee
cost sharing of employee health and welfare benefits and higher wages. The current agreements will remain in effect until renegotiated under provisions of the Railway Labor Act. The next round of negotiations will begin in early 2015.   
   Railroad Security    Our security efforts rely upon a wide variety of measures including employee training, cooperation with our
customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and
other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives.       UPRR Security Measures   
We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and to respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police
force, consisting of more than 200 commissioned and highly-trained officers. Our employees also undergo recurrent security and preparedness training, as well as federally-mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the
sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations.      We have an emergency response management center, which operates 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from
our employees, the public, and law enforcement and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize
risk to communities and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We also design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the
time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Agency regulations, we deployed information systems and instructed employees in tracking and
documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Material with customers and interchange partners.      We also have established a number
of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on the Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance
their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assesses cyber security risks and implements mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment.
      Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies    We work closely on physical and cyber security initiatives
with government agencies that include the DOT and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), as well as local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders. In conjunction with DOT, DHS, and other railroads, we sponsor Operation
Respond, which provides first responders with secure links to electronic railroad resources, including mapping systems, shipment records, and other essential information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations.
We also participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism.   
  We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command which monitor shipments
entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain
effective security processes throughout the global supply chain.       Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations    Along
with other railroads, we work with the American Chemistry Council to train approximately 200,000 emergency responders annually. We work with many of our chemical shippers to establish plant security plans, and we continue to take steps to more
closely monitor and track hazardous materials shipments. In cooperation with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the
risk of releases of hazardous materials.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

    GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION    
   Governmental Regulation    Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all
businesses. (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.)      The operations of the
Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the STB. The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or
abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. In 2012, the STB continued its efforts to explore whether to expand rail regulation. The STB has requested parties to submit studies that describe and quantify the
potential impact of expanded reciprocal switching or trackage rights arrangements on railroads. Although several bills involving railroad regulation expired during the last session of Congress, we continually monitor any legislative activity
involving rail and transportation regulation.      The operations of the Railroad also are subject to the regulations of the FRA and other
federal and state agencies. On January 12, 2010, the FRA issued initial rules governing installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) by the end of 2015. The final regulation is still forthcoming. Although still under development, PTC is a
collision avoidance technology intended to override locomotive controls and stop a train before an accident. Following the issuance of the initial rules, the FRA acknowledged that projected costs will exceed projected benefits by a ratio of at least
22 to one, and we estimate that our costs will be higher than those assumed by the FRA. In August 2012, the FRA provided Congress with a status report regarding implementation of PTC. This report indicated that the rail industry will likely achieve
only partial deployment of PTC by the current deadline due to significant technical and other issues. Through 2012, we have invested nearly $750 million in the development of PTC.   
  DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and DHS, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of
safety, movement of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, emissions requirements, and equipment standards. The Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, among other things, revised hours of service rules for train and certain other railroad employees,
mandated implementation of PTC, imposed passenger service requirements, addressed safety at rail crossings, increased the number of safety related employees of the FRA, and increased fines that may be levied against railroads for safety violations.
Additionally, various state and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in ways not preempted by federal law.   
   Environmental Regulation    We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental statutes and regulations pertaining to public
health and the environment. The statutes and regulations are administered and monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and by various state environmental agencies. The primary laws affecting our operations are the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, regulating the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, regulating the cleanup of contaminated properties; the Clean Air Act, regulating air
emissions; and the Clean Water Act, regulating waste water discharges.      Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies
and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7 and Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A.  Risk Factors     
  The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8.       We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity    If there is significant demand for our services that exceeds the designed capacity of our network, we may experience network
difficulties, including congestion and reduced velocity, that could compromise the level of service we provide to our customers. This level of demand may also compound the impact of weather and weather-related events on our operations and velocity.
Although we continue to improve our transportation plan, add capacity, improve operations at our yards and other facilities, and improve our ability to address surges in demand for any reason with adequate resources, we cannot be sure that these
measures will fully or adequately address any service shortcomings resulting from demand exceeding our planned capacity. We may experience other operational or service difficulties related to network capacity, dramatic and unplanned increases or
decreases of demand for rail service with respect to one or more of our commodity groups or operating regions, or other events that could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In the event that we experience significant reductions of demand for rail services with respect to one or more of our commodity groups, we may experience increased costs associated with
resizing our operations, including higher unit operating costs and costs for the storage of locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment; work-force adjustments; and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Affected by General Economic Conditions    Prolonged severe
adverse domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets, including the availability of short- and long-term debt financing, may affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a
material adverse effect on our access to liquidity and our results of operations and financial condition.       We Are Required to
Transport Hazardous Materials    Federal laws require railroads, including us, to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. Any rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our
facilities, or at the facilities of our customers involving the release of hazardous materials, including toxic inhalation hazard (or TIH) materials such as chlorine, could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage,
and environmental penalties and remediation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers    We face competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. In addition to price competition, we
face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system, trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future
improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation releasing motor carriers from their size or weight limitations, could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate.   
   We Are Subject to Significant Governmental Regulation    We are subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of federal,
state, and local authorities covering a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, economic (as discussed below), and other matters. Many laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits, and other
authorizations, and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Governments or regulators may change the legislative or
regulatory frameworks within which we operate without providing us any recourse to address any adverse effects on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution, business relationships
with other railroads, calculation of our cost of capital or other inputs relevant to computing our revenue adequacy, the prices we charge, and costs and expenses. Significant legislative activity in Congress or regulatory activity by the STB could
expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities and equipment and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity. As part   
         10   

Table of Contents  

of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, rail carriers must currently implement PTC by the end of 2015, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make other capital
investments. Rail carriers may not meet the mandatory deadline for PTC implementation. One or more consolidations of Class I railroads could also lead to increased regulation of the rail industry.   
   We Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations    We rely on information technology in all aspects of our
business. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or if we are unable to develop or implement new technology such as PTC or the latest version of our transportation control systems, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage
within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, if a cyber attack or other event
causes significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could suffer a significant service interruption, safety failure, security breach,
or other operational difficulties, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations as the Majority of Our Employees Belong to Labor Unions and Labor Agreements    The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective
bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages,
slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or
renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our results
of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       Severe Weather Could Result in Significant Business Interruptions and
Expenditures    As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides, extreme temperatures, and significant
precipitation that may cause business interruptions, including line outages on our rail network, that can adversely affect our entire rail network and result in increased costs, increased liabilities, and decreased revenue, which could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Subject to Various Claims and
Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures    As a railroad with operations in densely populated urban areas and other cities and a vast rail network, we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to
labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal
injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Laws and Regulations    Due to the nature of the railroad business, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and
regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and other materials; and hazardous material or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous
and non-hazardous waste in our operations, and we did so in our former operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties, and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties we
currently own. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. We have been and may be subject to allegations or findings that we have violated, or
are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. We could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental
contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May
Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory Responses to Climate Change    Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating   
         11   

Table of Contents  

costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or
delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers.
Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, which in
turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for
certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Finally, we could face increased costs related to
defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other
unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
     The Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations      Changes in demographics, training
requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could
have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.          Rising or Elevated Fuel Costs and Whether We Are Able to Mitigate These Costs with Fuel Surcharges Could Materially and Adversely Affect Our Business    Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our
transportation expenses. Diesel fuel prices are subject to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we currently are able to recover a significant amount of our
increased fuel expenses through revenue from fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through surcharges. Future market conditions or legislative or regulatory activities could
adversely affect our ability to apply fuel surcharges or adequately recover increased fuel costs through fuel surcharges. International, political, and economic circumstances affect fuel prices and supplies. Weather can also affect fuel supplies and
limit domestic refining capacity. If a fuel supply shortage were to arise, higher fuel prices could, despite our fuel surcharge programs, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   We Utilize Capital Markets    Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient
railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements. We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper from time-to-time, and we pledge certain of our receivables. Significant instability or
disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and
other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A deterioration of our financial condition could result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment grade, which
could prohibit or restrict us from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility or accessing external sources of short- and long-term debt financing and significantly increase the costs associated with utilizing the receivables
securitization facility and issuing both commercial paper and long-term debt.       We Are Subject to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal
Developments Involving Taxes    Taxes are a significant part of our expenses. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new
tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity.       We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail    Due to the capital intensive nature and
sophistication of locomotive equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry. Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including bankruptcy or
insolvency, we could experience significant cost   
         12   

Table of Contents  

increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary for our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two suppliers (one domestic and
one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance, and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing facilities. This
industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining
sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects.       We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of War    Our rail
lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of
war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be available to us in the
future.         Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments        None.         Item 2.  Properties     
  We employ a variety of assets in the management and operation of our rail business. Our rail network covers 23 states in the western two-thirds of
the U.S.         

13   

Table of Contents  

    TRACK       Our rail network includes 31,868 route miles. We own 26,020 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. The following table describes track miles at December 31, 2012 and 2011.
      
     HEADQUARTERS BUILDING       We maintain our headquarters in Omaha, Nebraska. The facility has 1.2 million square feet of space for approximately 4,000 employees and is subject to a financing arrangement.   
   HARRIMAN DISPATCHING CENTER       The Harriman
Dispatching Center (HDC), located in Omaha, Nebraska, is our primary dispatching facility. It is linked to regional dispatching and locomotive management facilities at various locations along our network. HDC employees coordinate moves of
locomotives and trains, manage traffic and train crews on our network, and coordinate interchanges with other railroads. Over 900 employees currently work on-site in the facility. In the event of a disruption of operations at HDC due to a cyber
attack, flooding or severe weather or other event, we maintain the capability to conduct critical operations at back-up facilities in different locations.       RAIL FACILITIES       In addition to our track structure, we operate numerous facilities, including
terminals for intermodal and other freight; rail yards for train-building (classification yards), switching, storage-in-transit (the temporary storage of customer goods in rail cars prior to shipment) and other activities; offices to administer and
manage our operations; dispatching centers to direct traffic on our rail network; crew quarters to house train crews along our network; and shops and other facilities for fueling, maintenance, and repair of locomotives and repair and maintenance of
rail cars and other equipment. The following tables include the major yards and terminals on our system:       
 
         14   

Table of Contents  

RAIL EQUIPMENT       Our equipment includes owned and leased locomotives and rail cars; heavy maintenance equipment and machinery; other equipment and tools in our shops, offices, and facilities; and vehicles for maintenance,
transportation of crews, and other activities. As of December 31, 2012, we owned or leased the following units of equipment:       
     CAPITAL EXPENDITURES       Our rail network requires significant annual capital investments for replacement, improvement, and expansion. These investments enhance safety, support the transportation needs of our customers, and improve our
operational efficiency. Additionally, we add new locomotives and freight cars to our fleet to replace older, less efficient equipment, to support growth and customer demand, and to reduce our impact on the environment through the acquisition of more
fuel efficient and low-emission locomotives.       2012 Capital Expenditures    During 2012, we made capital investments totaling
$3.7 billion. (See the capital expenditures table in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financial Condition, Item 7.)   
         15   

Table of Contents  

    2013 Capital Expenditures    In 2013, we expect to make capital investments of
approximately $3.6 billion, including expenditures for PTC of approximately $450 million. We may revise our 2013 capital plan if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these
investments. (See discussion of our 2013 capital plan in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   2013 Outlook, Item 7.)       OTHER        Equipment Encumbrances    Equipment with a carrying value of approximately
$2.9 billion at both December 31, 2012 and 2011 served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment.   
  As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying
indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the
mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.   
   Environmental Matters    Certain of our properties are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the
protection of the environment. (See discussion of environmental issues in Business   Governmental and Environmental Regulation, Item 1, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.)         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings     
  From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and litigation that occur in connection with our business. We routinely assess our
liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest available information and, when necessary, we seek input from our third-party advisors when making these assessments. Consistent with SEC rules and requirements, we
describe below material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business), material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities, other proceedings arising under federal, state, or
local environmental laws and regulations (including governmental proceedings involving potential fines, penalties, or other monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000), and such other pending matters that we may determine to be appropriate.
      ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS       On
January 14, 2013, the Illinois Attorney General s Office notified UPRR that it will seek a penalty against the Railroad for environmental conditions caused by its predecessor at a former locomotive fueling facility in South Pekin,
Illinois. This former CNW facility discontinued fueling operations in the early 1980s. Subsequent environmental investigation revealed evidence of fuel releases to soil and groundwater. In January 2007, the State rejected UPRR s proposed
compliance commitment agreement and responded with a notice of intent to pursue legal action. UPRR continued to perform remedial investigations under the supervision of the Illinois EPA. In June 2012, the Illinois EPA approved UPRR s proposed
remedial action plan for the contaminated groundwater. Although no further action is required for the contamination, the State is now seeking to recover a penalty. The State has offered to settle the matter prior to litigation for payment of a
$240,000 penalty. If we are unable to reach an agreement, the state will pursue legal action for a penalty, which we expect will exceed $100,000.      We received notices from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are or may be liable under federal or state environmental laws for remediation costs at various sites throughout the U.S.,
including sites on the Superfund National Priorities List or state superfund lists. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings and suits because of the number of potentially responsible parties involved, the degree of contamination
by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

   Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set
forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.       OTHER MATTERS        Antitrust Litigation    As we reported in our Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, 20 small rail shippers (many of whom are represented by the same law firms) filed virtually identical antitrust lawsuits in various federal district courts against us and four other Class I
railroads in the U.S. (one railroad was eventually dropped from the lawsuit). The original plaintiff filed the first of these claims in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey on May 14, 2007, and the additional plaintiffs filed claims in
district courts in various states, including Florida, Illinois, Alabama, Pennsylvania, and the District of Columbia. These suits allege that the named railroads engaged in price-fixing by establishing common fuel surcharges for certain rail traffic.
        We received additional complaints following the initial claim, increasing the total number of complaints to 30. In addition to
suits filed by direct purchasers of rail transportation, a few of the suits involved plaintiffs alleging that they are or were indirect purchasers of rail transportation and seeking to represent a purported class of indirect purchasers of rail
transportation that paid fuel surcharges. These complaints added allegations under state antitrust and consumer protection laws. On November 6, 2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered that all of the rail fuel surcharge
cases be transferred to Judge Paul Friedman of the U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. Subsequently, the direct purchaser plaintiffs and the indirect purchaser plaintiffs filed
Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaints against UPRR and three other Class I railroads.      One additional shipper filed a separate
antitrust suit during 2008. Subsequently, the shipper voluntarily dismissed the action without prejudice.      On October 10, 2008,
Judge Friedman heard oral arguments with respect to the defendant railroads  motions to dismiss. In a ruling on November 7, 2008, Judge Friedman denied the motion with respect to the direct purchasers  complaint, and pretrial
proceedings are underway in that case, the status of which is described below. On December 31, 2008, Judge Friedman dismissed the complaints of the indirect purchasers based upon state antitrust, consumer protection, and unjust enrichment laws.
He also ruled, however, that these plaintiffs could proceed with their claim for injunctive relief under the federal antitrust laws, which is identical to a claim by the direct purchaser plaintiffs. The indirect purchasers appealed Judge
Friedman s ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed Judge Friedman s ruling dismissing the indirect purchasers  claims
based on various state laws.      With respect to the direct purchasers  complaint, Judge Friedman conducted a two-day hearing on
October 6 and 7, 2010, on the class certification issue and the railroad defendants  motion to exclude evidence of interline communications. On April 7, 2011, Judge Friedman issued an order deferring any decision on class
certification until the Supreme Court issued its decision in the Wal-Mart employment discrimination case.      On June 21, 2012, Judge
Friedman issued his decision certifying a class of plaintiffs to be represented by the eight named plaintiffs. The class includes all shippers that paid a rate-based fuel surcharge to any one of the defendant railroads for rate-unregulated rail
transportation from July 1, 2003 through December 1, 2008. This is a procedural ruling, which does not affirm any of the claims asserted by the plaintiffs and does not affect the ability of the railroad defendants to disprove the
allegations made by the plaintiffs. On July 5, 2012, the defendant railroads filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia requesting that the court review the class certification ruling. On August 28, 2012,
a panel of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia referred the petition to a merits panel of the court to address the issues in the petition and to address whether the district court properly granted class certification.   
  We deny the allegations that our fuel surcharge programs violate the antitrust laws or any other laws. We believe that these lawsuits are without
merit, and we will vigorously defend our actions. Therefore, we currently believe that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on any of our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

      Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures     
  Not applicable.          Executive
Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries        The Board of Directors typically elects and
designates our executive officers on an annual basis at the board meeting held in conjunction with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and they hold office until their successors are elected. Executive officers also may be elected and designated
throughout the year, as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. There are no family relationships among the officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. The
following table sets forth certain information current as of February 8, 2013, relating to the executive officers.       

Name   
      
    Position   
      
    Age   
      
    Business Experience During Past Five Years    

James R. Young   
      
    Chairman of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  60  
      
  [1]   

John J. Koraleski   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  62  
      
  [2]   

Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
      
    Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  55  
      
  Current Position   

Diane K. Duren   
      
    Executive Vice President of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  53  
      
  [3]   

Barbara W. Schaefer   
      
    Senior Vice President   Human Resources and Secretary of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  59  
      
  [4]   

Gayla L. Thal   
      
    Senior Vice President   Law and General Counsel of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  56  
      
  [5]   

Jeffrey P. Totusek   
      
    Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Railroad   
      
  54  
      
  Current Position   

Lance M. Fritz   
      
    Executive Vice President   Operations of the Railroad   
      
  50  
      
  [6]   

Eric L. Butler   
      
    Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad   
      
  52  
      
  [7]   

[1]   
     On March 2, 2012, Mr. Young stepped down from his duties as President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad due to a health
condition. He remains Chairman of the Board.           

[2]   
     Mr. Koraleski was elected Chief Executive Officer and President of UPC and the Railroad effective March 2, 2012. He previously was Executive Vice
President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad effective March 1, 1999.           

[3]   
     Ms. Duren was elected to her current position effective October 1, 2012. She previously was Vice President and General Manager   Chemicals
effective August 1, 2006. In addition, Ms. Duren was elected Corporate Secretary, which will become effective March 1, 2013, upon Ms. Schaefer s retirement.       

[4]   
     Ms. Schaefer is retiring from UPC and the Railroad effective March 1, 2013.       

[5]   
     Ms. Thal was elected to her current position effective March 15, 2012. She previously was Vice President   Law and Chief Compliance Officer
effective December 1, 2005.           

[6]   
     Mr. Fritz was elected to his current position effective September 1, 2010. He previously was Vice President   Operations of the Railroad,
effective January 1, 2010. Mr. Fritz previously served as Vice President   Labor Relations effective March 1, 2008.           

[7]   
     Mr. Butler was elected to his current position effective March 15, 2012. He previously was Vice President and General Manager   Industrial
Products effective April 14, 2005.       
         18   

Table of Contents  

       PART II     
     Item 5.  Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities        Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP . The
following table presents the dividends declared and the high and low prices of our common stock for each of the indicated quarters.       
    At February 1, 2013, there were 469,298,732 shares of common stock outstanding and 32,519 common shareholders
of record. On that date, the closing price of the common stock on the NYSE was $133.96. We have paid dividends to our common shareholders during each of the past 113 years. We declared dividends totaling $1,180 million in 2012 and $938 million in
2011. On November 15, 2012, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share, payable beginning on January 2, 2013, to shareholders of record on November 30, 2012. We are subject to certain restrictions regarding retained
earnings with respect to the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends increased to $15.1 billion at December 31, 2012, from $13.8 billion at December 31, 2011. (See discussion
of this restriction in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources, Item 7.) We do not believe the restriction on retained earnings will affect our ability to
pay dividends, and we currently expect to pay dividends in 2013.       Comparison Over One- and Three-Year Periods    The
following table presents the cumulative total shareholder returns, assuming reinvestment of dividends, over one- and three-year periods for the Corporation (UNP), a peer group index (comprised of CSX Corporation and Norfolk Southern Corporation),
the Dow Jones Transportation Index (DJ Trans), and the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index (S P 500).       
 
         19   

Table of Contents  

    Five-Year Performance Comparison    The following graph provides an indicator of cumulative
total shareholder returns for the Corporation as compared to the peer group index (described above), the DJ Trans, and the S P 500. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the common stock of Union Pacific Corporation and each index on
December 31, 2007 and that all dividends were reinvested.         

Purchases of Equity Securities    During 2012, we repurchased 13,804,709 shares of our common stock
at an average price of $115.33. The following table presents common stock repurchases during each month for the fourth quarter of 2012:       

[a]   
     Total number of shares purchased during the quarter includes approximately 105,978 shares delivered or attested to UPC by employees to pay stock option
exercise prices, satisfy excess tax withholding obligations for stock option exercises or vesting of retention units, and pay withholding obligations for vesting of retention shares.       

[b]   
     On April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 40 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2014. These
repurchases may be made on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions.       
         20   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.  Selected Financial Data     
  The following table presents as of, and for the years ended, December 31, our selected financial data for each of the last five years. The
selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and with the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. The
information below is not necessarily indicative of future financial condition or results of operations.       

[a]   
     Includes fuel surcharge revenue of $2.6 billion, $2.2 billion, $1.2 billion, $0.6 billion, and $2.3 billion for 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008,
respectively, which partially offsets increased operating expenses for fuel. Fuel surcharge revenue is not comparable from year to year due to implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs in each respective year. (See further
discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Operating Revenues, Item 7.)       

[b]   
     Operating ratio is defined as operating expenses divided by operating revenues.       

[c]   
     Debt to capital is determined as follows: total debt divided by total debt plus common shareholders  equity.       

[d]   
     Return on average common shareholders  equity is determined as follows: Net income divided by average common shareholders  equity.
      
         21   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations        The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and
applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this
Item 7.      The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is
analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network.   
   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY        2012 Results    

Safety    Our employee safety results continued to improve in 2012. The employee injury incident rate per 200,000 employee hours declined 9% from
2011, to a new record low. These results reflect employee training, the move to standard work, and extensive efforts to identify and eliminate risk. Our use of technologies such as laser, ultrasound, and acoustic vibration monitoring, which help
identify potential rail, wheel and axle failures before they occur contributed to the reduction of our equipment incident rate to 9.38 per million train miles, another best ever result. With respect to public safety, we closed 237 grade
crossings in 2012 to reduce our exposure to incidents and continued use of video cameras on our locomotives to analyze public safety incidents. We now have camera-equipped locomotives in the lead position on over 97% of our through-freight trains.
Despite our efforts during 2012, the rate of grade crossing incidents per million train miles increased 13% from 2011. Overall, our 2012 safety results reflect our structured approach to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our
customers and the public.          

Financial Performance    We produced another record-setting year in 2012, generating operating income of $6.7 billion, an 18% increase over 2011.
Despite flat volume, core pricing gains of 4.5% and higher fuel surcharge recoveries more than offset inflation and higher depreciation expense to drive the increase. Our operating ratio for 2012 of 67.8% was an all-time best, improving from last
year s operating ratio of 70.7%. Net income of $3.9 billion surpassed our previous milestone set in 2011, translating into earnings of $8.27 per diluted share for 2012.      

Freight Revenues    Our freight revenues grew 6% year-over-year to $19.7 billion. Freight revenues for four of the six commodity groups increased
despite flat volume. Volume declines in Coal and Agricultural Products offset double digit volume increases in Automotive and Chemicals. Core pricing gains and higher fuel surcharges drove the growth in freight revenue in 2012 compared to 2011. Fuel
surcharges increased due to higher fuel prices, the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months) and new fuel surcharge provisions in renegotiated contracts.      

Network Operations    In 2012, our business mix changed significantly both geographically and by commodity. Nevertheless, by adjusting resources to
match market and network requirements, we continued operating an efficient and fluid network. As reported to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), average train speed increased 4% in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting more efficient operations
and relatively mild weather conditions compared to 2011, which included severe winter weather, flooding, and extreme heat and drought that affected various parts of our network during the year. Average terminal dwell time remained flat despite a
shift in business mix to more manifest traffic, which requires more switching, resulting in more terminal dwell time. Average rail car inventory decreased slightly, reflecting productivity improvements and ongoing initiatives designed to reduce the
number of cars in our fleet. These operational improvements resulted in a record customer satisfaction index in 2012.          

Fuel Prices    Despite consistent average crude oil barrel prices in 2011 and 2012, our price per gallon of diesel fuel consumed increased 3% due
to higher crude oil to diesel conversion spreads. The higher spreads increased operating expenses by $105 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume). A 2% decline in gross-ton miles partially offset the higher expenses. Our fuel
consumption rate did not change in 2012 from the rate in 2011.      
         22   

Table of Contents  

Free Cash Flow    Cash generated by operating activities totaled $6.2 billion, reduced by $3.6 billion for cash used in investing activities and a
37% increase in dividends paid, yielding free cash flow of $1.4 billion. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities (adjusted for the reclassification of our receivables securitization facility), less cash used in investing
activities and dividends paid.         Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting
principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and
investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating
activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):        

[a]   
     Effective January 1, 2010, a new accounting standard required us to account for receivables transferred under our receivables securitization facility
as secured borrowings in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and as financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The receivables securitization facility is included in our free cash flow calculation to adjust cash
provided by operating activities as though our receivables securitization facility had been accounted for under the new accounting standard for all periods presented.           2013 Outlook        

Safety    Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the communities we serve. We will continue using a
multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, training and employee engagement, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture throughout our
operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. Derailment prevention and the reduction of grade crossing incidents are critical aspects of our safety programs. We will continue our efforts
to increase rail defect detection; improve or close crossings; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), various industry programs and
local community activities across our network.          

Network Operations    We will continue focusing on our six critical initiatives to improve safety, service and productivity during 2013. We are
seeing solid contributions from reducing variability, continuous improvements, and standard work. Resource agility allows us to respond quickly to changing market conditions and network disruptions from weather or other events. The Railroad
continues to benefit from capital investments that allow us to build capacity for growth and harden our infrastructure to reduce failure.          

Fuel Prices    Uncertainty about the economy makes projections of fuel prices difficult. We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year,
as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we will continue seeking cost recovery from our customers through
our fuel surcharge programs and expanding our fuel conservation efforts.          

Capital Plan    In 2013, we plan to make total capital investments of approximately $3.6 billion, including expenditures for Positive Train Control
(PTC), which may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources  
Capital Plan.)      
         23   

Table of Contents  

Positive Train Control    In response to a legislative mandate to implement PTC, we expect to spend approximately $450 million during 2013 on
developing and deploying PTC. We currently estimate that PTC, in accordance with implementing rules issued by the Federal Rail Administration (FRA), will cost us approximately $2 billion by the end of the project. This includes costs for installing
the new system along our tracks, upgrading locomotives to work with the new system, and adding digital data communication equipment to integrate the components of the system.      

Financial Expectations    We are cautious about the economic environment but if industrial production grows approximately 2% as projected, volume
should exceed 2012 levels. Even with no volume growth, we expect earnings to exceed 2012 earnings, generated by real core pricing gains, on-going network improvements and operational productivity initiatives. We also expect that a new bonus
depreciation program under federal tax laws will positively impact cash flows in 2013.          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    
   Operating Revenues        
    We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight
revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes
or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as reductions to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues as shipments move from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues
between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.      Other
revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as
switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.      Freight revenues from four of
our six commodity groups increased during 2012 compared to 2011. Revenues from coal and agricultural products declined during the year. Our franchise diversity allowed us to take advantage of growth from shale-related markets (crude oil, frac sand
and pipe) and strong automotive manufacturing, which offset volume declines from coal and agricultural products. ARC increased 7%, driven by core pricing gains and higher fuel cost recoveries. Improved fuel recovery provisions and higher fuel
prices, including the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months), combined to increase revenues from fuel surcharges.      Freight revenues for all six commodity groups increased during 2011 compared to 2010, while volume increased in all commodity groups except intermodal. Increased demand in many market sectors, with particularly
strong growth in chemicals, industrial products, and automotive shipments for the year, generated the increases. ARC increased 12%, driven by higher fuel cost recoveries and core pricing gains. Fuel cost recoveries include fuel surcharge revenue and
the impact of resetting the base fuel price for certain traffic. Higher fuel prices, volume growth, and new fuel surcharge provisions in renegotiated contracts all combined to increase revenues from fuel surcharges.   
  Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated freight revenues of $2.6
billion, $2.2 billion, and $1.2 billion in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Ongoing rising fuel prices and increased fuel surcharge coverage drove the increases. Additionally, fuel surcharge revenue is not entirely comparable to prior periods as
we continue to convert portions of our non-regulated traffic to mileage-based fuel surcharge programs.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

   In 2012, other revenues increased from 2011 due primarily to higher revenues at our subsidiaries that
broker intermodal and automotive services. Assessorial revenues also increased in 2012 due to container revenue related to an increase in intermodal shipments.      In 2011, other revenues increased from 2010 due primarily to higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and automotive services.   
  The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:   

[a]   
     Each intermodal container or trailer equals one carload.             
         25   

Table of Contents  

Agricultural Products    Lower volume more than offset core pricing gains and increased fuel surcharges as agricultural freight revenue decreased in 2012 versus
2011. Weak export demand for U.S. wheat drove a 19% decrease in wheat shipments year over year, as the foreign wheat market improved significantly from the weather affected crop in 2011. In addition, corn shipments declined 11% for the year, with
more significant declines in the fourth quarter, reflecting the impact of the severe drought across the U.S. Lower gasoline demand, reduced exports and higher corn prices decreased ethanol shipments during the second half of the year. Growth in
imported beer from Mexico and a strong domestic harvest of fresh potatoes partially offset these declines.   
      
     2012 Agricultural Carloads   

Fuel surcharges, price improvements and modest volume growth increased agricultural freight revenue  in 2011 versus 2010. The federal mandate for higher
levels of ethanol in the nation s fuel supply and new business increased shipments of ethanol by 10% in 2011 versus 2010. Strong export demand for U.S. wheat via Gulf ports in the first half of 2011 was the primary driver of a 6% increase in
wheat and food grains shipments for 2011 compared to 2010, despite a 19% decrease in shipments in the second half of 2011 when U.S. grain exports declined. Poor wheat production in some foreign markets drove the export demand during the first six
months of the year.    

Automotive    Increased shipments of finished vehicles and automotive parts along with core pricing gains and higher
fuel surcharges improved automotive freight revenue from 2011 levels. Higher production and sales levels drove the volume growth. In addition, 2012 shipments compared favorably to 2011 due to lower shipments of international vehicles in 2011
following the disaster in Japan.         Higher volume, core
pricing gains and fuel surcharges improved automotive freight revenue in 2011, from 2010 levels. Although higher production and sales levels during 2011 contributed to volume growth, the disaster in Japan partially offset the increase in shipments.
The disruption caused by this event reduced parts shipments in the second quarter and shipments of international vehicles in the second and third quarters.  Finished  autos  shipments  were up 7% in 2011 from 2010, aided by a 14%
increase in the fourth quarter as the U.S. light-vehicle sales rate was the highest since the second quarter of 2008.   
      
     2012 Automotive Carloads   

Chemicals    Higher volume, core price improvements and fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2012. Shipments of crude oil primarily from
the Bakken, Permian and Eagle Ford Shale formations to the Gulf area increased over three fold, driving the improvement in chemicals shipments. In addition, plastics and industrial chemicals shipments increased as low natural gas prices have made
U.S. chemicals more cost competitive globally. Declines in potash due to temporary shutdowns and reduced production at several mines partially offset the increases in chemical shipments during the year.   
      
     2012 Chemicals Carloads   

26   

Table of Contents  

   Volume gains, fuel surcharges and price improvements increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2011
versus 2010. In mid-2010, we began moving crude oil shipments from the Bakken formation in North Dakota to facilities in Louisiana. This new business, along with shipments from the Eagle Ford shale formation in south Texas, contributed to a 37%
increase in shipments of petroleum products during 2011. Strong domestic demand and robust spring planting increased fertilizer shipments by 9% versus 2010. Additionally, improving market conditions increased demand for industrial chemicals during
2011, driving volume levels up versus 2010.       

Coal    Lower volume, partially offset by core pricing gains and fuel surcharge recoveries reduced freight revenue from coal shipments in 2012 compared to 2011.
Shipments of coal from the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) mines decreased 15% from 2011. Above average coal stockpiles due to an unseasonably warm winter and low natural gas prices, which caused some displacement of coal in electricity
production, led to the volume declines. In addition, the loss of two contracts to a competitor contributed to lower volumes from the SPRB. Coal shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines increased 2% versus 2011. Increased export shipments of
Colorado and Utah coal in 2012 offset the domestic declines due to higher stockpiles and low natural gas prices.   
      
     2012 Coal Carloads       

Core pricing gains, higher fuel surcharges, and increased volume grew coal freight revenue in 2011 versus 2010
levels. Shipments of coal from the SPRB were up 5% in 2011 compared to 2010, reflecting new business to Wisconsin facilities and the start-up of a new power plant near Waco, Texas. Completion of a year-long equipment relocation process at one of the
mines in the third quarter of 2011 and minimal production problems elsewhere improved shipments from Colorado and Utah by 3% in 2011 versus 2010. These gains, along with increased exports to Europe and Asia, offset first half production problems and
weak demand from eastern coal utilities.       

Industrial Products    Core pricing improvement, higher volume and additional fuel surcharges increased freight revenue from industrial products in 2012 versus
2011. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand), grew in response to increased horizontal drilling activity for energy products. More construction activity during a relatively mild winter led to higher demand for shipments of lumber,
cement and stone compared to 2011. The growth in housing starts throughout 2012 also increased lumber shipments, up 12% from 2011. Steel shipments finished slightly down from 2011 levels as lower demand for export scrap and mine production issues in
the second half of the year offset increases in the first half due to higher demand for steel coils and plate for pipe and auto production.   
      
     2012 Industrial Products Carloads   

Increased volume, fuel surcharges, and core pricing improvement increased freight revenue from industrial products  in  2011 versus  2010.
 Shipments  of  non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand) grew in response to a dramatic rise in horizontal drilling activity for natural gas and oil, while steel shipments increased due to higher demand for steel coils and plate
for automotive and pipe production. In addition, an increase in iron ore export business to China also drove volume growth. Conversely, lower commercial construction activity reduced stone, sand and gravel shipments in 2011 compared to
2010.    
 
         27   

Table of Contents  

Intermodal    Higher fuel surcharges, including improved fuel recovery provisions, core pricing gains and volume growth
increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2012. Volume levels from international traffic remained flat year-over-year as the loss of a customer contract in the first half of the year offset modest West Coast import growth. Domestic
traffic increased 3% versus 2011 due to better market conditions and continued conversion of traffic from truck to rail.      
  Fuel surcharge gains, including better contract provisions for fuel cost recovery, and pricing improvements, partially offset by lower volume,
increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2011 compared to 2010. Volume from international   traffic  decreased  5%  in  2011  versus  2010,   
      
     2012 Intermodal Carloads   

driven by softer economic conditions, reflected in a muted international peak shipping season, which usually starts in the third quarter, and the loss of a
customer contract. Conversely, conversions from truck to rail and recovering consumer demand offset competition for domestic shipments, resulting in a 2% volume increase in domestic shipments during 2011.    
     Mexico Business    Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico.
Revenue from Mexico business increased 8% to $1.9 billion in 2012 versus 2011. Volume levels for four of the six commodity groups (industrial products and agricultural products declined), were up 5% in aggregate versus 2011, with particularly strong
growth in automotive and intermodal shipments.      Revenue from Mexico business increased 16% to $1.8 billion in 2011 versus 2010. Volume
levels increased 9% in aggregate versus 2010, with particularly strong growth in automotive and industrial products. Coal was the one commodity group that declined as one of our customers conducted a supplier contract renewal during the year,
shifting transportation modes from rail to truck during the process.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Expenses        

Operating expenses increased $348 million in 2012 versus 2011. Depreciation, wage and benefit inflation, higher fuel prices and
volume-related trucking services purchased by our logistics subsidiaries, contributed to higher expenses during the year. Efficiency gains, volume related fuel savings (2% fewer gallons of fuel consumed) and $38 million of weather related expenses
in 2011, which favorably affects the comparison, partially offset the cost increase.         Operating expenses increased $1.8 billion in 2011 versus 2010. Our fuel price per gallon rose 36% during 2011, accounting for $922 million of the increase. Wage and benefit inflation, volume-related costs,
depreciation, and property taxes also contributed to higher expenses. Expenses increased $20 million for costs related to the flooding in the Midwest and $18 million due to the impact of severe heat and   
      
     2012 Operating Expenses   

drought in the South, primarily Texas. Cost savings from productivity improvements and better resource utilization partially offset these increases. A $45
million one-time payment relating to a transaction with CSX Intermodal, Inc (CSXI) increased operating expenses during the first quarter of 2010, which favorably affects the comparison of operating expenses in 2011 to those in
2010.    
     Compensation and Benefits    Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare
costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. Expenses in 2012 were essentially flat versus 2011 as operational improvements and cost reductions offset general wage and benefit inflation and higher pension and other
postretirement benefits. In addition, weather related costs increased these expenses in 2011.      A combination of general wage and benefit
inflation, volume-related expenses, higher training costs associated with new hires, additional crew costs due to speed restrictions caused by the Midwest flooding and heat and drought in the South, and higher pension expense drove the increase
during 2011 compared to 2010.       Fuel    Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and
heavy equipment. Higher locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.22 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2012, compared to $3.12 in 2011, increased expenses by $105 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles,
decreased 2% in 2012 versus 2011, driving expense down. The fuel consumption rate was flat year-over-year.      Higher locomotive diesel
fuel prices, which averaged $3.12 (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2011, compared to $2.29 per gallon in 2010, increased expenses by $922 million. In addition, higher gasoline prices for highway and non-highway vehicles also increased
year-over-year. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, increased 5% in 2011 versus 2010, driving expense up by $122 million.   
   Purchased Services and Materials    Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside
contractors and other service providers (including equipment   
         29   

Table of Contents  

maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of
operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Expenses
for contract services increased $103 million in 2012 versus 2011, primarily due to increased demand for transportation services purchased by our logistics subsidiaries for their customers and additional costs for repair and maintenance of
locomotives and freight cars.      Expenses for contract services increased $106 million in 2011 versus 2010, driven by volume-related
external transportation services incurred by our subsidiaries, and various other types of contractual services, including flood-related repairs, mitigation and improvements. Volume-related crew transportation and lodging costs, as well as expenses
associated with jointly owned operating facilities, also increased costs compared to 2010. In addition, an increase in locomotive maintenance materials used to prepare a portion of our locomotive fleet for return to active service due to increased
volume and additional capacity for weather related issues and warranty expirations increased expenses in 2011.       Depreciation 
  The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting ongoing capital spending, increased depreciation expense in 2012 compared to 2011.
     A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting ongoing capital spending, increased depreciation expense in 2011 compared to 2010. Higher
depreciation rates for rail and other track material also contributed to the increase. The higher rates, which became effective January 1, 2011, resulted primarily from increased track usage (based on higher gross ton-miles in 2010).
      Equipment and Other Rents    Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for
freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses. Increased automotive and intermodal shipments, partially offset by improved car-cycle times, drove an
increase in our short-term freight car rental expense in 2012. Conversely, lower locomotive lease expense partially offset the higher freight car rental expense.      Costs increased in 2011 versus 2010 as higher short-term freight car rental expense and container lease expense offset lower freight car and locomotive lease expense.   
   Other    Other expenses include personal injury, freight and property damage, destruction of equipment, insurance, environmental, bad
debt, state and local taxes, utilities, telephone and cellular, employee travel, computer software, and other general expenses. Other costs in 2012 were slightly higher than 2011 primarily due to higher property taxes. Despite continual improvement
in our safety experience and lower estimated annual costs, personal injury expense increased in 2012 compared to 2011, as the liability reduction resulting from historical claim experience was less than the reduction in 2011.   
  Higher property taxes, casualty costs associated with destroyed equipment, damaged freight and property and environmental costs increased other
costs in 2011 compared to 2010. A one-time payment of $45 million in the first quarter of 2010 related to a transaction with CSXI and continued improvement in our safety performance and lower estimated liability for personal injury, which reduced
our personal injury expense year-over-year, partially offset increases in other costs.       Non-Operating Items    
   
     Other Income    Other income decreased in 2012 versus 2011 due to lower gains from real estate sales and
higher environmental costs associated with non-operating properties, partially offset by an interest payment from a tax refund.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

   Other income increased in 2011 versus 2010 due to higher gains from real estate sales, lower
environmental costs associated with non-operating properties and the comparative impact of premiums paid for early redemption of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2010.       Interest Expense    Interest expense decreased in 2012 versus 2011 reflecting a lower effective interest rate in 2012 of 6.0% versus 6.2% in 2011 as the debt level did not materially change in 2012.
     Interest expense decreased in 2011 versus 2010 due to a lower weighted-average debt level of $9.2 billion versus $9.7 billion. The
effective interest rate was 6.2% in both 2011 and 2010.       Income Taxes    Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2012
compared to 2011. Our effective tax rate for 2012 was relatively flat at 37.6% compared to 37.5% in 2011.      Income taxes were higher in
2011 compared to 2010, primarily driven by higher pre-tax income. Our effective tax rate remained relatively flat at 37.5% in 2011 compared to 37.3% in 2010.       OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS       We report key performance measures
weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), including carloads, average daily inventory of freight cars on our system, average train speed, and average terminal dwell time. We provide this data on our website at
www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.       Operating/Performance Statistics    
  Railroad performance measures reported to the AAR, as well as other performance measures, are included in the table below:   
   
     Average Train Speed    Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on
our main lines between terminals. Average train speed, as reported to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), increased 4% in 2012 versus 2011. Efficient operations and relatively mild weather conditions during the year compared favorably to
2011, during which severe winter weather, flooding, and extreme heat and drought affected various parts of our network. We continued operating a fluid and efficient network while handling essentially the same volume and adjusting operations to
accommodate increased capital project work on our network compared to 2011. The extreme weather challenges in addition to increased carloadings and traffic mix changes, led to a 2% decrease in average train speed in 2011 compared to 2010.
      Average Terminal Dwell Time    Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals.
Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time remained flat in 2012 compared to 2011, despite a shift in traffic mix to more manifest shipments, which require more switching at terminals.
Average terminal dwell time increased 3% in 2011 compared to 2010. Additional volume, weather challenges, track replacement programs, and a shift of traffic mix to more manifest shipments, which require additional terminal processing, all
contributed to the increase.       Average Rail Car Inventory    Average rail car inventory is the daily average number of rail
cars on our lines, including rail cars in storage. Lower average rail car inventory reduces congestion in our yards and sidings, which increases train speed, reduces average terminal dwell time, and improves rail car utilization. Despite a shift in
traffic mix from coal to shale-related and automotive shipments with longer   
         31   

Table of Contents  

cycle times, productivity improvements reduced average rail car inventory by 1% in 2012 compared to 2011. Average rail car inventory decreased slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, as we continued
to adjust the size of our freight car fleet.       Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles    Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying
the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles declined 2% in 2012 compared to 2011, while revenue
ton-miles decreased 4% and carloads remained relatively flat. Changes in commodity mix drove the year-over-year variances between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads. Gross and revenue-ton-miles increased 5% in 2011 compared to 2010,
driven by a 3% increase in carloads and mix changes to heavier commodity groups, notably a 5% increase in coal shipments.       Operating
Ratio    Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratio improved 2.9 points to a record low of 67.8% in 2012 versus 2011. Core pricing gains, improved fuel recovery provisions,
efficient operations and cost reductions more than offset the impact of inflationary pressures. Our operating ratio increased 0.1 points to 70.7% in 2011 versus 2010. Higher fuel prices, inflation and weather related costs, partially offset by core
pricing gains and productivity initiatives, drove the increase.       Employees    Employee levels increased 2% in 2012 versus
2011. Work related to the increase in capital investment, including positive train control, accounted for over half of the increase. Additionally, the shift in our traffic mix required more resources in the Southern region to support the growth in
shale-related shipments. Employee levels were up 5% in 2011 versus 2010, driven by a 3% increase in volume levels, a higher number of trainmen, engineers, and yard employees receiving training during the year, and increased work on capital projects.
      Customer Satisfaction Index    Our customer satisfaction survey asks customers to rate how satisfied they are with our
performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. We believe that improvement in survey results in 2012 generally reflects customer recognition of our service quality supported by
our capital investment program.       Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity    
   
     Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)    
   
    ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may
not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance
criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute   
         32   

Table of Contents  

for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity. The tables on the previous page provide
reconciliations from return on average common shareholders  equity to ROIC. Our 2012 ROIC improved 1.6 points compared to 2011, primarily as a result of higher earnings.       Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital        
    Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation
S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease
obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Operating leases were discounted using 6.0% and 6.2% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The
discount rate reflects our effective interest rate. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with our overall cost of capital. Adjusted
debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2012 debt to capital ratios
decreased as a result of a $1.3 billion increase in equity from December 31, 2011, driven by higher earnings.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
      As of December 31, 2012, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization
facility, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.8 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings
outstanding as of December 31, 2012. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2012. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $600 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $100
million as of December 31, 2012, and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year. The receivables securitization facility obligates us to maintain an investment grade bond rating. If our bond
rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due
to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to
have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our
revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The Company s $1.8 billion revolving credit facility is
intended to back Union Pacific s ability to issue commercial paper and is an emergency back-up source of liquidity. The Company has no current intentions of borrowing under this facility.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had a working capital surplus. This reflects a strong cash
position, which provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our
current liabilities.       
     Operating Activities       Higher net income in 2012 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2011, partially offset by lower tax benefits from bonus depreciation (as explained below) and payments for past wages based on
national labor negotiations settled earlier this year.      Higher net income and lower cash income tax payments in 2011 increased cash
provided by operating activities compared to 2010. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 provided for 100% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2011, and 50% bonus depreciation for
qualified investments made during 2012. As a result of the Act, the Company deferred a substantial portion of its 2011 income tax expense. This deferral decreased 2011 income tax payments, thereby contributing to the positive operating cash flow. In
future years, however, additional cash will be used to pay income taxes that were previously deferred. In addition, the adoption of a new accounting standard in January of 2010 changed the accounting treatment for our receivables securitization
facility from a sale of undivided interests (recorded as an operating activity) to a secured borrowing (recorded as a financing activity), which decreased cash provided by operating activities by $400 million in 2010.   
   Investing Activities       Higher capital
investments in 2012 drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2011. Included in capital investments in 2012 was $75 million for the early buyout of 165 locomotives under long-term operating and capital leases during the
first quarter of 2012, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market conditions.      Higher capital investments partially
offset by higher proceeds from asset sales in 2011 drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2010.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

   The tables below detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010:       
     Capital Plan    In 2013, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $3.6 billion, which
may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. We expect to use over 60% of our 2013 capital investments to replace and improve existing capital
assets. Among our major investment categories are replacing and improving track infrastructure; upgrading our locomotive and freight car fleet, including acquisition of 100 locomotives and 900 freight cars, primarily large covered hoppers, gondolas,
auto racks and refrigerated box cars; improving technology, including investing in PTC; and other capital projects. Additionally, we will continue increasing our network and terminal capacity; for example, to balance terminal capacity with more
mainline capacity from our track expansion in the Southern region, we are constructing a rail facility at Santa Teresa, New Mexico, that initially will include a run-through and fueling facility and an intermodal ramp.   
  We expect to fund our 2013 cash capital investments by using some or all of the following: cash generated from operations, proceeds from the sale
or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we expect will enhance the long-term
value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving
facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.       Financing
Activities       Cash used in financing activities increased in 2012 versus 2011. Dividend payments increased by $309 million, reflecting
our higher dividend rate, and common stock repurchases increased by $56 million. Our debt levels did not materially change from last year after a decline in debt levels from 2010. Therefore, less cash was used in 2012 for debt activity than in 2011.
     Cash used in financing activities increased in 2011 versus 2010. Higher dividend payments in 2011 of $837 million compared to $602
million in 2010, reflecting our increased dividend rate and the repurchase of $1.4 billion of our common stock, a $169 million increase from 2010 repurchases, drove the increase. We used less cash to reduce outstanding debt in 2011, which partially
offset this increase.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

    Credit Facilities    On December 31, 2012, we had $1.8 billion of credit available
under our revolving credit facility (the facility), which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2012. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the
facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt
ratings. The facility matures in 2015 under a four year term and requires the Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 (and at all times
during the year), we were in compliance with this covenant.      The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the
debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2012, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio
allowed us to carry up to $39.8 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $9.6 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the
debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other
than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.   
  During 2012, we issued and repaid commercial paper of $50 million. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our
revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the
facility.      At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we reclassified as long-term debt $100 million of debt due within one year that we intend
to refinance. This reclassification reflected our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis.       Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges       For each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011,
and 2010, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 10.4, 8.4, and 6.9, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of
distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the
calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.)       Common Shareholders  Equity    
   Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section
above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $15.1 billion and $13.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
  
         36   

Table of Contents  

    Share Repurchase Program       Effective April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million shares of our common stock by March 31, 2014, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of
December 31, 2012, we repurchased a total of $7.1 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs. The table below represents shares repurchased under the new repurchase program, except for the first quarter of
2011 which represent shares repurchased under the previous program.       
    Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all
repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in
treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.       Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New
Borrowings    Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no
immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt
securities at any time.      During 2012, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:   
   
    We used the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock
pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2012, we had remaining authority to issue up to $1.4 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.   
  On May 22, 2012, we borrowed $100 million under a 4-year-term loan (the loan). The loan has a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered
Rates, plus a spread, and is prepayable in whole or in part without a premium prior to maturity. The agreement documenting the loan has provisions similar to our revolving credit facility, including identical debt-to-net-worth covenant and change of
control provisions and similar customary default provisions. The agreement does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers, or any other provision that would require us to post collateral.   
  During the third and fourth quarters of 2012, we acquired 343 locomotives by exercising early buy-out rights in certain operating and capital lease
agreements. Following the acquisition of the locomotives, we sold them to financing parties and entered into capital lease financing agreements with these parties. We did not recognize any gains or losses as a result of these transactions. Capital
lease obligations totaling $286 million are reported in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt at December 31, 2012.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

    Debt Exchange    On June 23, 2011, we exchanged $857 million of various outstanding
notes and debentures due between 2013 and 2019 (Existing Notes) for $750 million of 4.163% notes (New Notes) due July 15, 2022, plus cash consideration of approximately $267 million and $17 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the
Existing Notes. In accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not
considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of
interest expense over the term of the New Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $6 million and were
included in interest expense during the three months ended June 30, 2011.      The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were
exchanged:       
     Debt Redemptions    On November 30, 2012, we redeemed all $450 million of our outstanding 5.45%
notes due January 31, 2013. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $4 million.      On April 28, 2012, we
redeemed all $100 million of our outstanding 5.70% Tooele County, Utah Hazardous Waste Treatment Revenue Bonds due November 1, 2026. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $2 million in the second quarter of 2012.
     On December 19, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012, and all $300 million of
our outstanding 6.125% notes due January 15, 2012. The redemptions resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $5 million.      On
March 22, 2010, we redeemed $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $16 million in the first quarter of 2010.   
  On November 1, 2010, we redeemed all $400 million of our outstanding 6.65% notes due January 15, 2011. The redemption resulted in a $5
million early extinguishment charge.       Receivables Securitization Facility    Under the receivables securitization facility,
the Railroad sells most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary. UPRI may subsequently transfer, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in
eligible accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to transfer undivided interests to investors under the facility was $600 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by
investors under the facility was $100 million at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $1.1 billion of accounts receivable at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. At both
December 31, 2012 and 2011, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $1.1 billion. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.     
  The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is
directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would not change as of
December 31, 2012. Should our   
         38   

Table of Contents  

credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to
discontinue the facility.      The Railroad collected approximately $20.1 billion and $18.8 billion of receivables during the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.      The
costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the
receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $3 million, $4 million and $6 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets, except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.   
  In July 2012, the receivables securitization facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.   
   Subsequent Event    On January 2, 2013, we transferred an additional $300 million in undivided interest to investors under the
receivables securitization facility, increasing the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors from $100 million to $400 million.   
   Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments       As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on
our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other
similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur
that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of
other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.      The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as
of December 31, 2012:       

[a]   
     Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,848 million and unamortized discount of $(365) million. Includes an interest component of $5,123 million.

[b]   
     Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate.       

[c]   
     Represents total obligations, including interest component of $593 million.       

[d]   
     Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, locomotives, ties, ballast, and rail; and
agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.       

[e]   
     Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years.

[f]   
     Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties,
as of December 31, 2012. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.       
         39   

Table of Contents  

[b]   
     $100 million of the receivables securitization facility was utilized at December 31, 2012, which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures in
July 2013.           

[c]   
     Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.       
   
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        Guarantees    At December 31, 2012, we were
contingently liable for $307 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $2 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of
business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to
satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.       OTHER MATTERS        Labor Agreements    Approximately 86% of our 45,928
full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. During the year, we concluded the most recent round of negotiations, which began in 2010, with the ratification of new agreements by several unions that continued negotiating
into 2012. All of the unions executed similar multi-year agreements that provide for higher employee cost sharing of employee health and welfare benefits and higher wages. The current agreements will remain in effect until renegotiated under
provisions of the Railway Labor Act. The next round of negotiations will begin in early 2015.       Inflation    Long periods of
inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be
substantially greater than historically reported amounts.       Derivative Financial Instruments    We may use derivative
financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We
formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge
effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse
movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We
manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had
we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

    Determination of Fair Value    We determine the fair values of our derivative financial
instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.   
   Sensitivity Analyses    The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates
could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.      At December 31, 2012, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 3.4% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2013 than our December 31, 2012
variable rate, which was approximately 1.1%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $3 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at
December 31, 2012.      Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a
hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2012, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2012. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate
debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.       Interest Rate
Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed
and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain
flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.   
  Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable
to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC; therefore, we do not record any
ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.       Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2012 and
2011, we had reductions of $1 million and $2 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had
no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.       Accounting Pronouncements    On January 1, 2012, we adopted 2011-05,
 Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income  (ASU 2011-05) which requires presentation of the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous statement or as two consecutive
statements and eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholders  equity. The standard does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income,
how such items are measured or when they must be reclassified to net income. Also, in December of 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-12,  Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of
Reclassification of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05  (ASU 2011-12). On February 5, 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts Reclassified
Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  ,  which adds additional disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. This ASU will be effective for the first interim reporting period in 2013.
      Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We
cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and
where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
  
         41   

Table of Contents  

consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.   
   Indemnities    Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can
range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the
probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under
these indemnity provisions.       Climate Change    Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and
financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of
our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.     
     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES       Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues,
expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,
Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements
may be material.       Personal Injury    The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is
charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs
compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are
injured at work.      Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value. Approximately 90% of the recorded liability is
related to asserted claims, and approximately 10% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2012. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle
these claims may range from approximately $334 million to $368 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in
litigation.      Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:       
 
         42   

Table of Contents  

   Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:   
   
     Asbestos    We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other
parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability
for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:       

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 22% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 78% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2012. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $139 million to $149 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.
     Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:   
   
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2012, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We
have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such
as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if
strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with
respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.   
         43   

Table of Contents  

    Environmental Costs    We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and
regulations. We have identified 284 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 32 sites that are the subject of actions taken by
the U.S. government, 17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may
include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.      When we
identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred.
We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. At
December 31, 2012, none of our environmental liability was discounted, while less than 1% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.0% at December 31, 2011.      Our environmental liability activity was as follows:       
    The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing
monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and
regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination
by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing
environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.       Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital
program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if
they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density
traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in
which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not
as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable   
         44   

Table of Contents  

asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.   
  We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at
least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:   

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic
corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2012, the estimated service lives of the
majority of this rail ranged from approximately 15 years to approximately 30 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation
studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.   
  Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other
factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets
may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.      Changes in
estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods  depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful
lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $58 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense
would increase by approximately $62 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in changes in depreciation rates for some asset classes. Based on these changes, depreciation expense will increase approximately 3% to 4% in 2013 versus
2012.      Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the
ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and
(ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of
the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service
lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the
amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.   
  For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the
retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is   
         45   

Table of Contents  

unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains
or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation
are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would
increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $340 million.      When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred
tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized,
based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2012 and 2011, there were no valuation allowances.   
  We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as
the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition
and measurement standards.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    We use an actuarial analysis to measure the
liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical
assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend rate.   
  We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:   

Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of
cash flows matches our plans  expected benefit payments.      

Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market
conditions.      

Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.      
  The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2012 and the estimated impact on
2012 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:       
 
         46   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for the years ended
December 31:       
    Our net periodic pension cost is expected to increase to approximately $111 million in 2013 from $89 million in
2012. The increase is driven mainly by a decrease in the discount rate to 3.78%, Our net periodic OPEB expense is expected to increase to approximately $15 million in 2013 from $13 million in 2012. The increase in our net periodic OPEB cost is
primarily driven by a decrease in the discount rate to 3.48%.         CAUTIONARY INFORMATION    
  Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information
included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and
information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the CEO s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption  2013 Capital Expenditures  in Item 2 of Part I; statements
regarding dividends in Item  and statements and information set forth under the captions  2013 Outlook  and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  in this Item 7, and (B) any other statements or information in this
report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions,
expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the
effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation
plans (including statements set forth in Item 2 as to expectations related to our planned capital expenditures); expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities
or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs,
commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning
matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as  believes,   expects,   may,   should,   would, 
 will,   intends,   plans,   estimates,   anticipates,   projects  and similar words, phrases or expressions.      Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be
achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and
information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and,
therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this
report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise
necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.   
  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to
reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking   
         47   

Table of Contents  

statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.   
     Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk     
  Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations   Other Matters, Item 7.      ****************************************   
         48   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

49   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in common shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed in the Table of Contents at Part IV, Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Corporation s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such
consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2012, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 8, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion
on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.         

Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 8, 2013   
         50   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
    [a] Net of deferred taxes of $82 million, $199 million, and $57 million during 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.    
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         51   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         52   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

[a]   
     AOCI = Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (Note 9)           The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         54   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies       For purposes of this report, unless the
context otherwise requires, all references herein to the  Corporation ,  UPC ,  we ,  us , and  our  mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company,
which will be separately referred to herein as  UPRR  or the  Railroad .   
    1. Nature of Operations    
    Operations and Segmentation    We are a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. Our network includes 31,868 route
miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We own 26,020 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. We serve
the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import
traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders.      The Railroad, along with its
subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide and review revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail
network. The following table provides freight revenue by commodity group:       
    Although our revenues are principally derived from customers domiciled in the U.S., the ultimate points of
origination or destination for some products transported by us are outside the U.S. Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Included in the above table are revenues from our Mexico business which amounted to
$1.9 billion in 2012, $1.8 billion in 2011, and $1.6 billion in 2010.       Basis of Presentation    The Consolidated Financial
Statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) as codified in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).      
    2. Significant Accounting Policies    
    Principles of Consolidation    The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Union Pacific
Corporation and all of its subsidiaries. Investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned) are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. We currently have no less than majority-owned
investments that require consolidation under variable interest entity requirements.       Cash and Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents consist of
investments with original maturities of three months or less.       Accounts Receivable    Accounts receivable includes
receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated
allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

    Investments    Investments represent our investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50%
owned) that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and investments in companies (less than 20% owned) accounted for under the cost method of accounting.       Materials and Supplies    Materials and supplies are carried at the lower of average cost or market.       Property and Depreciation    Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in
high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards), for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of
depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool
of resources, not as singular items. We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies. Under the group method of depreciation, no gain or loss is recognized when depreciable property is retired
or replaced in the ordinary course of business.       Impairment of Long-lived Assets    We review long-lived assets, including
identifiable intangibles, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less
than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value as measured by the discounted cash flows.       Revenue Recognition    We recognize freight revenues as freight moves from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each
reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Other revenues, which include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenue, are recognized as service is performed or contractual
obligations are met. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues based on actual or projected future customer
shipments.       Translation of Foreign Currency    Our portion of the assets and liabilities related to foreign investments are
translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized gains or losses are reflected within common
shareholders  equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.       Fair Value Measurements    We use a fair value
hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels include:      Level 1: Quoted market prices in
active markets for identical assets or liabilities.      Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated
by market data.      Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.   
  We have applied fair value measurements to our pension plan assets and short- and long-term debt.   
   Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive
stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit
vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted.      We measure and recognize compensation expense for all
stock-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options. Compensation expense is based on the calculated fair value of the awards as measured at the grant date and is expensed ratably over the service period of the awards
(generally the vesting period). The fair value of retention awards is the closing stock price on the date of grant, while the fair value of stock options is determined by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    Earnings Per Share    Basic earnings per share are calculated on the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share include shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and stock-based awards where the conversion of such instruments would be dilutive.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation
are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.   
  When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining
whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of
estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset.      We recognize tax benefits that are more
likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax
benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.   
   Pension and Postretirement Benefits    We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pensions and postretirement health
benefits. In order to measure the expense associated with these benefits, we must make various assumptions including discount rates used to value certain liabilities, expected return on plan assets used to fund these expenses, compensation
increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and expected future health care costs. The assumptions used by us are based on our historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. We use an actuarial analysis to
measure the expense and liability associated with these benefits.       Personal Injury    The cost of injuries to employees and
others on our property is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability. Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present
value. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Asbestos    We estimate a liability for asserted and
unasserted asbestos-related claims based on an assessment of the number and value of those claims. We use a statistical analysis to assist us in properly measuring our potential liability. Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted
to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Environmental    When environmental issues have been identified with respect to property currently or formerly owned, leased, or otherwise used in the conduct of our business, we perform, with the
assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on such property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not
discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.   
   Use of Estimates    Our Consolidated Financial Statements include estimates and assumptions regarding certain assets, liabilities,
revenue, and expenses and the disclosure of certain contingent assets and liabilities. Actual future results may differ from such estimates.   
    3. Accounting Pronouncements    
   On January 1, 2012, we adopted 2011-05,  Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income  (ASU
2011-05) which requires presentation of the components of net income and other comprehensive income either as one continuous statement or as two consecutive statements and eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income as
part of the statement of changes in shareholders  equity. The standard does not change the items that must be reported in other   
         57   

Table of Contents  

comprehensive income, how such items are measured or when they must be reclassified to net income. Also, in December of 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-12,
 Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05  (ASU 2011-12). On February 5, 2013, the FASB issued
Accounting Standards Update 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income,  which adds additional disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. This ASU
will be effective for the first interim reporting period in 2013.   
    4. Stock Options and Other Stock Plans    
   There are 7,140 restricted shares outstanding under the 1992 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific
Corporation. We no longer grant awards of restricted shares under this plan.      In April 2000, the shareholders approved the Union Pacific
Corporation 2000 Directors Plan (Directors Plan) whereby 1,100,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance to our non-employee directors. Under the Directors Plan, each non-employee director, upon his or her initial election to the
Board of Directors, receives a grant of 2,000 retention shares or retention stock units. Prior to December 31, 2007, each non-employee director received annually an option to purchase at fair value a number of shares of our common stock, not to
exceed 10,000 shares during any calendar year, determined by dividing 60,000 by 1/3 of the fair market value of one share of our common stock on the date of such Board of Directors meeting, with the resulting quotient rounded up or down to the
nearest 50 shares. In September 2007, the Board of Directors eliminated the annual payment of options for 2008 and all future years. As of December 31, 2012, 18,000 restricted shares and 120,700 options were outstanding under the Directors
Plan.      The Union Pacific Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (2001 Plan) was approved by the shareholders in April 2001. The 2001 Plan
reserved 24,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in the form of non-qualified options, incentive stock options, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards.
Non-employee directors were not eligible for awards under the 2001 Plan. As of December 31, 2012, 130,858 options were outstanding under the 2001 Plan. We no longer grant any stock options or other stock or unit awards under this plan.
     The Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (2004 Plan) was approved by shareholders in April 2004. The 2004 Plan reserved
42,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under previous plans that were outstanding on April 16, 2004, and became available for regrant pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Plan. Under the 2004
Plan, non-qualified options, stock appreciation rights, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under
the 2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2012, 4,037,038 options and 3,430,463 retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2004 Plan.      Pursuant to the above plans 32,168,520; 32,374,343; and 32,904,291 shares of our common stock were authorized and available for grant at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.   
   Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive
stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit
vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted. Information regarding stock-based compensation appears in the table below:       
 
         58   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Options    We estimate the fair value of our stock option awards using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The table below shows the annual weighted-average assumptions used for valuation purposes:       
    The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant; the dividend yield is
calculated as the ratio of dividends paid per share of common stock to the stock price on the date of grant; the expected life is based on historical and expected exercise behavior; and volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock
price over the expected life of the option.      A summary of stock option activity during 2012 is presented below:   
   
    Stock options are granted at the closing price on the date of grant, have ten-year contractual terms, and vest no
later than three years from the date of grant. None of the stock options outstanding at December 31, 2012 are subject to performance or market-based vesting conditions.      At December 31, 2012, there was $16 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1 year. Additional
information regarding stock option exercises appears in the table below:       
 
         59   

Table of Contents  

    Retention Awards    The fair value of retention awards is based on the closing price of the
stock on the grant date. Dividends and dividend equivalents are paid to participants during the vesting periods.      Changes in our retention awards during
2012 were as follows:       
    Retention awards are granted at no cost to the employee or non-employee director and vest over periods lasting up
to four years. At December 31, 2012, there was $65 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years.   
   Performance Retention Awards    In February 2012, our Board of Directors approved performance stock unit grants. Other than different
performance targets, the basic terms of these performance stock units are identical to those granted in February 2010 and February 2011, including using annual return on invested capital (ROIC) as the performance measure. We define ROIC as net
operating profit adjusted for interest expense (including interest on the present value of operating leases) and taxes on interest divided by average invested capital adjusted for the present value of operating leases.   
  Stock units awarded to selected employees under these grants are subject to continued employment for 37 months and the attainment of certain levels
of ROIC. We expense the fair value of the units that are probable of being earned based on our forecasted ROIC over the 3-year performance period. We measure the fair value of these performance stock units based upon the closing price of the
underlying common stock as of the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated future dividends. Dividend equivalents are paid to participants only after the units are earned.   
  The assumptions used to calculate the present value of estimated future dividends related to the February 2012 grant were as follows:   
   
    Changes in our performance retention awards during 2012 were as follows:   
   
    At December 31, 2012, there was $36 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested
performance retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1 year. A portion of this expense is subject to achievement of the ROIC levels established for the performance stock unit grants.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

5. Retirement Plans    
    Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits        Pension Plans    We provide defined benefit retirement income to eligible non-union employees through qualified and non-qualified (supplemental) pension plans. Qualified and non-qualified pension
benefits are based on years of service and the highest compensation during the latest years of employment, with specific reductions made for early retirements.       Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB)    We provide medical and life insurance benefits for eligible retirees. These benefits are funded as medical claims and life insurance premiums are paid.   
   Funded Status       We are required by GAAP to
separately recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and OPEB plans as an asset or liability. The funded status represents the difference between the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and the fair value of the plan assets. Our
non-qualified (supplemental) pension plan is unfunded by design. The PBO of the pension plans is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants, including the effect of assumed future compensation increases. The PBO of the OPEB
plan is equal to the accumulated benefit obligation, as the present value of the OPEB liabilities is not affected by compensation increases. Plan assets are measured at fair value. We use a December 31 measurement date for plan assets and
obligations for all our retirement plans.      Changes in our PBO and plan assets were as follows for the years ended December 31:
      
    Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 consist of:

61   

Table of Contents  

   Pre-tax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of December 31,
2012 and 2011 consist of:       
    Pre-tax changes recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss) during 2012, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
      
    Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) expected to be amortized into net periodic cost
(benefit) during 2013:       
     Underfunded Accumulated Benefit Obligation    The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the present
value of benefits earned to date, assuming no future compensation growth. The underfunded accumulated benefit obligation represents the difference between the ABO and the fair value of plan assets. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the
non-qualified (supplemental) plan ABO was $331 million and $284 million, respectively. The following table discloses only the PBO, ABO, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans where the accumulated benefit obligation is in excess of the fair
value of the plan assets as of December 31:       

[a]   
     The fair value of plan assets for one plan is in excess of the accumulated benefit obligation and therefore is not included.
         The ABO for all defined benefit pension plans was $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2012 and
2011, respectively.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

    Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at
December 31:       
     Expense    
  Both pension and OPEB expense are determined based upon the annual service cost of benefits (the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period)
and the interest cost on those liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period.
This practice is intended to reduce year-to-year volatility in pension expense, but it can have the effect of delaying the recognition of differences between actual returns on assets and expected returns based on long-term rate of return
assumptions. Differences in actual experience in relation to assumptions are not recognized in net income immediately, but are deferred and, if necessary, amortized as pension or OPEB expense.   
  The components of our net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) were as follows for the years ended December 31:   
   
     Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine expense were as follows for
the years ended December 31:       
    The discount rate was based on a yield curve of high quality corporate bonds with cash flows matching our
plans  expected benefit payments. The expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into account current and expected market conditions. The actual return on pension plan assets, net of
fees, was approximately 13% in 2012, 2% in 2011, and 14% in 2010.      Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
expense and liabilities reported for health care plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate is based on historical rates and expected market conditions. The 2013 assumed health care cost trend rate for employees under 65 is 6.91%. It is
  
         63   

Table of Contents  

assumed the rate will decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2028 and will remain at that level. A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have
the following effects on OPEB:       

Millions    
      
   One % pt. Increase   

One % pt. Decrease   

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  1   

$  
      (1)  

Effect on accumulated benefit obligation   

18   

(15)  
       
     Cash Contributions       The following table details our cash contributions for the qualified pension plans and the benefit payments for the non-qualified (supplemental) pension and OPEB plans:   
   
    Our policy with respect to funding the qualified plans is to fund at least the minimum required by law and not more
than the maximum amount deductible for tax purposes. All contributions made to the qualified pension plans in 2012 were voluntary and were made with cash generated from operations.   
  The non-qualified pension and OPEB plans are not funded and are not subject to any minimum regulatory funding requirements. Benefit payments for
each year represent supplemental pension payments and claims paid for medical and life insurance. We anticipate our 2013 supplemental pension and OPEB payments will be made from cash generated from operations.   
   Benefit Payments       The following table
details expected benefit payments for the years 2013 through 2022:       
     Asset Allocation Strategy       Our pension plan asset allocation at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and target allocation for 2013, are as follows:       
    The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to maintain a broadly diversified portfolio designed to achieve
our target average long-term rate of return of 7.5%. While we believe we can achieve a long-term average rate of return of 7.5%, we cannot be certain that the portfolio will perform to our expectations. Assets are strategically allocated among
equity, debt, and other investments in order to achieve a   
         64   

Table of Contents  

diversification level that reduces fluctuations in investment returns. Asset allocation target ranges for equity, debt, and other portfolios are evaluated at least every three years with the
assistance of an independent consulting firm. Actual asset allocations are monitored monthly, and rebalancing actions are executed at least quarterly, if needed.      The pension plan investments are held in a Master Trust. The majority of pension plan assets are invested in equity securities because equity portfolios have historically provided higher returns than debt and other
asset classes over extended time horizons and are expected to do so in the future. Correspondingly, equity investments also entail greater risks than other investments. Equity risks are balanced by investing a significant portion of the plans 
assets in high quality debt securities. The average credit rating of the debt portfolio exceeded A+ as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. The debt portfolio is also broadly diversified and invested primarily in U.S. Treasury, mortgage, and
corporate securities. The weighted-average maturity of the debt portfolio was 12 years at both December 31, 2012 and 2011.      The
investment of pension plan assets in securities issued by Union Pacific is specifically prohibited by the plan for both the equity and debt portfolios, other than through index fund holdings.       Fair Value Measurements       The pension plan assets are valued at fair value. The following is a
description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.   
   Temporary Cash Investments    These investments consist of U.S. dollars and foreign currencies held in master trust accounts at The
Northern Trust Company. Foreign currencies held are reported in terms of U.S. dollars based on currency exchange rates readily available in active markets. These temporary cash investments are classified as Level 1 investments.   
   Registered Investment Companies    Registered Investment Companies are real estate investments, non-U.S. stock investments, and bond
investments registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The real estate investments and non-U.S. stock investments are traded actively on public exchanges. The share prices for these investments are published at the close of each
business day. Holdings of real estate investments and non-U.S. stock investments are classified as Level 1 investments. The bond investments are not traded publicly, but the underlying assets (stocks and bonds) held in these funds are traded on
active markets and the prices for these assets are readily observable. Holdings in bond investments are classified as Level 2 investments.       U.S. Government Securities    Federal Government Securities consist of bills, notes, bonds, and other fixed income securities issued directly by the U.S. Treasury or by government-sponsored enterprises.
These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Federal Government Securities are classified as Level 2 investments.   
   Corporate Bonds   Debentures    Bonds and debentures consist of fixed income securities issued by U.S. and non-U.S.
corporations as well as state, local, and non-U.S. governments. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Corporate, state, and municipal bonds and debentures are classified as
Level 2 investments.       Corporate Stock    This investment category consists of common and preferred stock issued by U.S. and
non-U.S. corporations. Most common shares are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these shares are readily available. Common stock is classified as a Level 1 investment. Preferred shares included in this category are valued using a bid
evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Preferred stock is classified as a Level 2 investment.   
   Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships    This investment category is comprised of interests in limited partnerships that invest
primarily in privately-held companies. Due to the private nature of the partnership investments, pricing inputs are not readily observable. Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships. These valuations are
based on the application of public market multiples to private company cash flows, market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies, and other methods. Holdings of limited partnership interests are classified as Level
3 investments.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

    Real Estate Partnerships and Funds    Most of the real estate investments are partnership
interests similar to those described in the Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships category. This category also includes real estate investments held in less commonly used structures such as private real estate investment trusts and pooled separate
accounts. Valuations for the holdings in this category are not based on readily observable inputs and are primarily derived from property appraisals. Interests in private real estate partnerships, investment funds and pooled separate accounts are
classified as Level 3 investments.       Common Trust and Other Funds    Common trust funds are comprised of shares or units in
commingled funds that are not publicly traded. The underlying assets in these funds (U.S. stock funds, non-U.S. stock funds, commodity funds, and short term investment funds) are publicly traded on exchanges and price quotes for the assets held by
these funds are readily available. Holdings of common trust funds are classified as Level 2 investments.      This category also includes an
investment in a limited liability company that invests in publicly-traded convertible securities. The limited liability company investment is a fund that invests in both long and short positions in convertible securities, stocks, and fixed income
securities. The underlying securities held by the fund are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these investments are readily available. Interest in the limited liability company is classified as a Level 2 investment.   
   Other Investments    This category includes several miscellaneous assets such as commodity hedge fund investments and derivative
securities. These investments have valuations that are based on observable inputs and are classified as Level 2 investments.      As of December 31,
2012, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:       

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.       
         66   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2011, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.          For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were no significant transfers in or out of Levels 1, 2, or 3.      The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2012:   
   
    The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements
using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2011:       
 
         67   

Table of Contents  

    Other Retirement Programs        401(k)/Thrift Plan    We provide a defined contribution plan (401(k)/thrift plan) to eligible non-union employees for whom we make matching contributions. We match 50 cents for each dollar contributed by
employees up to the first six percent of compensation contributed. Our plan contributions were $15 million in 2012, $14 million in 2011 and $13 million in 2010.       Railroad Retirement System    All Railroad employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement System (the System). Contributions made to the System are expensed as incurred and amounted to approximately
$644 million in 2012, $600 million in 2011, and $566 million in 2010.       Collective Bargaining Agreements    Under collective
bargaining agreements, we participate in multi-employer benefit plans that provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for eligible union employees. Premiums paid under these plans are expensed as incurred and amounted to
$62 million in 2012, $66 million in 2011, and $60 million in 2010.   
    6. Other Income    
   Other income included the following for the years ended December 31:   

68   

Table of Contents  

   For the years ended December 31, reconciliations between statutory and effective tax rates are as follows:
      
    In February of 2011, Arizona enacted legislation that will decrease the state s corporate tax rate. This
reduced our deferred tax expense by $14 million in the first quarter of 2011.      Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the
expected future tax consequences of events that are reported in different periods for financial reporting and income tax purposes. The majority of our deferred tax assets relate to deductions that already have been claimed for financial reporting
purposes but not for tax purposes. The majority of our deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax bases and financial reporting amounts of our land and depreciable property, due to accelerated tax depreciation (including bonus
depreciation), revaluation of assets in purchase accounting transactions, and differences in capitalization methods.      Deferred income tax
(liabilities)/assets were comprised of the following at December 31:       
    When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may
not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized based on management s judgments using
available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2012 and 2011, there were no valuation allowances.   
  Tax benefits are recognized only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount
recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits are tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement
standards.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of changes in unrecognized tax benefits liabilities/(assets) from the beginning to
the end of the reporting period is as follows:       
    We recognize interest and penalties as part of income tax expense. Total accrued liabilities for interest and
penalties were $6 million and $10 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Total interest and penalties recognized as part of income tax expense (benefit) were $(4) million for 2012, $10 million for 2011, and $6 million for 2010.
     Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations have been completed and settled for all years prior to 2005, although some interest
calculations remain open for years prior to 2005. The IRS has completed its examinations and issued notices of deficiency for tax years 2005 through 2008. We disagree with many of their proposed adjustments, and we are at IRS Appeals for these
years. Additionally, several state tax authorities are examining our state income tax returns for years 2003 through 2010.      In 2012,
Union Pacific and the IRS signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters for tax years 1999-2004. In connection with the settlement, we will receive a refund of $8 million in 2013. The settlement had an immaterial effect on our income tax
expense.      We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly in the next 12 months. At December 31, 2012, we
had a net unrecognized tax benefit liability of $115 million. Of that amount, $13 million is classified as a current asset in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.      The portion of our unrecognized tax benefits that relates to permanent changes in tax and interest would reduce our effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits relate to tax positions
for which only the timing of the benefit is uncertain. Recognition of the tax benefits with uncertain timing would reduce our effective tax rate only through a reduction of accrued interest and penalties. The unrecognized tax benefits that would
reduce our effective tax rate are as follows:       
 
         70   

Table of Contents  

8. Earnings Per Share    
   The following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31:
      
    Common stock options totaling 0.5 million, 0.6 million, and 0.3 million for 2012, 2011, and 2010,
respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of these options exceeded the average market price of our common stock for the respective periods, and the effect of their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.   
    9. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)    
   The after-tax components of accumulated other comprehensive loss were as follows:   

10. Accounts Receivable    
   Accounts receivable includes freight and other receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based
upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, our accounts receivable were reduced by $4 million and $9 million, respectively. Receivables not expected to be collected in
one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, receivables classified as other assets were reduced by allowances of $33 million and $41
million, respectively.       Receivables Securitization Facility    Under the receivables securitization facility, the Railroad
sells most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary. UPRI may subsequently transfer, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in eligible accounts
receivable to investors. The total capacity to transfer undivided interests to investors under the facility was $600 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under
the facility was $100 million at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $1.1 billion of accounts receivable at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. At both December 31, 2012
and 2011, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $1.1 billion. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.     
  The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is
directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would not change as of
December 31, 2012. Should our   
         71   

Table of Contents  

credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to
discontinue the facility.      The Railroad collected approximately $20.1 billion and $18.8 billion of receivables during the years ended
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.      The
costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing commercial paper rates, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability. The costs of the
receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $3 million, $4 million and $6 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets, except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.   
  In July 2012, the receivables securitization facility was renewed for an additional 364-day period at comparable terms and conditions.   
   Subsequent Event    On January 2, 2013, we transferred an additional $300 million in undivided interest to investors under the
receivables securitization facility, increasing the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors from $100 million to $400 million.   
    11. Properties    
   The following tables list the major categories of property and equipment, as well as the weighted-average composite depreciation
rate for each category:       

[a]   
     Includes a weighted-average composite depreciation rate for rail in high-density traffic corridors as discussed below.       

[b]   
     Other includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
         72   

Table of Contents  

[a]   
     Includes a weighted-average composite depreciation rate for rail in high-density traffic corridors as discussed below.       

[b]   
     Other includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
   Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type
assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers.
Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service
lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross
tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method
of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset
strategies, or other factors.      We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies.
We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following
factors:       

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. For all other depreciable
assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from   
         73   

Table of Contents  

the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.   
  Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of
business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated
useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates
inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and
the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our
depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.      For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is
unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not
part of our railroad operations.      When we purchase an asset, we capitalize all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended
use. However, many of our assets are self-constructed. A large portion of our capital expenditures is for replacement of existing track assets and other road properties, which is typically performed by our employees, and for track line expansion and
other capacity projects. Costs that are directly attributable to capital projects (including overhead costs) are capitalized. Direct costs that are capitalized as part of self-constructed assets include material, labor, and work equipment. Indirect
costs are capitalized if they clearly relate to the construction of the asset.      General and administrative expenditures are expensed as
incurred. Normal repairs and maintenance, including rail grinding, are also expensed as incurred, while costs incurred that extend the useful life of an asset, improve the safety of our operations or improve operating efficiency are capitalized.
These costs are allocated using appropriate statistical bases. Total expense for repairs and maintenance incurred was $2.1 billion for 2012, $2.2 billion for 2011, and $2.0 billion for 2010.   
  Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased
asset at the inception of the lease. Amortization expense is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease.   
    12. Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities    

74   

Table of Contents  

13. Financial Instruments    
    Strategy and Risk    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances for other than trading purposes
to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial
instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and
relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair
market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel
prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable interest rate and fuel price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We
manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had
we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.       Determination of Fair Value    We determine the fair values of
our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.       Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over
a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to
obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.   
  Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable
to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no
interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.       Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash
flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had reductions of $1 million and $2 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is
being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.       Earnings Impact    Our use of derivative financial instruments had the following impact on pre-tax income for the years ended December 31:   
   
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments    The fair value of our short- and long-term debt was estimated
using a market value price model, which utilizes applicable U.S. Treasury rates along with current market quotes on comparable debt securities. All of the inputs used to determine the fair market value of the Corporation s long-term debt are
Level 2 inputs and obtained from an independent source. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of total debt was $11.1 billion, approximately $2.1 billion more than the carrying value. At December 31, 2011, the fair value of total debt was
$10.5 billion, approximately $1.6 billion more than the carrying value. The fair value of the Corporation s debt is a measure of its current value   
         75   

Table of Contents  

under present market conditions. It does not impact the financial statements under current accounting rules. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately $203 million and $303 million,
respectively, of fixed-rate debt securities contained call provisions that allow us to retire the debt instruments prior to final maturity, with the payment of fixed call premiums, or in certain cases, at par. The fair value of our cash equivalents
approximates their carrying value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.   
    14. Debt    
   Total debt as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, net of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges, is summarized
below:       
     Debt Maturities    The following table presents aggregate debt maturities as of December 31, 2012,
excluding market value adjustments:       
    As of both December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we have reclassified as long-term debt $100 million
of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflects our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis.   
   Equipment Encumbrances    Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $2.9 billion at both December 31, 2012 and 2011 served
as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment.      As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same
value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the
terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.   
     
         76   

Table of Contents  

    Credit Facilities    On December 31, 2012, we had $1.8 billion of credit available
under our revolving credit facility (the facility), which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2012. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the
facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt
ratings. The facility matures in 2015 under a four year term and requires the Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 (and at all times
during the year), we were in compliance with this covenant.      The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the
debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2012, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio
allowed us to carry up to $39.8 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $9.6 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the
debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other
than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.   
  During 2012, we issued and repaid commercial paper of $50 million. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our
revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the
facility.       Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the
Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $15.1 billion and $13.8 billion at December 31, 2012
and 2011, respectively.       Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings    Under our current shelf registration,
we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will
continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.   
  During 2012, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:   
   
    We used the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock
pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2012, we had remaining authority to issue up to $1.4 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.   
  On May 22, 2012, we borrowed $100 million under a 4-year-term loan (the loan). The loan has a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered
Rates, plus a spread, and is prepayable in whole or in part without a premium prior to maturity. The agreement documenting the loan has provisions similar to our revolving credit facility, including identical debt-to-net-worth covenant and change of
control provisions and similar customary default provisions. The agreement does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers, or any other provision that would require us to post collateral.   
  During the third and fourth quarters of 2012, we acquired 343 locomotives by exercising early buy-out rights in certain operating and capital lease
agreements. Following the acquisition of the locomotives, we   
         77   

Table of Contents  

   sold them to financing parties and entered into capital lease financing agreements with these parties.
We did not recognize any gains or losses as a result of these transactions. Capital lease obligations totaling $286 million are reported in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt at December 31, 2012.   
   Debt Exchange    On June 23, 2011, we exchanged $857 million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between 2013 and 2019
(Existing Notes) for $750 million of 4.163% notes (New Notes) due July 15, 2022, plus cash consideration of approximately $267 million and $17 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with ASC 470-50-40,
Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to
the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the term of the New Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the
exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $6 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended June 30, 2011.   
  The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:   
   
     Debt Redemptions    On November 30, 2012, we redeemed all $450 million of our outstanding 5.45%
notes due January 31, 2013. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $4 million.      On April 28, 2012, we
redeemed all $100 million of our outstanding 5.70% Tooele County, Utah Hazardous Waste Treatment Revenue Bonds due November 1, 2026. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $2 million in the second quarter of 2012.
     On December 19, 2011, we redeemed the remaining $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012, and all $300 million of
our outstanding 6.125% notes due January 15, 2012. The redemptions resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $5 million.      On
March 22, 2010, we redeemed $175 million of our 6.5% notes due April 15, 2012. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $16 million in the first quarter of 2010.   
  On November 1, 2010, we redeemed all $400 million of our outstanding 6.65% notes due January 15, 2011. The redemption resulted in a $5
million early extinguishment charge.       Receivables Securitization Facility    As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we have
recorded $100 million as secured debt under our receivables securitization facility. (See further discussion of our receivables securitization facility in Note 10).   
    15. Variable Interest Entities    
   We have entered into various lease transactions in which the structure of the leases contain variable interest entities (VIEs).
These VIEs were created solely for the purpose of doing lease transactions (principally involving railroad equipment and facilities, including our headquarters building) and have no other activities, assets or liabilities outside of the lease
transactions. Within these lease arrangements, we have the right to purchase some or all of the assets at fixed prices. Depending on market conditions,   
         78   

Table of Contents  

fixed-price purchase options available in the leases could potentially provide benefits to us; however, these benefits are not expected to be significant.   
  We maintain and operate the assets based on contractual obligations within the lease arrangements, which set specific guidelines consistent within
the railroad industry. As such, we have no control over activities that could materially impact the fair value of the leased assets. We do not hold the power to direct the activities of the VIEs and, therefore, do not control the ongoing activities
that have a significant impact on the economic performance of the VIEs. Additionally, we do not have the obligation to absorb losses of the VIEs or the right to receive benefits of the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the VIEs.
     We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary and do not consolidate these VIEs because our actions and decisions do not have the
most significant effect on the VIE s performance and our fixed-price purchase price options are not considered to be potentially significant to the VIE s. The future minimum lease payments associated with the VIE leases totaled $3.6
billion as of December 31, 2012.   
    16. Leases    
   We lease certain locomotives, freight cars, and other property. The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011 included $2,467 million, net of $966 million of accumulated depreciation, and $2,458 million, net of $915 million of accumulated depreciation, respectively, for properties held under capital leases. A charge to income
resulting from the depreciation for assets held under capital leases is included within depreciation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Future minimum lease payments for operating and capital leases with initial or remaining
non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2012, were as follows:       
    Approximately 94% of capital lease payments relate to locomotives. Rent expense for operating leases with terms
exceeding one month was $631 million in 2012, $637 million in 2011, and $624 million in 2010. When cash rental payments are not made on a straight-line basis, we recognize variable rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals and sub-rentals are not significant.   
    17. Commitments and Contingencies    
    Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries.
We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable
and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.       Personal Injury    The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use
an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages
  
         79   

Table of Contents  

are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at
work.      Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value. Approximately 90% of the recorded liability is related to
asserted claims, and approximately 10% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2012. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these
claims may range from approximately $334 million to $368 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in
litigation.      Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:       
     Asbestos    We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other
parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability
for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:       

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 22% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 78% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2012. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $139 million to $149 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.
     Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:       
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2012, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We
have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such
as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if
strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws   
         80   

Table of Contents  

governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other
defendants.       Environmental Costs    We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have
identified 284 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 32 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government,
17 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs
relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.      When we identify an
environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue
the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. At
December 31, 2012, none of our environmental liability was discounted, while less than 1% of our environmental liability was discounted at 2.0% at December 31, 2011.      Our environmental liability activity was as follows:       

[a]   
     Payments include $25 million to resolve the Omaha Lead Site liability.       
  The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any
anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for
remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and
quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current
obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.       Guarantees    At December 31, 2012, we were contingently liable for $307 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $2 million for the fair value of these obligations as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final
guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition,
results of operations, or liquidity.       Indemnities    Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements,
including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be
resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be
required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

    Gain Contingency    UPRR and Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines (SFPP, a subsidiary of Kinder
Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.) currently are engaged in a proceeding to resolve the fair market rent payable to UPRR under a 10-year agreement commencing on January 1, 2004 for pipeline easements on UPRR rights-of-way (   Union Pacific
Railroad Company vs. Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines, Inc., SFPP, L.P., Kinder Morgan Operating L.P.  D  Kinder Morgan G.P., Inc., et al., Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles, filed July 28,
2004   ). In February 2007, a trial began to resolve this issue, and, on September 28, 2011, the judge issued a tentative Statement of Decision, which concluded that SFPP owes back rent to UPRR for the years 2004 through 2011. On
May 29, 2012, the court entered judgment, awarding UPRR back rent and prejudgment interest. SFPP is appealing the final judgment. A favorable final judgment may materially affect our results of operations in the period of any monetary
recoveries; however, due to the uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of any recovery, including the outcome of SFPP s appeal of this judgment or any subsequent proceeding, we consider this a gain contingency and do not reflect any
amounts in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2012.     
    18. Share Repurchase Program    
   Effective April 1, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 40 million shares of our common stock by
March 31, 2014, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of December 31, 2012, we repurchased a total of $7.1 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs. The table below represents shares repurchased
under the new repurchase program, except for the first quarter of 2011 which represent shares repurchased under the previous program.       
    Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all
repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in
treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

19. Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited)    
    
    Per share net income for the four quarters combined may not equal the per share net income for the year due to rounding.
  
      Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
      None.         Item 9A.
 Controls and Procedures        As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under
the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of
the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based upon that evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this
report, the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified by the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
  Additionally, the CEO and CFO determined that there were no changes to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) during the last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

      MANAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
      The management of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). The Corporation s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Corporation s
management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.      All internal
control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   
  The Corporation s management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework.  Based on our assessment,
management believes that, as of December 31, 2012, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
the next page.      February 7, 2013   
         84   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation:      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2012, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2012 of the Corporation and our report dated February 8, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule.   

Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 8, 2013   
         85   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B.  Other Information     
  None.          PART III
          Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance     

(a)  
    Directors of Registrant.         Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC, terms of office, periods of service, business experience during the past five years and certain other directorships held by each director or person
nominated to become a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of Directors segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit Committee and the independence of its members, along with information about the audit committee financial expert(s) serving on the Audit Committee, is set forth in the Audit
Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.       

(b)  
    Executive Officers of Registrant.         Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its subsidiaries is presented in Part I of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries.

(c)  
    Section 16(a) Compliance.         Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and
is incorporated herein by reference.       

(d)  
    Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers of Registrant.      
  The Board of Directors of UPC has adopted the UPC Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers (the
Code). A copy of the Code may be found on the Internet at our website www.up.com/investors/governance. We intend to disclose any amendments to the Code or any waiver from a provision of the Code on our website.   
     Item 11.  Executive Compensation        Information concerning compensation received by our directors and our named executive officers is presented in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Summary Compensation Table, Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
Fiscal Year 2012, Outstanding Equity Awards at 2012 Fiscal Year-End, Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal Year 2012, Pension Benefits at 2012 Fiscal Year-End, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation at 2012 Fiscal Year-End, Potential Payments Upon
Termination or Change in Control and Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2012 segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding compensation of directors, including Board committee members, is
set forth in the By-Laws of UPC and the Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors, both of which are included as exhibits to this report. Information regarding the Compensation and Benefits Committee is set forth in
the Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and Compensation Committee Report segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters        Information as to the number of shares of our equity securities beneficially owned by each of our
directors and nominees for director, our named executive officers, our directors and executive officers as a group, and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management segment of the Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which UPC common
stock may be issued as of December 31, 2012:       

[2]   
     Does not include the retention units or retention shares described above in footnote 1.       
     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
  Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. We do not have any relationship with any outside third party that would enable such a party to negotiate terms of a material transaction that may not be
available to, or available from, other parties on an arm s-length basis.      Information regarding the independence of our directors
is set forth in the Director Independence segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
     Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
  Information concerning the fees billed by our independent registered public accounting firm and the nature of services comprising the fees for each
of the two most recent fiscal years in each of the following categories: (i) audit fees, (ii) audit-related fees, (iii) tax fees, and (iv) all other fees, is set forth in the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s
Fees and Services segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit
Committee s policies and procedures pertaining to pre-approval of audit and non-audit services rendered by our independent registered public accounting firm is set forth in the Audit Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

       PART IV     
     Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     

(a)  
    Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and Exhibits:      

(1)  
    Financial Statements         The financial statements filed as part of this filing are listed on the index to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, on page 49.   

(2)  
    Financial Statement Schedules         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      Schedules not listed above have been
omitted because they are not applicable or not required or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, or notes thereto.   

Exhibits are listed in the exhibit index beginning on page 91. The exhibits include management contracts, compensatory plans and
arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K by Item 601 (10) (iii) of Regulation S-K.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 8   th    day of February, 2013.      UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION   
  By    /s/ John J. Koraleski    
         John J. Koraleski,   
         President and   
         Chief Executive Officer   
         Union Pacific Corporation   
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below, on this 8   th    day of February, 2013, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated.      PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER   
  AND DIRECTOR:             /s/ John J. Koraleski    
        John J. Koraleski,   
        President and   
        Chief Executive Officer   
        Union Pacific Corporation   
  PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:             /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
        Robert M. Knight, Jr.,   
        Executive Vice President - Finance   
        and Chief Financial Officer   
  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:             /s/ Jeffrey P. Totusek    
        Jeffrey P. Totusek,   
        Vice President and Controller       DIRECTORS:        

Andrew H. Card, Jr.*   
      
        Michael R. McCarthy*    
 
    Erroll B. Davis, Jr.*   
      
        Michael W. McConnell*    
 
    Thomas J. Donohue*   
      
        Thomas F. McLarty III*    
 
    Archie W. Dunham*   
      
        Steven R. Rogel*    
 
    Judith Richards Hope*   
      
        Jose H. Villarreal*    
 
    Charles C. Krulak*   
      
        James R. Young*    
    * By   /s/ James J. Theisen, Jr.    
           James J. Theisen, Jr., Attorney-in-fact   
         89   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
         90   

Table of Contents  

    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Exhibit Index        

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

Filed with this Statement   

10(a)  
     
  Form of 2013 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement dated February 7, 2013.   

10(b)  
     
  Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives dated February 7, 2013.   

10(c)  
     
  Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives dated February 7, 2013.   

12  
     
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.   

21  
     
  List of the Corporation s significant subsidiaries and their respective states of incorporation.   

23  
     
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Consent.   

24  
     
  Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.   

31(a)  
     
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   John J.
Koraleski.    

31(b)  
     
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

32  
     
    Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   John J. Koraleski and Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

101  
     
    eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents submitted electronically: 101.INS (XBRL Instance Document), 101.SCH (XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document),
101.CAL (XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document), 101.LAB (XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document), 101.DEF (XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document) and 101.PRE (XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document). The following financial and related
information from Union Pacific Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (filed with the SEC on February 8, 2013), is formatted in XBRL and submitted electronically herewith: (i) Consolidated Statements
of Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, (v) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholders  Equity for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Incorporated by Reference   

3(a)  
     
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended and restated through June 27, 2011, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Corporation s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.     
         91   

Table of Contents  

3(b)  
     
    By-Laws of UPC, as amended, effective May 14, 2009, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
May 15, 2009.    

4(a)  
     
    Indenture, dated as of December 20, 1996, between UPC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as successor to Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-18345).    

4(b)  
     
    Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1999, between UPC and The Bank of New York, as successor to JP Morgan Chase Bank, formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-75989).    

4(c)  
     
    Form of 2.950% Note due 2023 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 11,
2012.    

4(d)  
     
    Form of 4.300% Note due 2042 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 11,
2012.    

Certain instruments evidencing long-term indebtedness of UPC are not filed as exhibits because the total amount of securities authorized under any single such instrument
does not exceed 10% of the Corporation s total consolidated assets. UPC agrees to furnish the Commission with a copy of any such instrument upon request by the Commission.    

10(d)  
     
    Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended December 28, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(d) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.    

10(e)  
     
    Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(f)  
     
    Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended and restated in its entirety
effective as of January 1, 1989, including all amendments adopted through January 1, 2009, as amended July 22, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2011.    

10(g)  
     
    Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended and restated in its entirety
effective as of January 1, 1989, including all amendments adopted through January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008.    

10(h)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(i)  
     
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, effective as January 1, 2009 as amended December 30, 2010 and June 22, 2011, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011     
         92   

Table of Contents  

10(j)  
     
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended and restated in its entirety, effective as January 1, 2009 is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(k)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan, effective as of April 21, 2000, as amended November 16, 2006, January 30, 2007 and January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(l)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Non-Grandfathered Component), effective as of January 1, 2009 is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(m)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Grandfathered Component), as amended and restated in its
entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(n)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, dated as of November 16, 2000, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2009, as amended February 3,
2011, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.    

10(o)  
     
    UPC 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, originally effective as of April 16, 2004, and amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, and amended September 23, 2009, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.    

10(p)  
     
    UPC 2001 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended November 16, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2006.    

10(q)  
     
    Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail
Corporation (SP) is incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(r)  
     
    Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver   Rio
Grande Western Railroad Company (D RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe), on
the other hand, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(s)  
     
    Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(t)  
     
    The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.     
         93   

Table of Contents  

10(u)  
     
    Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.    

10(v)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.    

10(w)  
     
    Form of 2009 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2008.    

10(x)  
     
    Form of 2010 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2009.    

10(y)  
     
    Form of 2011 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporations Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010.    

10(z)  
     
    Form of 2012 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2011.    

10(aa)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Directors is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2004.    

10(bb)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2005.    

10(cc)  
     
    Executive Incentive Plan (2005)   Deferred Compensation Program, dated December 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.    
 
         94   

<EX-10.(A)>
 2
 d477110dex10a.htm
 FORM OF 2013 LONG TERM STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT

Form of 2013 Long Term Stock Unit Agreement 

Exhibit 10(a)          

Notice of Performance Retention       Unit
Award -Exhibit A   Award       Agreement    
      
     Union Pacific Corporation      ID: 13-2626465     Union Pacific Corporation  
  1400 Douglas Street     Omaha, NE
68179    

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME    
      
    Award Number:   
        
     OPTION_NUMBER     
 
         ADDRESS_LINE_1    
      
    Plan:   
        
     EQUITY_PLAN     
 
         CITY, STATE ZIPCODE    
      
    ID:   
        
     EMPLOYEE_ID     
         
  Effective February 7, 2013, you have been granted a performance retention unit award of Union Pacific Corporation (the
Company) common stock. Please take time to review the  2013 Long Term Plan Summary , which is attached herewith. The units are restricted until the Restriction Period Termination Date shown below.   

Type of Grant:    

LTP Retention Units    
 
     MAXIMUM Number of retention units
granted:        The Stock Unit Target Award (amount of retention units granted at Target is half of the amount shown).    The
amount of units shown is the  maximum  number of shares that you are eligible to receive in accordance with the program design shown in the Long Term Plan Summary. The actual number of shares paid out at vesting, if any, depends on
applicable performance criteria being met.    

X,XXX    
 
     Restriction Period:    

3 years    
 
     Restriction Period Commencement Date:    

02/07/2013    
 
     Restriction Period Termination
Date:    

02/07/2016    
    For general tax purposes, Retention Units are valued at the time of vesting. The closing price of
Union Pacific Corporation common stock on the vesting date as recorded by  The Wall Street Journal  is used when preparing tax calculations.      We would like to call your attention to confidentiality and non-compete provisions in the Agreement and recommend that you review the terms and conditions of these provisions as fully set forth in the Agreement.
Please note that failure to comply with these provisions will result in the forfeiture of the award or will require that any value received from the vesting of this award be returned to the Company. In addition, once you accept the terms of the
Agreement, these provisions will be binding on you whether or not the award vests.           
          By accepting this award, you acknowledge that you are bound by all of the terms of the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time, and the Agreement delivered herewith, each
of which is incorporated by reference in this Exhibit A.           
         1   

2013 LONG TERM PLAN     
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT     
  Dated: February 7, 2013      This Letter Agreement (the  Agreement ) will confirm an award to you of stock units ( Stock Units ), as of the date hereof, by Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), under the 2004
Stock Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended from time to time (the  Plan ), a copy of which is included in this grant package on this website and made a part hereof.   
    STOCK UNITS        1.          GRANT OF UNITS  .    The Company hereby awards to you the number of Stock Units, as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, each
evidencing the right to receive, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, (i) one share of Union Pacific Corporation Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share ( Common Stock ) and
(ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), provided the applicable Performance Criteria described below have been satisfied.
     2.          RESTRICTION PERIOD  .    The period
during which the restrictions set forth herein and in the Plan shall apply to your right to receive the Stock Units granted to you shall commence on the date hereof and expire February 7, 2016 if and to the extent the Performance Criteria
described below for such Stock Units have been satisfied (the  Restriction Period ), subject to the provisions of Section 6 hereof. During the Restriction Period, you may be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments, subject to
the provisions of Section 4 and Section 6(iii) hereof.   
  3.          PERFORMANCE CRITERIA  .    The Performance
Criteria is annual Return on Invested Capital ( ROIC ). However, such Performance Criteria is of no force and effect unless and until the Company has operating income ( Operating Income ) in one or more of fiscal years 2013, 2014
or 2015. The definition and calculation of annual ROIC and Operating Income shall be determined in accordance with the Long Term Plan document approved and adopted by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors
(the  Committee ).      You may earn Stock Units during the Restriction Period based on the Company s
satisfaction of the Performance Criteria in accordance with the ROIC targets and payout schedule approved by the Committee, subject to Section 6(iii) hereof. For the fiscal year   
         2   

ending December 31, 2013, you may earn up to one-third of your Stock Unit Target Award as shown
on Exhibit A based on the first fiscal year (2013) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2014, you may earn up to a total of two-thirds of your Stock Unit Target Award as shown on Exhibit A (less any Stock
Units earned in the first fiscal year) based on the average of the first two fiscal years (2013 and 2014) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, you may earn up to two times your Stock Unit Target Award as
shown on Exhibit A (less any Stock Units earned in the first two fiscal years) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2013, 2014, and 2015) of ROIC performance achieved.   
  4.          DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS .     For all dividend
record dates occurring while you are employed and between the date that Stock Units are earned and the date that shares are delivered to you, you shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those Stock Units which have been earned
in accordance with Section 3 hereof. If you earn Stock Units in accordance with Section 3 hereof that are payable to you as specified in Section 6(iii) hereof, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, you shall further receive
Dividend Equivalent Payments for all dividend record dates occurring after you are separated from service through the date the shares are delivered to you as provided in and subject to the adjustment described in Section 6(iii) hereof. Any such
Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however, that if you have elected to defer receipt of such Stock Units in accordance with the terms
of the Deferred Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), payment of such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 12 of the Plan.   
  5.          RESTRICTIONS .     (i) You shall be entitled
to delivery of the shares of Common Stock only as specified in Section 6 hereof; (ii) none of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of; (iii) your right to receive Dividend
Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earlier of your separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, except as provided in Section 6(iii) hereof, or your receipt of Common
Stock under Section 6 hereof; (iv) all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of your rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company in the
event of your separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary without having a right to delivery of shares of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof; and (v) any Stock Units not
  
         3   

earned as of the end of the Restriction Period shall be forfeited and all of your rights to such Stock
Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company.   
  6.          LAPSE OF RESTRICTIONS AND PAYMENT OF STOCK
UNITS .     (i) Following the end of the Restriction Period and provided you have remained continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through the end of the Restriction Period and absent any Change of Control
before the end of the Restriction Period, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned pursuant to the achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria shall be delivered
to you (through your account at the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2013, 2014 or 2015. The payment of the
Stock Units under this Section 6(i) shall be made to you as soon as practicable following the end of the Restriction Period, but in no event later than two and one-half (2    1   /   2   )
months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Restriction Period ends. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period when the Company
determines that the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with
securities or other regulatory requirements.       (ii) If you have a separation from service with
the Company or a Subsidiary prior to the end of the Restriction Period and prior to a Change in Control because you die or become disabled (as determined under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan),
you, your estate or your beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of the
fiscal year ending prior to the date of your death or disability, as the case may be, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2013, 2014 or 2015 and further provided that such fiscal year precedes the date of
your death or disability. The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(ii) shall be as soon as practicable following your separation from service, but in no event later than two and one-half (2    1   /   2   )
months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which you die or become disabled.       (iii)
Section 9(e)(i) and Section 9(f) of the Plan pertaining to the vesting and payment of Stock Units upon  Age 65 Retirement Status  shall not be applicable, and instead, if you have a separation from service with the Company or a
Subsidiary prior to   
         4   

the end of the Restriction Period and prior to a Change in Control because you
retire after having attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan ( Retirement ), you, your estate or your beneficiary, as the case may be, shall be entitled to
receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned based on the average of all three fiscal years (2013, 2014 and 2015) of the applicable Performance Criteria achieved prorated based on the number of fiscal years in
the Restriction Period during which you remained continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary until
September 30   th    of that year ( e.g. , if you retire on or after
September 30, 2013 then you would be entitled to receive payment for 33 1/3% of the earned Stock Units, if you retire on or after September 30, 2014 then you would be entitled to receive payment for 66 2/3% of the earned Stock Units and if
you retire on or after September 30, 2015 than you would be entitled to receive payment for 100% of the earned Stock Units), provided that the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2013, 2014 or 2015. You shall be
entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments respecting all Stock Units earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof through the end of the fiscal year ending before your Retirement for all dividend record dates occurring after your
Retirement and during the Restriction Period until you receive Common Stock under this Section 6(iii), notwithstanding your Retirement. The Committee shall adjust the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to you and/or the
total number of shares of Common Stock paid to you following the end of the Restriction Period so that the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to you do not exceed the amount that would have been made based on the number of Stock
Units which are earned as set forth in this Section 6(iii). The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(iii) shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the Restriction Period, but in no event later than two and
one-half (2    1   /   2   ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the end of the Restriction Period.       (iv) If a Change in Control occurs prior to the end of the Restriction Period and prior to your death, disability or Retirement, or separation from service for any other reason, shares of Common Stock equal to the
number of Stock Units that would have been earned if the Performance Criteria shall have been satisfied at the greater of one hundred percent of your Stock Unit Target Award as shown on Exhibit A or the number of Stock Units that would have been
earned based on the Performance Criteria satisfied through the end of each fiscal year prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be
delivered to you (through your account at the Company s third party   
         5   

administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has
Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2013, 2014 or 2015 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the date of the Change in Control. In either event following the Change in Control no additional Stock Units may be
earned under this Agreement. Shares of Common Stock to which you are entitled pursuant to this Section 6(iv) shall be delivered as soon as practicable following the Change in Control, but in no event later than two and one-half (2
   1   /   2   ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Change in Control occurs.       (v) If you have a separation from service with the Company or a Subsidiary for any other reason, with or without cause, prior to the earlier of the end of the Restriction Period or a Change in Control, you will
forfeit all Stock Units and all of your rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company.      (vi) You may elect to defer receipt of payment of shares underlying the Stock Units to the extent and according to the terms, if any, provided by the Deferred Compensation Plan. If you do so elect to defer payment
of shares underlying the Stock Units, such payments will be made in accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan.   
  7.          WITHHOLDING .     Upon payment of the Stock Units,
you must arrange for the payment to the Company (through the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) of all applicable withholding taxes resulting therefrom promptly after notification of the amount thereof. You may elect
to have shares withheld to pay withholding taxes, but only at the statutory minimum rate, if a proper election is made to pay withholding taxes in this manner.      8.          SUBJECT TO PLAN .     The award confirmed by this Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be
amended from time to time in accordance with Section 20 thereof, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.        PROTECTION OF
CONFIDENTIALITY        9.          CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE
SECRETS .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary
information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). Your electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that
derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
         6   

10.          TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of the following types of
Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans;
communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary
company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries,
employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that any unauthorized disclosures by you to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would
constitute gross misconduct within the meaning of the Plan.   
  11.          AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will not, unless you receive prior written consent from the senior human resources officer or such other person designated by the Company
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person, whether or not a competitor of
the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with you when you leave the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential
Information or Trade Secrets.      12.          PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT,
ETC .     (i) By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that if you become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in
Paragraph 14, this would create a substantial risk that you would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the
Company. You further acknowledge that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after you leave the Company. Therefore, by electronically signing Exhibit A, you agree that for a period of one-year after you leave the Company,
before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad you will give written notice to the Sr. HR   
         7   

Officer of your intention to accept such employment or affiliation. You also agree to confer in good
faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether your proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. (ii) If the Sr. HR Officer and you
are unable to reach agreement on this issue, you agree to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. You also agree that you will not begin to work for another
person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Paragraph 14, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the
Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.   
  13.          FAILURE TO COMPLY .     By electronically
accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you fail to comply with any of the promises that you made in Section 11 or 12 above, you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the market value of any
shares of Common Stock received) which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when you leave the Company or (ii) the date you fail to comply with any such promise you made in Section 11 or 12, to
180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with any such promise. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by
the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that
might be owed to you by the Company. You acknowledge that the Company would not have awarded you the shares of Common Stock granted to you under the Agreement absent your agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 11 and 12 above.
       NO DIRECT COMPETITION        14.          NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree for a period of one year
following your departure from the Company, you will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom you had personal contact while you were employed by the Company, for the purpose of
providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. You further agree that for the same time period, you will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity
which is the same as or competitive with the   
         8   

Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director,
proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market which
the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Business  means the transportation of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its
affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by way of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation,
terminal services, and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 14 is not intended to prevent you from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. You acknowledge that the
Company would not have awarded you the shares of Common Stock granted to you under this Agreement absent your agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 14.   
  15.          ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF .     By
electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you have carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed upon you pursuant to Sections 11, 12 and 14. You also agree that
each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to
subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent you from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which you are bound by such restraints. You further
acknowledge that, were you to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 11, 12 and 14, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. You therefore agree that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including,
without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 13 and 16, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against your breach or threaten breach of said covenants. You and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections
11, 12 and 14 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be
modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.   
  16.          VIOLATION OF PROMISES .     By electronically
accepting this Agreement, you agree that if you violate any of your promises in Section 14, then you   
         9   

will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market
value thereof) granted to you by this Agreement which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when you leave the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with the promises you made in
Section 14. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to
enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.   
    GENERAL     
  17.          ARBITRATION .     By electronically accepting
this Agreement, you agree and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to the this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to your employment
relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act, except for claims by the
Company relating to your breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 12 or 14 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under federal, state and local
statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and the law of tort.
You and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which you or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and
you and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs
9, 10, 11, 12 or 14 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full
force and effect despite the expiration or termination of this Agreement or your employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates. You and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and
that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that   
         10   

would have been available to you, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in
court. All expenses of the arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by you and the
Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by you and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
     18.          RESTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
RESULTS .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will return such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company as determined by the Committee in its exclusive
discretion, which shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and you. The Committee will exercise its discretion only in the event that the Committee s certification of a level of ROIC was based on financial results subsequently
revised by a restatement of such financial results and only to the extent that such restated financial results would have entitled you to a lesser award of Common Stock under the Performance Criteria.   
  19.          SEVERABILITY .     If any provision of this
Agreement is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be
stricken and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in force and effect.   
  20.          CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION .     All questions
pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and you hereby consent and submit
to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement.
Sections 12(ii) and 14 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
  21.          EMPLOYMENT AT WILL .     In accordance with
Section 22(a) of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be construed to confer upon any person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary.   
  22.          DEFINED TERMS  .    For purposes of this
Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified in the Plan, unless a different meaning is provided in this Agreement or a different meaning is plainly required by the context.   
         11   

23.          AMENDMENTS .     The Plan and this Agreement may
be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.        
       To confirm
acceptance of the foregoing, kindly enter your password and click the  Accept  button.   
         12   

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-10.(B)>
 3
 d477110dex10b.htm
 FORM OF STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT FOR EXECUTIVES

Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives 

Exhibit 10(b)        

Notice of Grant of Award - Exhibit A         Award Agreement    
      
     Union Pacific Corporation     

ID: 13-2626465    

Union Pacific Corporation    

1400 Douglas Street    

Omaha, NE 68179    

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME    
      
    Award Number:   
        
     OPTION_NUMBER     

ADDRESS_LINE_1    
      
    Plan:   
        
     EQUITY_PLAN     

CITY, STATE ZIPCODE    
      
    ID:   
        
     EMPLOYEE_ID     
         
  Effective February 7, 2013, you have been granted a retention stock unit award of X,XXX units of Union Pacific Corporation (the Company)
common stock. These units are restricted until the Restriction Period Termination Date shown below.       

Type of Grant:    
     
    Retention Units    

Number of Retention Units Granted:    
     
    X,XXX    

Restriction Period:    
     
    4 years    

Restriction Period Commencement Date:    
     
    2/7/2013    

Restriction Period Termination Date:    
     
    2/7/2017    
    Generally, for tax purposes, Retention Units are valued at the time of vesting. The closing price of Union Pacific
Corporation common stock on the vesting date as recorded by  The Wall Street Journal  is used when preparing tax calculations.      We
would like to call your attention to confidentiality and non-compete provisions in the Agreement and recommend that you review the terms and conditions of these provisions as fully set forth in the Agreement. Please note that failure to comply with
these provisions will result in the forfeiture of the award or will require that any value received from the vesting of this award be returned to the Company. In addition, once you accept the terms of the Agreement, these provisions will be binding
on you whether or not the award vests.           
  By accepting this award, you acknowledge that you are bound by all of the terms of the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, as
amended from time to time, and the Agreement delivered herewith, each of which is incorporated by reference in this Exhibit A.   
         1   

STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT       Dated: 2/7/2013      This Agreement (the  Agreement ) will confirm an award to
you of stock units ( Stock Units ), as of the date hereof, by Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company, as amended from time to time (the  Plan ), a copy of which is
included in this grant package on this website and made a part hereof.        STOCK UNITS     
  1.          GRANT OF UNITS .     The Company hereby awards to
you the number of Stock Units shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, each unit evidencing the right to receive, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, (i) one share of Common Stock of the Company,
$2.50 par value per share ( Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ).   
  2.          RESTRICTION PERIOD .     The restriction period
shall be 48 months, commencing on the date hereof and terminating on February 7, 2017, unless sooner terminated under provisions of the Plan not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or under the terms of this Agreement (the
 Restriction Period ).      3.          DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT
RIGHTS .     You will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock have been issued to you following termination of the Restriction Period and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of
those shares. Stock Units shall not entitle you to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock and there are no voting rights with respect to your Stock Units. During the Restriction Period and during any period following the end of the Restriction
Period described in the last sentence of Section 5 hereof in which delivery of shares of Common Stock is delayed, unless otherwise determined by Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the
 Committee ), you shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments. Such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however,
that (i) if you have elected to defer receipt of the Stock Units in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), payment of such Dividend Equivalent
Payments shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 12 of the Plan and (ii) if such Dividend Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units whose payment is delayed as described in the last sentence of Section 5 hereof, on
the date such Stock Units are paid.   
         2   

4.          RESTRICTIONS .     (i) Except as provided in
Section 5 hereof, you shall not be entitled to delivery of the stock until the expiration of the Restriction Period; (ii) none of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of prior to
the payment of the Stock Units to you as provided in Section 5 hereof; (iii) your right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earlier of your separation from
service with the Company or a Subsidiary, or at the end of the Restriction Period, except as provided in the last sentence of Section 4 hereof; and (iv) all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of your rights to such Stock Units
and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless you remain in the continuous employment of the Company or a Subsidiary for the entire Restriction Period, except as provided by
Section 9(c) and Section 9(d) of the Plan and the following sentence. Section 9(e) and Section 9(f) of the Plan pertaining to the vesting and payment of Stock Units upon Age 65 Retirement Status shall not be applicable, and
instead, in the event you remain continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2013, and are age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan
( 62/10 Status ) at any time during the Restriction Period during your period of continuous employment, you shall (i) receive payment for all of the Stock Units shown on Exhibit A as provided in Section 5 hereof, and (ii) be
entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance with Section 3 hereof until the earlier of the end of the Restriction Period or payment of the Stock Units under Section 5 hereof, in each case, notwithstanding any separation
from service with the Company or a Subsidiary on or after attaining 62/10 Status.   
  5.          PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS .     Subject to
Section 4 and Section 6 hereof, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units shall be delivered to you (through your account at the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) or your beneficiary or
estate, as the case may be, free of all restrictions within thirty (30) days of the first to occur of your right to payment arising under Sections 9(c) or (d) (for purposes of each such section, treating 62/10 Status as Retirement Status)
of the Plan or the end of the Restriction Period, provided, however, if your Stock Units are  deferred compensation  subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, they shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the end of the
Restriction Period in the event that your right to payment (i) under Sections 9(c)(i)(B) or (d)(i) (for purposes of each such section, treating 62/10 Status as Retirement Status) of the Plan arises before the end of the Restriction Period and
after your attaining 62/10 Status, (ii) arises under Section 9(c)(iii) of the Plan, or (iii) arises under Section 9(d)(ii) of the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any
shares of Common Stock during any period in which the Company reasonably anticipates that the delivery of shares hereunder would: (A) violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to
  
         3   

any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with
securities or other regulatory requirements; or (B) result in the reduction or elimination of the Company s deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 162(m) with respect to such delivery of shares, and (ii) the date on which
shares are delivered to you (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters;
provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units or, if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s
discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) for Stock Units not subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies the  short-term deferral  exception
described in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and for Stock Units subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies Treas. Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(7).   
  6.          DEFERRAL .     You may elect to defer receipt of
payment of shares underlying the Stock Units pursuant to the terms of, and in accordance with the provisions of, the Deferred Compensation Plan. If you do so elect to defer payment of shares underlying the Stock Units, such payments will be made in
accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan.   
  7.          WITHHOLDING .     Upon payment of the Stock Units,
you must arrange for the payment to the Company (through the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) of all applicable withholding taxes resulting therefrom promptly after notification of the amount thereof. You may elect
to have shares withheld to pay withholding taxes, but only at the statutory minimum rate, if a proper election is made to pay withholding taxes in this manner.      8.          SUBJECT TO PLAN .     The award confirmed by this Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as the same may be
amended from time to time in accordance with Section 20 thereof, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.        PROTECTION OF
CONFIDENTIALITY        9.          CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE
SECRETS.      By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary
information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). Your electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that
derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
         4   

10.          TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of the following types of
Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans;
communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary
company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries,
employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that any unauthorized disclosures by you to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would
constitute gross misconduct within the meaning of the Plan.   
  11.          AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will not, unless you receive prior written consent from the senior human resources officer or such other person designated by the Company
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person, whether or not a competitor of
the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with you when you leave the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential
Information or Trade Secrets.      12.          PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT,
ETC .     (i) By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that if you become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in
Paragraph 14, this would create a substantial risk that you would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the
Company. You further acknowledge that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after you leave the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a period of one-year after you leave the
Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad you will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of your intention to accept such employment or affiliation. You also agree to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR
Officer concerning whether your proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without   
         5   

improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. (ii) If the Sr. HR Officer and
you are unable to reach agreement on this issue, you agree to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. You also agree that you will not begin to work for another
person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Paragraph 14, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the
Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.   
  13.          FAILURE TO COMPLY .     By electronically
accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you fail to comply with any of the promises that you made in Section 11 or 12 above, you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the market value of any
shares of Common Stock received) which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when you leave the Company or (ii) the date you fail to comply with any such promise you made in Section 11 or 12, to
180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with any such promise. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by
the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that
might be owed to you by the Company. You acknowledge that the Company would not have awarded you the shares of Common Stock granted to you under this Agreement absent your agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 11 and 12 above.
       NO DIRECT COMPETITION        14.          NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a period of one
year following your departure from the Company, you will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom you had personal contact while you were employed by the Company, for the purpose
of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. You further agree that for the same time period, you will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity
which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital
stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Business  means
the transportation of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services   
         6   

directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way of
example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 14 is not intended to prevent you
from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. You acknowledge that the Company would not have awarded you the shares of Common Stock granted to you under this Agreement absent your agreement to be bound by
the promises made in this Section 14.      15.          ACKNOWLEDGMENT;
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you have carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed upon you
pursuant to Sections 11, 12 and 14. You also agree that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and
every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent you from obtaining other suitable employment during the
period in which you are bound by such restraints. You further acknowledge that, were you to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 11, 12 and 14, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. You therefore agree that the Company, in
addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 13 and 16, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against your breach or threaten breach of said covenants. You and the Company further
agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 11, 12 and 14 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a
range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.      16.          VIOLATION OF PROMISES .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that if you violate any of your promises in
Section 14, then you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) granted to you by this Agreement which you received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when you
leave the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with the promises you made in Section 14. You agree that you will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the
Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value
of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.   
         7   

GENERAL     
  17.          ARBITRATION.      By electronically accepting
this Agreement, you agree and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to your employment relationship
with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act, except for claims by the Company
relating to your breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 12 or 14 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under federal, state and local statutory or
common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and the law of tort. You and the
Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which you or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and you and the
Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 9, 10, 11,
12 or 14 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and
effect despite the expiration or termination of this Agreement or your employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates. You and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that
judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to you,
the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the
direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by you and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by you and the Company
unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.   
  18.          SEVERABILITY .     If any provision of this
Agreement is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be
stricken and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in force and effect.   
         8   

19.          CHOICE OF LAW;
JURISDICTION .     All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of
laws doctrine. The Company and you hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action
or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement. Sections 12(ii) and 14 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.      20.          EMPLOYMENT AT WILL .     In accordance with Section 22(a) of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be construed to confer upon
any person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary.   
  21.          DEFINED TERMS  .    For purposes of this
Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified in the Plan, unless a different meaning is provided in this Agreement or a different meaning is plainly required by the context.   
  22.          AMENDMENTS .     The Plan and this Agreement may
be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.        
       To confirm
acceptance of the foregoing, kindly enter your password and click the  Accept  button.   
         9   

</EX-10.(B)>

<EX-10.(C)>
 4
 d477110dex10c.htm
 FORM OF NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT FOR EXECUTIVES

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives 

Exhibit 10(c)        

FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME    
      
     Option Number:    
        
     OPTION_NUMBER                     
 
     ADDRESS_LINE_1    
      
     Plan:    
        
     EQUITY_PLAN     
 
     CITY-, STATE ZIPCODE    
      
     ID:    
        
     EMPLOYEE_ID     
         
  Effective February 7, 2013, you have been granted a Non-Qualified Stock Option to buy X,XXX shares of Union Pacific Corporation (the Company)
stock at $XXXX per share. The option price is the closing price of Union Pacific Corporation common stock on the date of grant as recorded by  The Wall Street Journal.       Shares in each period will become fully vested on the date shown.       
    We would like to call your attention to confidentiality and non-compete provisions in the Agreement and recommend
that you review the terms and conditions of these provisions as fully set forth in the Agreement. Please note that failure to comply with these provisions will result in the forfeiture of the award or will require that any value received from the
vesting of this award be returned to the Company. In addition, once you accept the terms of the Agreement, these provisions will be binding on you whether or not the award vests.   
          By accepting this award, you acknowledge that you are bound by all of the terms of the Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and the Agreement delivered herewith, each of which is incorporated by
reference in this Exhibit A.   

EXECUTIVE NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT     
  Dated: 2/7/2013   
  This Agreement (the  Agreement ) will confirm a grant to you of a non-qualified stock option ( NQ ) as of the
date hereof, by Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), under the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan of the Company (the  Plan ), a copy of which is included in this grant package on this website and made a part hereof.   
    OPTION     
  1.          GRANT OF OPTION .     The Company hereby grants to
you an NQ to purchase all or any part of the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company, par value $2.50 per share ( Common Stock ), as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, on the terms and conditions as set forth herein and in the
Plan.      2.          OPTION PRICE .     The price at
which the option shares may be purchased under the NQ (the  Option Price ) is shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, said price having been determined in accordance with the procedures established by a committee of the Board of Directors
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6(a) of the Plan.   
  3.          DURATION AND EXERCISE OF THE OPTION .     The NQ
shall be exercisable upon the terms and conditions of the Plan, as supplemented by this Agreement and not otherwise.   
  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the NQ may be exercised, at any time and from time to time, but only during the period
beginning on February 7, 2014, for one third of the total number of shares as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, on February 7, 2015, for an additional one third of the total number of shares as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement, and
on February 7, 2016, for an additional one third of the total number of shares as shown on Exhibit A of this Agreement and ending on February 7, 2023. The NQ must be exercised in portions of 100 shares, or any integral multiple thereof,
except to complete the exercise of the NQ.      The NQ is also subject to forfeiture or certain time limits for exercise in
the event of your termination of employment or death, as provided in Section 6(g) of the Plan and the following sentence. Section 6(g) of the Plan with respect to the forfeiture of the shares of the NQ that have not vested prior to
retirement shall not be applicable, and instead, in the event you remain continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2013, and retire at or after attaining age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of
the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan, you shall be able to exercise the NQ in accordance with and at the times described in the previous paragraph of this Section 3, notwithstanding your separation
  
         2   

from service with the Company or a Subsidiary, for a period of five (5) years following your
separation from service.      Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no NQ may be exercised subsequent to
February 7, 2023. If this expiration date or any other expiration date described herein falls on a weekend or any other day on which the New York Stock Exchange is not open, you may not exercise your NQ after 3:45 p.m. New York time on the last
New York Stock Exchange trading day prior to the expiration date.   
  4.          METHOD OF EXERCISE .     The NQ may be exercised,
during your lifetime, only by you. Exercise of the NQ shall be by appropriate notice accompanied by valid payment in the form of (a) a check; (b) an attestation form confirming your current ownership of whole shares of Company Common Stock
equal in value to the Option Price; and/or (c) an authorization to sell shares equal in value to the Option Price. Notices and authorizations shall be delivered and all checks shall be payable to the Company s third party stock plan
administrator for the Company, or as otherwise directed by the Company. Shares of Common Stock will be issued as soon as practicable. You will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock have been issued to you following
exercise of the NQ. For administrative or other reasons, including, but not limited to the Company s determination that the exercisability of the NQ would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws, the Company may from time to time
suspend the ability of employees to exercise an NQ for limited periods of time, which suspensions shall not change the period in which the NQ is exercisable.      5.          APPLICABILITY OF THE PLAN .     This Agreement and the NQ granted hereunder are subject to all of the terms and conditions of the
Plan, as the same may be amended in accordance with Section 20 thereof, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, and may not be assigned or transferred, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution in the case of your death, as
provided in paragraph (f) of Section 6 of the Plan.   
  6.          WITHHOLDING TAXES .     Upon exercise of the NQ,
you must arrange for the payment to the Company (through the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) of all applicable withholding taxes resulting from such exercise promptly after notification of the amount thereof. You
may elect to have shares withheld to pay withholding taxes, but only at the statutory minimum rate, if a proper election is made to pay withholding taxes in this manner.        PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY     
  7.          CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS .     By
electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential or proprietary information concerning the assets, business
or affairs of the Company or any   
         3   

Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). Your electronic acceptance
also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to
protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).      8.          TYPES OF
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of the following types
of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans;
communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary
company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries,
employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that any unauthorized disclosures by you to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would
constitute gross misconduct within the meaning of the Plan.   
  9.            AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that you will not, unless you receive prior written consent from the senior human resources officer or such other person designated by the Company
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person, whether or not a competitor of
the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with you when you leave the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential
Information or Trade Secrets.      10.          PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT,
ETC .     (i) By electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that if you become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in
Paragraph 12, this would create a substantial risk that you would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the
Company. You further acknowledge that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after you leave the Company. Therefore, by   
         4   

electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a period of one-year after you leave the
Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad you will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of your intention to accept such employment or affiliation. You also agree to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR
Officer concerning whether your proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. (ii) If the Sr. HR Officer and you are unable to reach
agreement on this issue, you agree to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. You also agree that you will not begin to work for another person or entity
engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Paragraph 12, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s
Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      11.          FAILURE TO
COMPLY .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you fail to comply with any of the promises that you made in Section 9 or 10 above, (a) the NQ, to the extent then unexercised, whether
vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any
shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the NQ less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by you upon exercise of the NQ at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when you
leave the Company or (ii) the date you fail to comply with any such promise that you made in Section 9 or 10, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have not complied with any such promise. You agree that you will
deliver such amount (either in cash or in shares of Common Stock) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal
means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company. You acknowledge that the Company would not have awarded you the shares of
Common Stock granted to you under this Agreement absent your agreement to be bound by the promises made in Section 9 and 10 above.   
    NO DIRECT COMPETITION        12.          NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION .     By electronically accepting this Agreement, you agree that for a period of one
year following your departure from the Company, you will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom you had personal contact while you were employed by the Company, for the purpose
of providing the customers with goods and/or   
         5   

services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. You
further agree that for the same time period, you will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director,
proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in
which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Business  means the transportation of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through for any state in which the Company or any of its
affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by way of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation,
terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 12 is not intended to prevent you from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. You acknowledge that the
Company would not have awarded you the shares of Common Stock granted to you under this Agreement absent your agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 12.   
  13.          ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF .     By
electronically accepting this Agreement, you acknowledge that you have carefully read and considered all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the restraints imposed upon you pursuant to Sections 9, 10 and 12. You also agree that
each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to
subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent you from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which you are bound by such restraints. You further
acknowledge that, were you to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 9, 10 and 12, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. You therefore agree that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without
limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 11 and 14, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against your breach or threaten breach of said covenants. You and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 9, 10 and
12 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to
permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.   
  14.          VIOLATION OF PROMISES .     By electronically
accepting this Agreement, you agree that, if you violate any of the promises that you made in Section 12 above, (a) the NQ,   
         6   

to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited and
cancelled and (b) you will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the NQ less
the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by you upon exercise of the NQ at any time from 180 days prior to the date when you leave the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that you have
not complied with any such promise. You agree that you will deliver such amount (either in cash or in shares of Common Stock) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. You further agree that the Company will be
entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to you by the Company.   
    GENERAL     
  15.          ARBITRATION .     By electronically accepting
this Agreement, you agree and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to your employment relationship
with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act, except for claims by the Company
relating to your breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under federal, state and local statutory or
common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and the law of tort. You and the
Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which you or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and you and the
Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10
or 12 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect
despite the expiration or termination of this Agreement or your employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates. You and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon
the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to you, the
  
         7   

Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the arbitration,
including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by you and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or
unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by you and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.   
  16.          SEVERABILITY .     If any provision of this
Agreement is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be
stricken and the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in force and effect.   
  17.          CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION .     All questions
pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and you hereby consent and submit
to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement.
Sections 10(ii) and 12 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
  18.          EMPLOYMENT AT WILL .     In accordance with
Section 22(a) of the Plan, this Agreement shall not be construed to confer upon any person any right to be continued in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary.   
  19.          DEFINED TERMS .     For purposes of this
Agreement, capitalized terms shall have the meanings specified in the Plan, unless a different meaning is provided in this Agreement or a different meaning is plainly required by the context.   
  20.          AMENDMENTS .     The Plan and this Agreement may
be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.        
       To
confirm acceptance of the foregoing, kindly enter your password and click the  Accept  button.   
         8   

</EX-10.(C)>

<EX-12>
 5
 d477110dex12.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12        RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies    

95   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 d477110dex21.htm
 LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

List of significant subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21        SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        

Name of Corporation   
      
  State of Incorporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company   

Delaware  

Southern Pacific Rail Corporation   

Utah  

96   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 d477110dex23.htm
 INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM'S CONSENT

Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's Consent 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 33-12513, Registration Statement No. 33-53968, Registration Statement No. 33-49785, Registration Statement No. 33-49849, Registration Statement
No. 333-10797, Registration Statement No. 333-13115, Registration Statement No. 333-88709, Registration Statement No. 333-61856, Registration Statement No. 333-42768, Registration Statement No. 333-106707, Registration
Statement No. 333-106708, Registration Statement No. 333-105714, Registration Statement No. 333-105715, Registration Statement No. 333-116003, Registration Statement No. 333-132324, Registration Statement
No. 333-155708, Registration Statement No. 333-170209, and Registration Statement No. 333-170208 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-164842 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 8, 2013, relating to the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) and the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies for the year ended December 31, 2012.       

Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 8, 2013   
         97   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 d477110dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of attorney 

Exhibit 24        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Powers of Attorney    
  Each of the undersigned directors of Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the Company), do hereby appoint each of John J. Koraleski,
Barbara W. Schaefer, and James J. Theisen, Jr. his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, to sign on his or her behalf the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2012, and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned have executed this Power of Attorney as of February 7, 2013.       

/s/ Andrew H. Card, Jr.     Andrew H. Card, Jr.   

/s/ Michael R. McCarthy     Michael R. McCarthy    

/s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.     Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   

/s/ Michael W. McConnell     Michael W. McConnell    

/s/ Thomas J. Donohue     Thomas J. Donohue   

/s/ Thomas F. McLarty III     Thomas F. McLarty III    

/s/ Archie W. Dunham     Archie W. Dunham   

/s/ Steven R. Rogel     Steven R. Rogel    

/s/ Judith Richards Hope     Judith Richards Hope   

/s/ Jose H. Villarreal     Jose H. Villarreal    

/s/ Charles C. Krulak     Charles C. Krulak   

/s/ James R. Young     James R. Young    
 
         98   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 9
 d477110dex31a.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO

Section 302 Certifications of CEO 

Exhibit 31(a)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER       I, John J. Koraleski, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 8, 2013       /s/ John J. Koraleski       John J. Koraleski   
  President and      Chief Executive Officer   
         99   

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 10
 d477110dex31b.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATIONS OF CFO

Section 302 Certifications of CFO 

Exhibit 31(b)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER       I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 8, 2013       /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.       Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
  Executive Vice President   Finance and   
  Chief Financial Officer   
         100   

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 11
 d477110dex32.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO

Section 906 Certifications of CEO and CFO 

Exhibit 32        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    
   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the Report), I, John J. Koraleski, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of
my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ John J. Koraleski       John J. Koraleski      President and   
  Chief Executive Officer      Union
Pacific Corporation      February 8, 2013      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO    
   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
  Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President - Finance and
     Chief Financial Officer      Union Pacific Corporation
     February 8, 2013      A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   
         101   

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 unp-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 unp-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 unp-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 unp-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 unp-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 unp-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

