<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150206_10-K_edgar_data_100885_0001193125-15-037518_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15431829</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>407762</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4223101</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3149522</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4490392</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2815201</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>108</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-15-037518.hdr.sgml : 20150206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150206170109
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-15-037518
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		29
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNION PACIFIC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000100885
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING [4011]
		IRS NUMBER:				132626465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			UT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06075
		FILM NUMBER:		15585340

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179
		BUSINESS PHONE:		402 544 5214

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-15-037518.txt : 20150206

10-K
 1
 d865355d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K    
   (Mark One)        

[X]  
    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014    
   OR       

[    ]  
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the transition period from                        to
                         
    Commission File Number 1-6075         UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

UTAH   

13-2626465    
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer     Identification No.)    
     1400 DOUGLAS STREET, OMAHA, NEBRASKA       (Address of principal executive offices)       68179    
  (Zip Code)       (402) 544-5000
      (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of each Class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock (Par Value $2.50 per share)   
      
   New York Stock Exchange, Inc.    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      
           Yes            
         No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required
to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).
                 Yes                     No                   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
 Form 10-K.                     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      
  Large accelerated filer  
               Accelerated filer                  
Non-accelerated  filer                 Smaller
reporting company            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).      
           Yes            
         No            
     As of June 30, 2014, the aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York
Stock Exchange closing price) was $89.4 billion.      The number of shares outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock as of January 30, 2015 was
881,284,029.           

Table of Contents  

    Documents Incorporated by Reference    Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 14, 2015, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. The registrant s Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A.       UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION          TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Chairman s Letter    

3  

Directors and Senior Management    

4  

PART I     

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

5  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    

10  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

14  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

14  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    

16  

Item 4.   
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

18  

Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries    

19  

PART II     

Item 5.   
     
     Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

20  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    

22  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

23  

Critical Accounting Policies    

43  

Cautionary Information    

48  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

49  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

50  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

51  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

85  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    

85  

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

86  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

87  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    

88  

PART III     

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance    

88  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    

88  

Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

89  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    

89  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

89  

PART IV     

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

90  

Signatures    

91  

Certifications     

101  

2   

Table of Contents  

     February 6, 2015   
  Fellow Shareholders:      I am happy
to report another successful year for Union Pacific in 2014. We set numerous financial records, achieving record earnings per share of $5.75 while improving our operating ratio to a record low 63.5 percent, 2.6 points better than 2013. Our return on
invested capital* was an all-time high of 16.2 percent, up 1.5 percentage points year-over-year. As a result, Union Pacific was able to reward its shareholders with increased returns in 2014. We increased our quarterly declared dividend per share
twice last year, with total dividends declared for 2014 growing 29 percent compared to the full year 2013. We also repurchased $3.2 billion in Union Pacific shares, a 45 percent increase from 2013. UP s stock price reached an all-time high in
2014, increasing 42 percent, and outpacing the S P 500 by 30 percentage points.      Union Pacific handled robust volume growth of 7
percent last year. A record grain harvest and increased frac sand shipments drove particularly strong growth in Agricultural Products and Industrial Products, respectively. Increased international volumes and continued highway-to-rail conversions
also drove strong growth in Intermodal. Our Automotive and Coal businesses recorded modest volume gains over 2013, while our Chemicals business was up slightly, as growth in base chemicals more than offset a decline in crude-by-rail shipments during
the year.      Throughout the year we maintained our unrelenting focus on safety. We achieved an all-time record low reportable personal
injury rate while the reportable rate for rail equipment incidents improved 7 percent over last year. The team has made great progress on our way toward achieving our ultimate goal of an incident free environment. Our commitment to risk reduction,
Courage to Care, and Total Safety Culture will continue to lead the way so that every employee returns home safely.      Strong carload
growth combined with significant weather disruptions to affect the performance of our network during 2014. Average system velocity, as reported to the AAR, decreased 8 percent and average terminal dwell increased 12 percent when compared to 2013.
Throughout 2014 we worked hard to improve the fluidity of our network and the service we provided to our customers. In total, we increased our TE Y workforce by more than 1,700 employees and added around 800 locomotives, including 261 new units,
to our active fleet. We are encouraged by the progress we have made, and remain committed to further improvement.      Our capital program
helps ensure we have the resources and network capacity required to handle our current volumes as well as future growth. In total we spent $4.1 billion in 2014, strengthening the franchise. This included $2.3 billion in replacement capital to harden
our infrastructure, and to improve the safety and resiliency of our network. In addition, we spent $1.4 billion on service, growth, and productivity initiatives driven by investments in capacity, commercial facilities, and equipment. We also
continued to make progress toward completing the federally mandated Positive Train Control project. Going forward, we will continue to focus on generating the strong returns needed to support our ongoing capital investment.   
  With our extensive geographic coverage, our unparalleled access to Gulf and West Coast ports, and the industry s best access to Mexico, Union
Pacific is well-positioned to compete successfully across a wide variety of business segments. In a dynamic environment, this diversity is a great strength of our franchise, which will enable us to serve the growing markets of tomorrow.   
  As always, there will be challenges to overcome in the year ahead, but we also see growth opportunities to be realized across many of our business
sectors. Efficiency is also a cornerstone of our success, and we will continue to build on the progress we ve made in improving our network capabilities so we can provide the safe, reliable service our customers expect and deserve.   
  I could not be more proud of the dedicated men and women of Union Pacific who have worked so hard to achieve our success this past year. I am
confident that our team will continue to develop the potential of our strong franchise, enhancing the value proposition for our customers, and providing increasing returns for our shareholders.   

Chairman   

3  
     
  *See Item 7 of this report for reconciliations to U.S. GAAP.    

Table of Contents  

      DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT    

BOARD OF DIRECTORS     

Andrew H. Card, Jr.      President     Franklin Pierce University  
   Board Committees: Audit, Compensation and Benefits       
   Erroll B. Davis, Jr.      Former
Chairman,     President   CEO     Alliant Energy Corporation      Board Committees: Compensation   
   and Benefits (Chair), Corporate   
   Governance and Nominating       
   David B. Dillon      Former
Chairman     The Kroger Company  
   Board Committees:   Audit,   
   Compensation and Benefits       
   Lance M. Fritz      President and  
  Chief Executive Officer     Union
Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company   
      
     Judith Richards Hope      Emerita Professor of Law and     Distinguished Visitor from Practice  
  Georgetown University Law Center  
   Board Committees: Corporate       Governance and
Nominating,        Finance       
   John J. Koraleski      Chairman of
the Board     Union Pacific Corporation and     Union Pacific Railroad Company          Charles C. Krulak      General, USMC, Ret.  
  President     Birmingham   Southern
College      Board Committees: Audit, Finance   
       Michael R. McCarthy   
  Chairman     McCarthy Group, LLC  
   Board Committees:   Corporate       Governance and
Nominating,       Finance   (Chair)    
      
     Michael W. McConnell   
  General Partner and     Former Managing
Partner     Brown Brothers Harriman   Co.  
   Board Committees: Audit   (Chair),     
   Finance           Thomas F. McLarty III      President     McLarty Associates      Board Committees:   Finance  ,   
   Corporate Governance and       Nominating   
       Steven R. Rogel      Former Chairman     Weyerhaeuser Company      Lead Independent   Director       Board Committees:   Compensation   
   and Benefits, Corporate Governance       and Nominating
(Chair)           Jose H. Villarreal   
  Advisor     Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer    
  Feld, LLP      Board Committees:   Audit,   
     Compensation and Benefits      

SENIOR MANAGEMENT    

John J. Koraleski      Chairman of the Board     Union Pacific Corporation and  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company      
   Lance M. Fritz      President
and     Chief Executive Officer  
  Union Pacific Corporation and     Union
Pacific Railroad Company          Eric L.
Butler      Executive Vice President-     Marketing and Sales     Union Pacific Railroad Company  
       Diane K. Duren   
  Executive Vice President and  
  Corporate Secretary     Union Pacific
Corporation          Mary Sanders Jones   
  Vice President and Treasurer     Union
Pacific Corporation   
      
     D. Lynn Kelley      Vice President Supply and     Continuous Improvement  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company      
   Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
  Executive Vice President Finance  
  and Chief Financial Officer     Union
Pacific Corporation          Joseph E. O Connor,
Jr.      Vice President Labor Relations     Union Pacific Railroad Company          Patrick J. O Malley      Vice President Taxes and General  
  Tax Counsel     Union Pacific
Corporation          Michael A. Rock   
  Vice President External Relations  
  Union Pacific Corporation   
      
     Cameron A. Scott      Executive Vice President       Operations  
  Union Pacific Railroad Company      
   Lynden L. Tennison      Senior
Vice President and     Chief Information Officer     Union Pacific Corporation          Gayla L. Thal      Senior Vice President Law  
  and General Counsel     Union Pacific
Corporation          Jeffrey P. Totusek   
  Vice President and Controller     Union
Pacific Corporation          Robert W. Turner   
  Senior Vice President   
  Corporate Relations     Union Pacific
Corporation    
 
         4   

Table of Contents  

       PART I           Item 1.  Business          GENERAL    
  Union Pacific Railroad is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America s most recognized companies, Union
Pacific Railroad links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain. The Railroad s diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal,
Industrial Products and Intermodal. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada s rail systems and is the only
railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible manner.   
  Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.
The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP .   
  For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to  UPC ,  Corporation ,
 Company ,  we ,  us , and  our  shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as  UPRR  or the
 Railroad .       Available Information    Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our
website (under the  Investors  caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4,
and 5, filed on behalf of our directors and certain executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We provide these reports and statements as soon
as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the
SEC s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are
available on our website. From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our
company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.
     We have included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certifications regarding our public disclosure
required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31(a) and (b) to this report.      References to our website
address in this report, including references in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation
by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.       OPERATIONS       The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one
reportable operating segment. Although we provide revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and
operations, including revenue and financial information and data and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item  Selected Financial Data, Item 
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item  and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding revenues, statements of income, and total
assets).   
         5   

Table of Contents  

Operations    UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 31,974 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and
eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the Western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific
Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. Our freight traffic consists of bulk, manifest, and premium business.
Bulk traffic primarily consists of coal, grain, soda ash, ethanol, rock and crude oil shipped in unit trains   trains transporting a single commodity from one source to one destination. Manifest traffic includes individual carload or less than
train-load business involving   
     
     2014 Freight Revenue       

commodities such as lumber, steel, paper, food and chemicals. The transportation of finished vehicles, auto parts,
intermodal containers and truck trailers are included as part of our premium business. In 2014, we generated freight revenues totaling $22.6 billion from the following six commodity groups:   
   Agricultural Products    Transportation of grains, commodities produced from these grains, and food and beverage products generated 17%
of the Railroad s 2014 freight revenue. The Company accesses most major grain markets, linking the Midwest and Western U.S. producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports, as well as Mexico. We also serve
significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders and ethanol producers in the Midwest, West, South and Rocky Mountain states. Unit trains, which transport a single commodity between producers and export terminals or domestic
markets, represent approximately 42% of our agricultural shipments.       Automotive    We are the largest automotive carrier west
of the Mississippi River and operate or access over 40 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad s extensive franchise serves five vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports, Mexico gateways and the Gulf of Mexico to accommodate
both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, UPRR provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S. and Canada. The automotive group generated
9% of Union Pacific s freight revenue in 2014.       Chemicals    Transporting chemicals generated 16% of our freight revenue
in 2014. The Railroad s unique franchise serves the chemical producing areas along the Gulf Coast, where roughly 60% of the Company s chemical business originates, terminates or travels. Our chemical franchise also accesses chemical
producers in the Rocky Mountains and on the West Coast. The Company s chemical shipments include four broad categories: petrochemicals, fertilizer, soda ash, and other. Petrochemicals include industrial chemicals, plastics, and petroleum
products, including crude oil and liquid petroleum gases. Currently, these products move primarily to and from the Gulf Coast region. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, the western U.S. and Canada (through interline access) for
delivery to major agricultural users in the Midwest, western U.S., as well as abroad. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad. Other shipments include
sodium products, phosphorus rock and sulfur.       Coal    Shipments of coal and petroleum coke accounted for 18% of our freight
revenue in 2014. The Railroad s network supports the transportation of coal and petroleum coke to independent and regulated power companies and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports, UPRR s reach
extends to eastern U.S. utilities, Mexico, Europe and Asia. Water terminals allow the Railroad to move western U.S. coal east via the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, as well as the Great Lakes. Export coal moves through West Coast ports to Asia and
through the Mississippi River and Houston to Europe. Coal traffic originating in the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) area of Wyoming is the largest segment of the Railroad s coal business.   
   Industrial Products    Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and
destination points throughout North America. The Industrial Products group consists of several categories, including construction products, minerals, consumer goods, metals,   
         6   

Table of Contents  

lumber, paper, and other miscellaneous products. In 2014, this group generated 20% of Union Pacific s total freight revenue. Commercial, residential and governmental infrastructure
investments drive shipments of steel, aggregates (cement components), cement and wood products. Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, frac sand, stone and drilling fluid commodities. Industrial and light manufacturing
plants receive steel, nonferrous materials, minerals and other raw materials. Paper and packaging commodities, as well as appliances, move to major metropolitan areas for consumers. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest and
western Canada and move throughout the U.S. for use in new home construction and repair and remodeling.       Intermodal    Our
Intermodal business includes two segments: international and domestic. International business consists of import and export container traffic that mainly passes through West Coast ports served by UPRR s extensive terminal network. Domestic
business includes container and trailer traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies), as well as truckload carriers. Less-than-truckload and package
carriers with time-sensitive business requirements are also an important part of domestic shipments. Together, international and domestic business generated 20% of UPC s 2014 freight revenue.   
   Seasonality    Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity (such
as certain agricultural and food products that have specific growing and harvesting seasons) and the demand cycle for the commodity (such as intermodal traffic that generally peaks during the third quarter to meet holiday-related demand for consumer
goods during the fourth quarter). The peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably each year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies and the strength of
harvests and market prices for agricultural products. In response to an annual request from the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to all of the Class I railroads operating in the U.S., we submit a
publicly available letter during the third quarter detailing our plans for handling traffic during the third and fourth quarters and providing other information requested by the STB.   
   Working Capital    At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had a modest working capital surplus, which provides enhanced liquidity. In
addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.   
   Competition    We are subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Our main
railroad competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC. Its primary subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor
carriers. Motor carrier competition exists for five of our six commodity groups (excluding most coal shipments). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for
grain and bulk commodities in certain areas where we operate. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times, quality and reliability of service from motor carriers and other railroads. Motor carriers in
particular can have an advantage over railroads with respect to transit times and timeliness of service. However, railroads are much more fuel-efficient than trucks, which reduces the impact of transporting goods on the environment and public
infrastructure, and we have been making efforts to convert certain truck traffic to rail. Additionally, we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system; trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any
of the following could also affect the competitiveness of our transportation services for some or all of our commodities: (i) improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of
transportation, (ii) legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the size or weight limitations applied to motor carriers, or (iii) legislation or regulatory changes that impose operating restrictions on railroads or that
adversely affect the profitability of some or all railroad traffic. For more information regarding risks we face from competition, see the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report.   
   Key Suppliers    We depend on two key domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives. Due to the capital intensive nature of the
locomotive manufacturing business and sophistication of this equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers of entry into this industry. Therefore, if one of these domestic suppliers discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason,
including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience a significant cost increase and risk reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two
steel   
         7   

Table of Contents  

producers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical for maintenance, replacement, improvement, and expansion of our network and facilities. Rail
manufacturing also has high barriers of entry, and, if one of those suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience cost increases and difficulty obtaining rail.   
   Employees    Approximately 85% of our 47,201 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. On January 1,
2015, current labor agreements became subject to modification and we began the current round of negotiations with the unions. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act s procedures (which
include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time and we rarely experience work
stoppages while negotiations are pending.       Railroad Security    Our security efforts consist of a wide variety of measures
including employee training, engagement with our customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security
plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives.       UPRR Security Measures    We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status,
each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police force, consisting of more than 200 commissioned and highly-trained officers. Our employees also undergo recurrent security and preparedness training, as well as federally-mandated
hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations.   
  We operate an emergency response management center 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous
conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, and law enforcement and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter
rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize risk to communities and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We also design our operating plan to expedite the movement
of hazardous material shipments to minimize the time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Agency regulations, we deployed information
systems and instructed employees in tracking and documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Materials with customers and interchange partners.      We also have established a number of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on the Train program, which provides local law
enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assesses cyber security risks and implements mitigation
programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption of our operations due to a cyber threat or attack directed at us.   
   Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies    We work closely on physical and cyber security initiatives with
government agencies, including the DOT and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as well as local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders. In conjunction with the Association of American Railroads (AAR), we sponsor Ask
Rail, a mobile application which provides first responders with secure links to electronic information, including commodity and emergency response information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations. We also
participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism.   
  We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command, which monitor shipments
entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s Customs-  
         8   

Table of Contents  

Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain.   
   Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations    Through TransCAER (Transportation Community Awareness and Emergency Response) we
work with the AAR, the American Chemistry Council, the American Petroleum Institute, and other chemical trade groups to provide communities with preparedness tools, including the training of emergency responders. In cooperation with the Federal
Railroad Administration (FRA) and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials.   
   GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION    
   Governmental Regulation    Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all
businesses. (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.)      The operations of the
Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the STB. The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or
abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. In 2014, the STB continued its efforts to explore whether to expand rail regulation. The STB has requested parties to discuss the STB s methodology for determining
railroad revenue adequacy and the possible use of a revenue adequacy constraint in regulating railroad rates. The STB also held hearings to evaluate the potential impact of expanded reciprocal switching arrangements on railroads. For the past
several legislative sessions, proposed bills have been introduced in Congress that aim to alter the regulatory structure of the railroad industry. We will continue to monitor any legislative activity involving rail and transportation regulation and
respond accordingly.      The operations of the Railroad also are subject to the regulations of the FRA and other federal and state
agencies. On January 12, 2010, the FRA issued initial rules governing installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) by the end of 2015. The final regulation was issued on August 8, 2014. Although still under development, PTC is a collision
avoidance technology intended to override engineer controlled locomotives and stop train-to-train and overspeed accidents, misaligned switch derailments, and unauthorized entry to work zones. Following the issuance of the initial rules, the FRA
acknowledged that projected costs will exceed projected benefits by a ratio of at least 22 to one, and we estimate that our costs will be higher than those assumed by the FRA. In August 2012, the FRA provided Congress with a status report regarding
implementation of PTC. This report indicated that the rail industry will likely achieve only partial deployment of PTC by the current deadline due to significant technical developments, training and deployment, and the delay in issuing the final
rule. Through 2014, we have invested approximately $1.6 billion in the development of PTC. The Company is planning to submit its PTC safety plan to the FRA in the second quarter of 2015.   
  On August 1, 2014, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) issued proposed rules concerning the transportation of
certain flammable liquids. The proposed rules include a variety of possible measures including tank car standards, speed restrictions, braking system requirements, community notification, and operating restrictions. We, along with others in the rail
industry, submitted comments concerning the proposed rules. Railroad operations for the entire industry could be impacted depending on the outcome of the final rules. We will continue to monitor this rulemaking process.   
  DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, PHMSA and DHS, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of
safety, movement of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, emissions requirements, and equipment standards. The Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, among other things, revised hours of service rules for train and certain other railroad employees,
mandated implementation of PTC, imposed passenger service requirements, addressed safety at rail crossings, increased the number of safety related employees of the FRA, and increased fines that may be levied against railroads for safety violations.
Additionally, various state and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in ways not preempted by federal law.   
   Environmental Regulation    We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental statutes and regulations pertaining to public
health and the environment. The statutes and regulations are   
         9   

Table of Contents  

administered and monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and by various state environmental agencies. The primary laws affecting our operations are the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, regulating the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, regulating the cleanup of contaminated properties; the Clean Air Act, regulating air
emissions; and the Clean Water Act, regulating waste water discharges.      Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies
and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7 and Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.         Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
      The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this
report, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8.   
   We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity    If there is significant demand for our services that exceeds
the designed capacity of our network, we may experience network difficulties, including congestion and reduced velocity, that could compromise the level of service we provide to our customers. This level of demand may also compound the impact of
weather and weather-related events on our operations and velocity. Although we continue to improve our transportation plan, add capacity, improve operations at our yards and other facilities, and improve our ability to address surges in demand for
any reason with adequate resources, we cannot be sure that these measures will fully or adequately address any service shortcomings resulting from demand exceeding our planned capacity. We may experience other operational or service difficulties
related to network capacity, dramatic and unplanned fluctuations in demand for rail service with respect to one or more commodities or operating regions, or other events that could negatively impact our operational efficiency, any of which could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In the event that we experience significant reductions in demand for rail services with respect to one or more commodities, we may experience increased
costs associated with resizing our operations, including higher unit operating costs and costs for the storage of locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment; work-force adjustments; and other related activities, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Transport Hazardous Materials    We transport
certain hazardous materials and other materials, including crude oil, ethanol, and toxic inhalation hazard (TIH) materials, such as chlorine, that pose certain risks in the event of a release or combustion. Additionally, U.S. laws impose common
carrier obligations on railroads that require us to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. A rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our facilities, or at the facilities of our
customers involving the release or combustion of hazardous materials could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of our insurance coverage for these risks,
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We Are Subject to
Significant Governmental Regulation    We are subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of federal, state, and local authorities covering a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, economic (as discussed below), and
other matters. Many laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits, and other authorizations, and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and
regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Governments or regulators may change the legislative or regulatory frameworks within which we operate without providing us any recourse to address any adverse effects on our business,
including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution, business relationships with other railroads, calculation of our cost of capital or other inputs relevant to computing our revenue adequacy, the prices we
charge, and costs and expenses. Significant legislative activity in Congress or regulatory activity by the STB could expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network,
facilities and equipment and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. As part of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, rail carriers must currently implement PTC by the end of 2015, which
could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make other capital investments. Rail   
         10   

Table of Contents  

carriers likely will not meet the current mandatory deadline for PTC implementation due to various factors. Additionally, one or more consolidations of Class I railroads could also lead to
increased regulation of the rail industry.       We May Be Affected by General Economic Conditions    Prolonged severe adverse
domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets may affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity and our results of operations
and financial condition.       We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers    We face competition
from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or acquire and maintain our rail
system, trucks, barges and maritime operators are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation,
or legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the burden of the size or weight limitations currently applicable to motor carriers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate.   
   Severe Weather Could Result in Significant Business Interruptions and Expenditures    As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed
to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides, extreme temperatures, and significant precipitation. Line outages and other interruptions caused by these conditions
can adversely affect our entire rail network and can adversely affect revenue, costs, and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   We Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations    We rely on information technology in all aspects of our
business. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or if we are unable to develop or implement new technology such as PTC or the latest version of our transportation control systems, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage
within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, if a cyber attack or other event
causes significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could suffer a significant service interruption, safety failure, security breach,
or other operational difficulties, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Subject to Various Claims and Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures    As a railroad with operations in densely populated urban areas and other cities and a vast rail network,
we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail
accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability that exceed our insurance coverage for such risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and liquidity.       We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Laws and Regulations    Due to the nature of the
railroad business, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; handling, storage, transportation, and disposal of
waste and other materials; and hazardous material or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous and non-hazardous waste in our operations, and we did so in our former operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or
operated properties, leased properties, and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties we currently own. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in
toxic tort litigation. We have been and may be subject to allegations or findings that we have violated, or are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. We currently have certain obligations at existing sites for investigation, remediation
and monitoring, and we likely will have obligations at other sites in the future. Liabilities for these obligations affect our estimate based on our experience and, as necessary, the advice and assistance of our consultants. However, actual costs
may vary from our estimates due to any or all of several factors, including changes to environmental laws or interpretations of such laws, technological changes affecting investigations and remediation, the
  
         11   

Table of Contents  

participation and financial viability of other parties responsible for any such liability and the corrective action or change to corrective actions required to remediate any existing or future
sites. We could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or
Regulatory Responses to Climate Change    Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other
controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs. Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy,
(b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food
producers, and automakers and other manufacturers. Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect
the markets for the commodities we carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also
affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers.
Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. Any of these factors, individually or in operation with
one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations    The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining
agreements with various labor unions. The majority of our employees belong to labor unions and are subject to these agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with
these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other
benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.       The
Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations    Changes in demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service.
Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition, and liquidity.       We May Be Affected By Fluctuating Fuel Prices    Fuel costs constitute a significant
portion of our transportation expenses. Diesel fuel prices can be subject to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we currently are able to recover a
significant amount of our fuel expenses from our customers through revenue from fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through our fuel surcharges. Additionally, future market
conditions or legislative or regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to apply fuel surcharges or adequately recover increased fuel costs through fuel surcharges. As fuel prices fluctuate, our fuel surcharge programs trail such
fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months, and may be a significant source of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year volatility, particularly in periods of rapidly changing prices. International, political, and economic factors, events
and conditions affect the volatility of fuel prices and supplies. Weather can also affect fuel supplies and limit domestic refining capacity. A severe shortage of, or disruption to, domestic fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Alternatively, lower fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could increase demand for various consumer
products we transport. However, lower fuel prices could have a negative impact on other commodities we   
         12   

Table of Contents  

transport, such as coal, frac sand and crude oil shipments, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.   
   We Utilize Capital Markets    Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient
railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements. We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper from time-to-time, and we pledge certain of our receivables. Significant instability or
disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and
other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A significant deterioration of our financial condition could result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment
grade, which could restrict, or at certain credit levels below investment grade may prohibit us, from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility. This may also limit our access to external sources of capital and significantly increase
the costs of short and long-term debt financing.       A Significant Portion of Our Revenue Involves Transportation of Commodities to and
from International Markets    Although revenues from our operations are attributable to transportation services provided in the U.S., a significant portion of our revenues involves the transportation of commodities to and from international
markets, including Mexico and Southeast Asia, by various carriers and, at times, various modes of transportation. Significant and sustained interruptions of trade with Mexico or countries in Southeast Asia, including China, could adversely affect
customers and other entities that, directly or indirectly, purchase or rely on rail transportation services in the U.S. as part of their operations, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity. Any one or more of the following could cause a significant and sustained interruption of trade with Mexico or countries in Southeast Asia: (a) a deterioration of security for international trade and
businesses; (b) the adverse impact of new laws, rules and regulations or the interpretation of laws, rules and regulations by government entities, courts or regulatory bodies, including taxing authorities, that affect our customers doing
business in foreign countries; (c) any significant adverse economic developments, such as extended periods of high inflation, material disruptions in the banking sector or in the capital markets of these foreign countries, and significant
changes in the valuation of the currencies of these foreign countries that could materially affect the cost or value of imports or exports; (d) shifts in patterns of international trade that adversely affect import and export markets; and
(e) a material reduction in foreign direct investment in these countries.       We Are Subject to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal
Developments Involving Taxes    Taxes are a significant part of our expenses. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new
tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity.       We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail    Due to the capital intensive nature and
sophistication of locomotive equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry. Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including bankruptcy or
insolvency, we could experience significant cost increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary for our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers (one domestic and
one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance, and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing facilities. This
industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining
sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects.       We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of War    Our rail
lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of
war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be available to us in the
future.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments     
  None.         Item 2.  Properties 
      We employ a variety of assets in the management and operation of our rail business. Our rail network covers 23 states in the
western two-thirds of the U.S.             

TRACK    
  Our rail network includes 31,974 route miles. We own 26,012 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. The following
table describes track miles at December 31, 2014 and 2013.       
     HEADQUARTERS BUILDING       We own our headquarters building in Omaha, Nebraska. The facility has 1.2 million square feet of space for approximately 4,000 employees.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

    HARRIMAN DISPATCHING CENTER       The Harriman Dispatching Center (HDC), located in Omaha, Nebraska, is our primary dispatching facility. It is linked to regional dispatching and locomotive management facilities at various locations along our
network. HDC employees coordinate moves of locomotives and trains, manage traffic and train crews on our network, and coordinate interchanges with other railroads. Approximately 900 employees currently work on-site in the facility. In the event of a
disruption of operations at HDC due to a cyber attack, flooding or severe weather or other event, we maintain the capability to conduct critical operations at back-up facilities in different locations.   
   RAIL FACILITIES       In addition to our track
structure, we operate numerous facilities, including terminals for intermodal and other freight; rail yards for building trains (classification yards), switching, storage-in-transit (the temporary storage of customer goods in rail cars prior to
shipment) and other activities; offices to administer and manage our operations; dispatching centers to direct traffic on our rail network; crew quarters to house train crews along our network; and shops and other facilities for fueling,
maintenance, and repair of locomotives and repair and maintenance of rail cars and other equipment. The following table includes the major yards and terminals on our system:   

Major Classification Yards   
      
   Major Intermodal Terminals    

North Platte, Nebraska   
      
  ICTF (Los Angeles), California   
 
    North Little Rock, Arkansas   
      
  Global IV (Joliet), Illinois   
 
    Englewood (Houston), Texas   
      
  East Los Angeles, California   
 
    Fort Worth, Texas   
      
  DIT (Dallas), Texas   
 
    Proviso (Chicago), Illinois   
      
  Global I (Chicago), Illinois   
 
    Livonia, Louisiana   
      
  Marion (Memphis), Tennessee   
 
    Roseville, California   
      
  Global II (Chicago), Illinois   
 
    Pine Bluff, Arkansas   
      
  Mesquite, Texas   
 
    West Colton, California   
      
  City of Industry, California   
 
    Neff (Kansas City), Missouri   
      
  Lathrop, California   
     RAIL EQUIPMENT       Our equipment includes owned and leased locomotives and rail cars; heavy maintenance equipment and machinery; other equipment and tools in our shops, offices, and facilities; and vehicles for maintenance,
transportation of crews, and other activities. As of December 31, 2014, we owned or leased the following units of equipment:       
 
         15   

Table of Contents  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES       Our rail network requires significant annual capital investments for replacement, improvement, and expansion. These investments enhance safety, support the transportation needs of our customers, and improve our
operational efficiency. Additionally, we add new locomotives and freight cars to our fleet to replace older, less efficient equipment, to support growth and customer demand, and to reduce our impact on the environment through the acquisition of more
fuel-efficient and low-emission locomotives.       2014 Capital Program    During 2014, our capital program totaled $4.1 billion.
(See the cash capital expenditures table in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financial Condition, Item 7.)   
   2015 Capital Plan    In 2015, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $4.3 billion, which will include expenditures for PTC of
approximately $450 million and may include non-cash investments. We may revise our 2015 capital plan if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See discussion
of our 2015 capital plan in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   2015 Outlook, Item 7.)   
   OTHER        Equipment Encumbrances   
Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured
financing arrangements utilized to acquire or refinance such railroad equipment.      As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad
Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the
mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of
the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.       Environmental Matters    Certain of our properties
are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. (See discussion of environmental issues in Business   Governmental and Environmental Regulation, Item 1, and Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 
7.)         Item 3.  Legal Proceedings        From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and litigation that occur in connection with our business. We routinely assess our liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters
based upon the latest available information and, when necessary, we seek input from our third-party advisors when making these assessments. Consistent with SEC rules and requirements, we describe below material pending legal proceedings (other than
ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business), material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities, other proceedings arising under federal, state, or local environmental laws and regulations (including governmental
proceedings involving potential fines, penalties, or other monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000), and such other pending matters that we may determine to be appropriate.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

    ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS       As previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the Illinois Attorney General s Office notified UPRR on January 14, 2013, that it will seek a
penalty against the Railroad for environmental conditions caused by its predecessor at a former locomotive fueling facility in South Pekin, Illinois. This former CNW facility discontinued fueling operations in the early 1980s. Subsequent
environmental investigation revealed evidence of fuel releases to soil and groundwater. In January 2007, the State rejected UPRR s proposed compliance commitment agreement and responded with a notice of intent to pursue legal action. UPRR
continued to perform remedial investigations under the supervision of the Illinois EPA. In June 2012, the Illinois EPA approved UPRR s proposed remedial action plan for the site, consisting of no further action and monitoring for a period of
ten years. Subsequently, the State notified UPRR that it would seek to recover a civil penalty, and during early negotiations, it offered to settle its claim for $240,000. UPRR rejected this offer. The State sued UPRR on October 26, 2013, in
the Circuit Court for the Tenth Judicial Circuit, Tazewell County, Illinois. Through continued settlement negotiations, the parties have reached a tentative agreement to settle this matter in exchange for a payment by UPRR of $100,000. Final terms
for a written agreement are being developed.      We received notices from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are or
may be liable under federal or state environmental laws for remediation costs at various sites throughout the U.S., including sites on the Superfund National Priorities List or state superfund lists. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these
proceedings and suits because of the number of potentially responsible parties involved, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of
remediation costs.      Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.       OTHER MATTERS        Antitrust Litigation    As we reported in our Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, 20 rail shippers (many of whom are represented by the same law firms) filed virtually identical antitrust lawsuits in various federal district courts against us and four other Class I railroads in
the U.S. Currently, UPRR and three other Class I railroads are the named defendants in the lawsuit. The original plaintiff filed the first of these claims in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey on May 14, 2007. The number of complaints
reached a total of 30. These suits allege that the named railroads engaged in price-fixing by establishing common fuel surcharges for certain rail traffic.      In addition to suits filed by direct purchasers of rail transportation services, a few of the suits involved plaintiffs alleging that they are or were indirect purchasers of rail transportation and sought to
represent a purported class of indirect purchasers of rail transportation services that paid fuel surcharges. These complaints added allegations under state antitrust and consumer protection laws. On November 6, 2007, the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation ordered that all of the rail fuel surcharge cases be transferred to Judge Paul Friedman of the U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. Following numerous hearings
and rulings, Judge Friedman dismissed the complaints of the indirect purchasers, which the indirect purchasers appealed. On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed Judge Friedman s ruling dismissing
the indirect purchasers  claims based on various state laws.      With respect to the direct purchasers  complaint, Judge Friedman
conducted a two-day hearing on October 6 and 7, 2010, on the class certification issue and the railroad defendants  motion to exclude evidence of interline communications. On April 7, 2011, Judge Friedman issued an order deferring any
decision on class certification until the Supreme Court issued its decision in the Wal-Mart employment discrimination case.      On
June 21, 2012, Judge Friedman issued his decision, which certified a class of plaintiffs with eight named plaintiff representatives. The decision included in the class all shippers that paid a rate-based fuel surcharge to any one of the
defendant railroads for rate-unregulated rail transportation from July 1, 2003, through December 31, 2008. This was a procedural ruling, which did not affirm any of the claims asserted by the plaintiffs and does not affect the ability of
the railroad defendants to disprove the allegations made by the plaintiffs. On July 5, 2012, the defendant railroads filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for   
         17   

Table of Contents  

the District of Columbia requesting that the court review the class certification ruling. On August 28, 2012, a panel of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia referred the petition
to a merits panel of the court to address the issues in the petition and to address whether the district court properly granted class certification. The Circuit Court heard oral arguments on May 3, 2013. On August 9, 2013, the Circuit
Court vacated the class certification decision and remanded the case to the district court to reconsider the class certification decision in light of a recent Supreme Court case and incomplete consideration of errors in the expert report of the
plaintiffs. On October 31, 2013, Judge Friedman approved a schedule agreed to by all parties for consideration of the class certification issue on remand.      On October 2, 2014, the plaintiffs informed Judge Friedman that their economic expert had a previously undisclosed conflict of interest. Judge Friedman ruled on November 26, 2014, that the plaintiffs may
file a supplemental expert report to support their motion for class certification. The plaintiffs must file their supplemental expert report on or before April 1, 2015. The defendant railroads will then have the opportunity to respond to the
plaintiffs  supplement report. Judge Friedman has not yet set a new date to hear oral arguments on plaintiffs  motion for class certification.      As we reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 10, 2011, the Railroad received a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on June 7, 2011, by Oxbow
Carbon   Minerals LLC and related entities (Oxbow). The complaint named the Railroad and one other U.S. Class I Railroad as defendants and alleged that the named railroads engaged in price-fixing and monopolistic practices in connection
with fuel surcharge programs and pricing of shipments of certain commodities, including coal and petroleum coke. The complaint sought injunctive relief and payment of damages of over $30 million, and other unspecified damages, including treble
damages. Some of the allegations in the complaint were addressed in the existing fuel surcharge litigation referenced above. The complaint also included additional unrelated allegations regarding alleged limitations on competition for shipments of
Oxbow s commodities. Judge Friedman, who presides over the fuel surcharge matter described above, also presides over this matter. On February 26, 2013, Judge Friedman granted the defendants  motion to dismiss Oxbow s complaint
for failure to state properly a claim under the antitrust laws. However, the dismissal was without prejudice to refile the complaint. Judge Friedman approved a schedule that allowed Oxbow to file a revised complaint, which Oxbow filed on May 1,
2013. The amended complaint alleges that UPRR and one other Class I railroad violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act and that UPRR also breached a tolling agreement between Oxbow and UPRR. Oxbow claims that it paid more than $50
million in wrongfully imposed fuel surcharges. UPRR and the other railroad filed separate motions to dismiss the Oxbow revised complaint on July 1, 2013. Judge Friedman heard oral arguments on the motions to dismiss filed by UPRR and the other
railroad on January 8, 2015.      We deny the allegations that our fuel surcharge programs violate the antitrust laws or any other
laws. We believe that these lawsuits are without merit, and we will vigorously defend our actions. Therefore, we currently believe that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on any of our results of operations, financial condition,
and liquidity.         Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures        Not applicable.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

       Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries
       The Board of Directors typically elects and designates our executive officers on an annual basis at the board meeting held in
conjunction with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and they hold office until their successors are elected. Executive officers also may be elected and designated throughout the year, as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. There are no
family relationships among the officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. The following table sets forth certain information current as of
February 6, 2015, relating to the executive officers.       

Name   
      
    Position   
      
    Age   
      
    Business     Experience During     Past Five Years    

John J. Koraleski   
      
    Chairman of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  64  
      
  [1]   

Lance M. Fritz   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  52  
      
  [2]   

Robert M. Knight, Jr.   
      
    Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  57  
      
  Current Position   

Diane K. Duren   
      
    Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  55  
      
  [3]   

Gayla L. Thal   
      
    Senior Vice President   Law and General Counsel of UPC and the Railroad   
      
  58  
      
  [4]   

Jeffrey P. Totusek   
      
    Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Railroad   
      
  56  
      
  Current Position   

Eric L. Butler   
      
    Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad   
      
  54  
      
  [5]   

[1]   
     On February 5, 2015, Mr. Koraleski was named executive Chairman of the Board of UPC and the Railroad. Mr. Koraleski first was elected Chairman of
the Board of UPC and the Railroad on March 20, 2014. Previously, Mr. Koraleski was Chief Executive Officer and President of UPC and the Railroad effective March 2, 2012. In addition, he was Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of
the Railroad effective March 1, 1999.           

[2]   
     Mr. Fritz was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad effective February 5, 2015. Previously, Mr. Fritz was President
and Chief Operating Officer of the Railroad effective February 6, 2014, Executive Vice President   Operations of the Railroad, effective September 1, 2010, and Vice President   Operations of the Railroad, effective
January 1, 2010.           

[3]   
     Ms. Duren was elected Executive Vice President of UPC and the Railroad effective October 1, 2012. In addition, Ms. Duren was elected
Corporate Secretary, effective March 1, 2013. She previously was Vice President and General Manager   Chemicals effective August 1, 2006.       

[4]   
     Ms. Thal was elected to her current position effective March 15, 2012. She previously was Vice President   Law and Chief Compliance Officer
effective December 1, 2005.           

[5]   
     Mr. Butler was elected to his current position effective March 15, 2012. He previously was Vice President and General Manager   Industrial
Products effective April 14, 2005.       
         19   

Table of Contents  

       PART II     
     Item 5.  Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities        Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP . The
following table presents the dividends declared and the high and low prices of our common stock for each of the indicated quarters. All amounts are retroactively adjusted to reflect the June 6, 2014 stock split.   
   
    At January 30, 2015, there were 881,284,029 shares of common stock outstanding and 32,112 common shareholders
of record. On that date, the closing price of the common stock on the NYSE was $117.21. We have paid dividends to our common shareholders during each of the past 115 years. We declared dividends totaling $1,714 million in 2014 and $1,371 million in
2013. On July 31, 2014, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.50 per share, payable on October 1, 2014, to shareholders of record on August 29, 2014. On February 5, 2015, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.55 per share,
payable on March 30, 2015, to shareholders of record on February 27, 2015. We are subject to certain restrictions regarding retained earnings with respect to the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings
available for dividends decreased to $15.4 billion at December 31, 2014, from $16.3 billion at December 31, 2013. (See discussion of this restriction in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources, Item 7.) We do not believe the restriction on retained earnings will affect our ability to pay dividends, and we currently expect to pay dividends in 2015.   
   Comparison Over One- and Three-Year Periods    The following table presents the cumulative total shareholder returns, assuming
reinvestment of dividends, over one- and three-year periods for the Corporation (UNP), a peer group index (comprised of CSX Corporation and Norfolk Southern Corporation), the Dow Jones Transportation Index (DJ Trans), and the Standard  
Poor s 500 Stock Index (S P 500).       
 
         20   

Table of Contents  

    Five-Year Performance Comparison    The following graph provides an indicator of cumulative
total shareholder returns for the Corporation as compared to the peer group index (described above), the DJ Trans, and the S P 500. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the common stock of Union Pacific Corporation and each index on
December 31, 2009 and that all dividends were reinvested. The information below is historical in nature and is not necessarily indicative of future performance.       

Purchases of Equity Securities    During 2014, we repurchased 33,035,204 shares of our common stock
at an average price of $100.24. The following table presents common stock repurchases during each month for the fourth quarter of 2014:       

[a]   
     Total number of shares purchased during the quarter includes approximately 15,587 shares delivered or attested to UPC by employees to pay stock option
exercise prices, satisfy excess tax withholding obligations for stock option exercises or vesting of retention units, and pay withholding obligations for vesting of retention shares.       

[b]   
     Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 120 million shares of our common stock by December 31,
2017. These repurchases may be made on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions.       
         21   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6.  Selected Financial Data     
  The following table presents as of, and for the years ended, December 31, our selected financial data for each of the last five years. The
selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and with the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. The
information below is historical in nature and is not necessarily indicative of future financial condition or results of operations.       

[a]   
     Includes fuel surcharge revenue of $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion, $2.6 billion, $2.2 billion, and $1.2 billion for 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, and 2010,
respectively, which partially offsets increased operating expenses for fuel. (See further discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Operating
Revenues, Item 7.)           

[b]   
     Earnings per share and dividends declared per share are retroactively adjusted to reflect the June 6, 2014 stock split.

[c]   
     Long-term obligations is determined as follows: total liabilities less current liabilities.       

[d]   
     Operating ratio is defined as operating expenses divided by operating revenues.       

[e]   
     Debt to capital is determined as follows: total debt divided by total debt plus common shareholders  equity.       

[f]   
     Return on average common shareholders  equity is determined as follows: Net income divided by average common shareholders  equity.
      
         22   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations        The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and
applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this
Item 7.      The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is
analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network.   
   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY        2014 Results    

Safety    During 2014, we continued focusing on safety to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our customers and the public. We
achieved our best ever reportable personal injury incidents per 200,000 employee-hours of 0.98 and, for the first time, we ended the year below 1.0. In addition, our full year reportable derailment incident per million train miles improved 7%. These
results demonstrate our employees  dedication to our safety initiatives and our employee engagement efforts through Courage to Care, Total Safety Culture, and UP Way (our continuous improvement culture). We finished 2014 with a 5% higher
crossing incident rate per million train miles than the year prior. Previous prevention and mitigation efforts for at-grade crossing improvements continue with new approaches planned for 2015 to reduce our exposure to crossing accidents.

Financial Performance    In 2014, we continued our record-setting financial performance, generating operating income of $8.8 billion, an 18%
increase over 2013. Core pricing gains of 2.5%, business demand and productivity, partially offset by costs of running a slower network and inflation, drove this increase. Our operating ratio for 2014 of 63.5% was an all-time best, improving from
last year s operating ratio of 66.1%. Net income of $5.2 billion surpassed our previous milestone set in 2013, translating into earnings of $5.75 per diluted share for 2014.      

Freight Revenues    Our freight revenues grew 9% year-over-year to a record $22.6 billion driven by volume growth along with core pricing gains of
2.5%. Compared to 2013, freight revenues and volume grew in all six commodity groups with double digit growth in Agricultural and Industrial Products. Our fuel surcharge increased 6% versus 2013 driven by volume growth, improved fuel recovery
provisions and the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months).          

Network Operations    Significant carload growth levels coupled with severe weather affected the performance of our network and the North American
rail network as a whole. Average train speed, as reported to the AAR, declined 8% in 2014 compared to 2013, reflecting the 7% volume increase, a major infrastructure project in Fort Worth, Texas and severe weather conditions. Average terminal dwell
time increased 12% primarily due to higher volumes and inclement weather.          

Fuel Prices    Our average price per gallon of diesel fuel in 2014 decreased 6% from the average price in 2013, as both crude oil and the
conversion spreads between crude oil and diesel declined in 2014. The lower price decreased operating expenses by over $200 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume). Our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed
divided by gross ton-miles, decreased 1% compared to 2013 also lowering fuel expense. These declines were offset by a 7% increase in gross-ton miles, which increased fuel expense.      

Free Cash Flow    Cash generated by operating activities totaled $7.4 billion, yielding free cash flow of $1.5 billion after reductions of $4.2
billion for cash used in investing activities and a 22% increase in dividends paid. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.      
  Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC
Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures
our ability to   
         23   

Table of Contents  

generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following
table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):       
     2015 Outlook        

Safety    Operating a safe railroad benefits all our constituents: our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we serve. We will
continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, training and employee engagement, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety
Culture and Courage to Care throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. We will continue our efforts to increase detection of rail defects; improve or close crossings; and
educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), industry programs and local community activities across our network.

Network Operations    In 2015, we will continue to add resources to support growth, improve service, and replenish our surge capability.

Fuel Prices    With the dramatic drop in fuel prices at the end of 2014, there is even more uncertainty around the projections of fuel prices. We
again could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. As prices fluctuate there will be a timing impact on
earnings, as our fuel surcharge programs trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months.      
  Lower fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could
increase demand for various consumer products that we transport. Alternatively, lower fuel prices will likely have a negative impact on other commodities such as coal, frac sand and crude oil shipments.   

Capital Plan    In 2015, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $4.3 billion, including expenditures for PTC and 218 locomotives. The
capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources  
Capital Plan.)          

Financial Expectations    We expect the overall U.S. economy to continue to improve at a moderate pace. One of the biggest uncertainties is the
outlook for energy markets, which will bring both challenges and opportunities. On balance, we expect to see positive volume growth for 2015 versus the prior year. In the current environment, we expect continued margin improvement driven by
continued pricing opportunities, ongoing productivity initiatives and the ability to leverage our resources as we improve the fluidity of our network.      
         24   

Table of Contents  

    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS        Operating Revenues        
    We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight
revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes
or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as reductions to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues as shipments move from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues
between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.      Other
revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as
switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.      Freight revenues from all six
commodity groups increased during 2014 compared to 2013 driven by 7% volume growth and core pricing gains of 2.5%. Volume growth from grain, frac sand, rock, and intermodal (domestic and international) shipments offset declines in crude oil.
     Freight revenues from five of our six commodity groups increased during 2013 compared to 2012. Revenue from Agricultural Products was
down slightly compared to 2012. ARC increased 5%, driven by core pricing gains, shifts in business mix and an automotive logistics management arrangement. Volume essentially was flat year over year as growth in automotive, frac sand, crude oil and
domestic intermodal offset declines in coal, international intermodal and grain shipments.      Our fuel surcharge programs generated
freight revenues of $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion, and $2.6 billion in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Fuel surcharge in 2014 increased 6% driven by our 7% carloadings increase. Fuel surcharge in 2013 essentially was flat versus 2012 as lower fuel
price offset improved fuel recovery provisions and the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months).      In 2014, other revenue increased from 2013 due to higher revenues at our subsidiaries, primarily those that broker intermodal and automotive services, accessorial revenue driven by increased volume and per diem
revenue for container usage (previously included in automotive freight revenue).      In 2013, other revenue increased from 2012 due
primarily to miscellaneous contract revenue and higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and automotive services.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and
ARC by commodity type:       

[a]   
     Each intermodal container or trailer equals one carload.       
         26   

Table of Contents  

Agricultural Products    Higher volume and pricing gains drove the increase in freight revenue from agricultural
shipments in 2014 versus 2013. Grain shipments increased 27%, reflecting the strong overall harvest in 2013 and 2014. The 2012 drought negatively impacted the first three quarters of 2013, which created favorable comparisons for the first three
quarters of 2014. Lower export wheat shipments due to a larger world crop partially offset gains in grain.      
  In 2013, lower volume offset price improvements as freight revenue declined slightly versus 2012. In the fourth quarter, grain shipments increased
41% due to a robust fall harvest. Despite the fourth quarter growth, grain shipments still   
     
     2014 Agricultural Products Carloads   

decreased 4% for the full year when compared to 2012, reflecting the impact of the severe drought in 2012 that affected territory served by us during the first
three quarters of 2013. Export wheat shipped to the Gulf and Pacific Northwest increased in the second half of 2013, partially offsetting the declines in grain.    

Automotive    Freight revenue from automotive shipments increased compared to 2013. Growth in automotive parts and finished vehicle shipments and core price
improvements drove the higher revenue. The increase in automotive parts volume was driven by continued strength in production and market penetration. Finished vehicles shipments increased the last three quarters of 2014 with improved sales and
production, which offset declines in the first quarter due to winter weather. Shifts in business mix and a change in how we are compensated for container usage, which is now included as a per diem charge in other revenue, negatively impacted ARC
compared to 2013.   
     
     2014 Automotive Carloads       

Higher ARC due to price increases and the logistics management arrangement that covers fees and container costs,
coupled with increased shipments of automotive parts and finished vehicles, improved automotive revenue in 2013 compared to 2012. Higher production and sales levels during 2013 drove the volume growth.   

Chemicals    Core price improvements, higher volumes and ARC driven by positive business mix increased freight revenue from chemicals compared to 2013.
Shipments of industrial chemicals grew as a result of continued strong demand in the drilling market. Fertilizer shipments increased due to strong exports of potash. Reduced shipments of crude oil from the Bakken and Permian shale formations to the
Gulf area partially offset these gains as market factors, primarily regional pricing differences for various types of crude oil, displaced some of the former Gulf Coast shipments to the East and West Coasts.   
     
     2014 Chemicals Carloads       

Volume gains and price improvement increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2013 versus 2012. Shipments of crude
oil from the Bakken, Permian, Niobrara and Eagle Ford shale formations primarily to the Gulf area drove the growth in shipments of   
         27   

Table of Contents  

chemicals. In addition, shipments of industrial chemicals increased as manufacturing, housing and automotive markets improved.   

Coal    Freight revenue from coal shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013, driven by higher volumes. Shifts in business mix negatively impacted ARC
compared to 2013. Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) shipments increased 3% from 2013. Strong demand continued throughout the year due to inventory replenishment but network performance and contract losses limited year-over-year volume growth.
Shipments from Colorado and Utah mines increased 6% compared to 2013, driven by higher natural gas prices for most of the year and strong exports through the West Coast. However, in the fourth quarter volumes from Colorado and Utah mines declined as
exports to the Gulf Coast decreased.   
     
     2014 Coal Carloads       

ARC gains driven by price increases and positive business mix, partially offset by volume declines, increased
freight revenue from coal shipments in 2013 versus 2012. SPRB shipments declined 10% from 2012 due to the loss of a customer contract at the beginning of the year, relatively mild summer weather, and tighter coal inventory management by utilities.
Shipments from Colorado and Utah mines decreased 13% compared to 2012, driven by soft domestic demand and mine production issues, partially offset by second half growth in international shipments. Severe flooding and washouts in Colorado also
reduced volumes from certain producers in the third quarter.       

Industrial Products    Volume growth, core pricing gains and positive business mix increased freight revenue from
industrial products versus 2013. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand, up 31%) grew as a result of drilling activity for energy products, as well as evolving drilling practices, which can increase the amount of frac sand used at
certain wells. Additionally, rock and lumber shipments increased from 2013, driven by new housing and commercial construction.      
  Freight revenue from industrial products increased in 2013 versus 2012 driven by volume growth and higher ARC due to pricing gains and favorable
business mix. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand) grew as a result of drilling activity for energy products. Additionally, growth in new housing construction and home improvements drove an   
     
     2014 Industrial Products Carloads   

increase in lumber shipments. Declines in ferrous scrap and government shipments partially offset these higher volumes.    
 
         28   

Table of Contents  

Intermodal    Freight revenue from intermodal shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013 driven by volume growth,
core pricing improvements and positive business mix. Domestic traffic increased 11% due to continued conversions from truck transportation to rail and new premium services. International traffic grew 5% versus 2013, driven primarily by new business
and improving economic conditions. International gains in the last three quarters of the year offset the declines in the first quarter due to severe weather that negatively impacted consumer demand.  
      Pricing improvements and slight volume growth drove increased
freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2013   
     
     2014 Intermodal Carloads       

compared to 2012. Domestic traffic increased 3% due to overall economic growth along with conversions from truck
transportation to rail. International traffic declined 2% versus 2012, reflecting market share shifts within the ocean carrier industry and an increase in transloading in the second half of the year. Transloading involves the transfer of goods from
international to domestic containers at distribution centers near West coast ports, which reduces demand for rail transportation from these centers in international containers.   
   Mexico Business    Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business
increased 8% to $2.3 billion in 2014 versus 2013. Volume levels increased 8% from 2013, as increases in Agricultural Products, Chemicals, Intermodal, Automotive and Industrial Products offset lower export Coal shipments.   
  Revenue from Mexico business increased 9% to $2.1 billion in 2013 versus 2012. Shipments were up 3% versus 2012; all commodity groups grew with the
exception of Agricultural Products. The largest growth came from Automotive and Industrial Products shipments.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Expenses        

Operating expenses increased $718 million in 2014 versus 2013. Volume-related expenses, incremental costs associated with
operating a slower network, depreciation, wage and benefit inflation, and locomotive and freight car materials contributed to the higher costs. Lower fuel price partially offset these increases. In addition, there were approximately $35 million of
weather related costs in the first quarter of 2014.      
  Operating expenses increased $336 million in 2013 versus 2012. Wage and benefit inflation, new logistics management fees and container costs for our
automotive business, locomotive overhauls, property taxes and repairs on jointly owned property contributed to higher expenses during the year. Lower fuel prices partially offset the cost increases.   
     
     2014 Operating Expenses       

Compensation and Benefits    Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare
costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. Volume-related expenses, including training, and a slower network increased our train and engine work force, which, along with general wage and benefit inflation, drove
increased wages. Weather-related costs in the first quarter of 2014 also increased costs.      General wages and benefits inflation,
including increased pension and other postretirement benefits, and higher work force levels drove the increases in 2013 versus 2012. The impact of ongoing productivity initiatives partially offset these increases.   
   Fuel    Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Volume growth of 7%, as
measured by gross ton-miles, drove the increase in fuel expense. This was essentially offset by lower locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.97 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2014, compared to $3.15 in 2013, along
with a slight improvement in fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles.      Lower locomotive
diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.15 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2013, compared to $3.22 in 2012, decreased expenses by $75 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 1% while the fuel consumption
rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, increased 2% compared to 2012. Declines in heavier, more fuel-efficient coal shipments drove the variances in gross-ton-miles and the fuel consumption rate.   
   Purchased Services and Materials    Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside
contractors and other service providers (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad s lines, structures, and equipment; costs
of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Expenses
for purchased services increased 8% compared to 2013 primarily due to volume-  
         30   

Table of Contents  

related expenses incurred by our logistics subsidiaries for external transportation and increased crew transportation and lodging due to volumes and a slower network. In addition, higher
consulting fees and higher contract expenses (including equipment maintenance) increased costs compared to 2013. Locomotive and freight car material expenses increased in 2014 compared to 2013 due to additional volumes, including the impact of
activating stored equipment to address operational issues caused by demand and a slower network.      Expenses for purchased services
increased 10% in 2013 compared to 2012 due to logistics management fees, an increase in locomotive overhauls and repairs on jointly owned property.       Depreciation    The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material. Depreciation was up 7% compared to 2013. A higher depreciable asset base,
reflecting higher ongoing capital spending drove the increase.      Depreciation was up 1% in 2013 compared to 2012. Recent depreciation
studies allowed us to use longer estimated service lives for certain equipment, which partially offset the impact of a higher depreciable asset base resulting from larger capital spending in recent years.   
   Equipment and Other Rents    Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars
owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses. Higher intermodal volumes and longer cycle times increased short-term freight car rental expense in 2014 compared to
2013. Lower equipment leases essentially offset the higher freight car rental expense, as we exercised purchase options on some of our leased equipment.      Additional container costs resulting from the logistics management arrangement, and increased automotive shipments, partially offset by lower cycle times drove a $51 million increase in our short-term freight car
rental expense in 2013 versus 2012. Conversely, lower locomotive and freight car lease expenses partially offset the higher freight car rental expense.       Other    Other expenses include state and local taxes, freight, equipment and property damage, utilities, insurance, personal injury, environmental, employee travel, telephone and cellular, computer
software, bad debt, and other general expenses. Higher property taxes, personal injury expense and utilities costs partially offset by lower environmental expense and costs associated with damaged freight drove the increase in other costs in 2014
compared to 2013.      Higher property taxes and costs associated with damaged freight and property increased other costs in 2013 compared
to 2012. Continued improvement in our safety performance and lower estimated liability for personal injury, which reduced our personal injury expense year-over-year, partially offset increases in other costs.   
   Non-Operating Items        
     Other Income    Other income increased in 2014 versus 2013 due to higher gains from real estate sales
and a sale of a permanent easement. These gains were partially offset by higher environmental costs on non-operating property in 2014 and lower lease income due to the $17 million settlement of a land lease contract in 2013.   
  Other income increased in 2013 versus 2012 due to higher gains from real estate sales and increased lease income, including the favorable impact
from the $17 million settlement of a land lease contract. These increases were partially offset by interest received from a tax refund in 2012.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

    Interest Expense    Interest expense increased in 2014 versus 2013 due to an increased
weighted-average debt level of $10.8 billion in 2014 from $9.6 billion in 2013, which more than offset the impact of the lower effective interest rate of 5.3% in 2014 versus 5.7% in 2013.   
  Interest expense decreased in 2013 versus 2012 due to a lower effective interest rate of 5.7% in 2013 versus 6.0% in 2012. The increase in the
weighted-average debt level to $9.6 billion in 2013 from $9.1 billion in 2012 partially offset the impact of the lower effective interest rate.       Income Taxes    Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2014 compared to 2013. Our effective tax rate for 2014 was 37.9% compared to 37.7% in 2013.   
  Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2013 compared to 2012. Our effective tax rate for 2013 was 37.7% compared to 37.6% in 2012.
      OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS       We report a number of key performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR). We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investor/aar-stb_reports/index.htm.   
   Operating/Performance Statistics       Railroad performance
measures are included in the table below:       
     Average Train Speed    Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on
our main lines between terminals. Average train speed, as reported to the Association of American Railroads, decreased 8% in 2014 versus 2013. The decline was driven by a 7% volume increase, a major infrastructure project in Fort Worth, Texas and
inclement weather, including flooding in the Midwest in the second quarter and severe weather conditions in the first quarter that impacted all major U.S. and Canadian railroads.   
  Average train speed decreased 2% in 2013 versus 2012. The decline was driven by severe weather conditions and shifts of traffic to sections of our
network with higher utilization.       Average Terminal Dwell Time    Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail
car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time increased 12% in 2014 compared to 2013, caused by higher volumes and inclement weather.   
  Average terminal dwell time increased 3% in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to growth of manifest traffic which requires more time in
terminals for switching cars and building trains.       Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles    Gross ton-miles are calculated by
multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloadings all
increased 7% in 2014 compared to 2013.      Gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles declined 1% in 2013 compared to 2012 and carloads remained
relatively flat driven by declines in coal and agricultural products offset by growth in chemical, autos and industrial products. Changes in commodity mix drove the year-over-year variances between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads.
  
         32   

Table of Contents  

    Operating Ratio    Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of
operating revenue. Our operating ratio improved 2.6 points to a new record low of 63.5% in 2014 versus 2013. Core pricing, business demand and productivity more than offset the incremental operating costs associated with volume, a slower network,
weather and inflation.      Our operating ratio improved 1.7 points to a then record low of 66.1% in 2013 versus 2012. Core pricing and
productivity gains more than offset the impact of inflation.       Employees    Employee levels increased 2% in 2014 versus 2013.
A decrease in our capital workforce due to improved productivity and project mix partially offset the larger train and engine workforce required for higher volume levels and a slower network. We successfully managed the growth of our full-time
equivalent train and engine force levels at a rate less than our volume growth in 2014 compared to 2013.      Employee levels increased 1%
in 2013 versus 2012. Shifts in our traffic mix, which required more resources, largely concentrated in the Southern region, work related to higher capital investment in positive train control and more individuals in the training pipeline contributed
to the higher employee levels.       Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity    
   
     Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)    
   
    ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may
not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance
criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is
Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders  equity to ROIC. Our 2014 ROIC improved 1.5 points compared to 2013, primarily as a result of higher
earnings.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

    Debt to Capital        
    Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation
S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease
obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Operating leases were discounted using 5.3% and 5.7% at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The
discount rate reflects our effective interest rate. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with our overall cost of capital. Adjusted
debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2014 debt to capital ratios
increased as a result of a $1.9 billion increase in debt from December 31, 2013.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES    
  As of December 31, 2014, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, and our
revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.7 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of
December 31, 2014. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2014. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $650 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $400 million as of
December 31, 2014, and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year. Our access to this receivables securitization facility may be reduced or restricted if our bond ratings fall to certain levels
below investment grade. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating
results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability.
We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the size or utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper,
(iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The
Company s $1.7 billion revolving credit facility is intended to support the issuance of commercial paper by UPC and also serves as an emergency source of liquidity. The Company currently does not intend to make any borrowings under this
facility.      At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had a modest working capital surplus. This reflects a strong cash position that
provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In addition, we believe   
         34   

Table of Contents  

we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.   
   
     Operating Activities       Higher net income in 2014 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2013, despite higher income tax payments. 2014 income tax payments were higher than 2013 primarily due to higher income, but
also because we paid taxes previously deferred by bonus depreciation (discussed below).      Higher net income in 2013 increased cash
provided by operating activities compared to 2012. In addition, we made payments in 2012 for past wages as a result of national labor negotiations, which reduced cash provided by operating activities in 2012. Lower tax benefits from bonus
depreciation (as discussed below) partially offset the increases.      Federal tax law provided for 100% bonus depreciation for qualified
investments made during 2011 and 50% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2012-2013. As a result, the Company deferred a substantial portion of its 2011-2013 income tax expense, contributing to the positive operating cash flow in
those years. Congress extended 50% bonus depreciation for 2014, but this extension occurred in December and did not have a significant benefit on our income tax payments during 2014.       Investing Activities       Higher capital investments, including the early buyout of the long-term
operating lease of our headquarters building for approximately $261 million, drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2013. Significant investments also were made for new locomotives, freight cars and containers, and
capacity and commercial facility projects. Capital investments in 2014 also included $99 million for the early buyout of locomotives and freight cars under long-term operating leases, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market
conditions.      Lower capital investments in locomotives and freight cars in 2013 drove the decrease in cash used in investing activities
compared to 2012. Included in capital investments in 2012 was $75 million for the early buyout of 165 locomotives under long-term operating and capital leases during the first quarter of 2012, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and
market conditions.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012:       

[a]   
     Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment.       

[b]   
     Technology and other includes the early buyout of our headquarters building operating lease.       
   
     Capital Plan    In 2015, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $4.3 billion, which may be
revised if business conditions or the regulatory environment affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. While asset replacements will fluctuate as part of our renewal strategy, we expect to use 55% to 60% of our capital
investments to renew and improve existing capital assets. Our major investment categories include renewing track infrastructure and upgrading our fleet of locomotives, freight cars, and domestic intermodal containers. In 2015, we plan to acquire 218
locomotives and increase freight car and container acquisitions. Additionally, we will continue increasing our network and terminal capacity, especially in the Southern region, while balancing terminal capacity with mainline capacity. In 2015, we
also plan to begin constructing a major classification yard at Hearne, Texas, and continue developing several intermodal, automotive and chemicals facilities. Significant investments in technology improvements are planned, including approximately
$450 million for PTC.      We expect to fund our 2015 cash capital plan by using some or all of the following: cash generated from
operations, proceeds from the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan. We expect
our plan will enhance the long-term value of the Company for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network
efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.       Financing Activities       Cash used in financing activities remained flat in 2014 versus 2013.
Increases for the repurchase of shares under our common stock repurchase program and higher dividend payments in 2014 of $1.6 billion compared to $1.3 billion in 2013 were offset by higher debt issuances in 2014.   
  Cash used in financing activities increased in 2013 versus 2012, driven by a $744 million increase for the repurchase of shares under our common
stock repurchase program and higher dividend payments in 2013 of $1.3 billion compared to $1.1 billion in 2012. We increased our debt levels in 2013, which partially offset the increase in cash used in financing activities.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

    Dividends    On February 5, 2015, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.55 per share,
payable on March 30, 2015, to shareholders of record on February 27, 2015, We expect to fund the increase in the quarterly dividend through cash generated from operations and cash on hand at December 31, 2014.   
   Credit Facilities    During the second quarter of 2014, we replaced our $1.8 billion revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to
expire in May 2015, with a new $1.7 billion facility that expires in May 2019 (the facility). The facility is based on substantially similar terms as those in the previous credit facility. On December 31, 2014, we had $1.7 billion of credit
available under the facility, which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on either facility at any time during 2014. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility
are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior
unsecured debt.      The facility requires that the Corporation maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a
borrowing. At December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013 (and at all times during the year), we were in compliance with this covenant. The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes,
among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2014, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $42.4 billion of
debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $11.6 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors
beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision
that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $125 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.      During 2014, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper
balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.   
  (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Receivables Securitization Facility for information regarding the Company s receivables
securitization facility.)       Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges       For each of the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 13.5, 11.8, and 10.4, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a
consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated
amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.)       Common Shareholders  Equity        Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit
facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends
was $15.4 billion and $16.3 billion at December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

    Share Repurchase Program       Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 120 million shares of our common stock by December 31, 2017, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of
December 31, 2014, we repurchased a total of $12.6 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007. The table below represents shares repurchased in 2013 under our previous repurchase program, and shares
repurchased in 2014 under the new program.       
    Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all
repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in
treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.      From January 1, 2015, through February 6, 2015, we
repurchased 2.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $327 million.       Shelf Registration Statement and Significant
New Borrowings    Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have
no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional
debt securities at any time.      During 2014, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf
registration:       
    We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common
stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2014, we had remaining authority to issue up to $1.15 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.
      Subsequent Event    In 2015, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf
registration:       
 
         38   

Table of Contents  

   Proceeds from this offering are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common
stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. This offering exhausted our current authority to issue debt securities under our existing shelf registration.   
  On February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors approved proceeding with a new shelf registration statement and authorized the issuance of up to
$4.0 billion of debt securities.       Equipment Trust    On May 20, 2014, UPRR consummated a pass-through (P/T) financing,
whereby a P/T trust was created, which issued $500 million of P/T trust certificates with a stated interest rate of 3.227%. The P/T trust certificates will mature on May 14, 2026. The proceeds from the issuance of the P/T trust certificates
(net of $3 million in transaction fees) were used to purchase equipment trust certificates to be issued by UPRR to finance the acquisition of 245 locomotives. The equipment trust certificates are secured by a lien on the locomotives.   
   Debt Exchange    On August 21, 2013, we exchanged $1,170 million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between 2016 and
2040 (the Existing Notes) for $439 million of 3.646% notes (the New 2024 Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $700 million of 4.821% notes (the New 2044 Notes) due February 1, 2044, plus cash consideration of approximately $280 million in
addition to $8 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt
instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized
as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders
totaled approximately $9 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2013.      The
following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:       
     Debt Redemption    On May 14, 2013, we redeemed all $40 million of our outstanding 5.65% Port of
Corpus Christi Authority Revenue Refunding Bonds due December 1, 2022. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $1 million in the second quarter of 2013.   
   Receivables Securitization Facility    On July 29, 2014, we completed the renewal of our receivables securitization facility. The
new $650 million, 3-year facility replaces the prior $600 million, 364-day facility. Under the facility, the Railroad sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote
subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse, an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors. The investors have no   
         39   

Table of Contents  

recourse to the Railroad s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.   
  The amount outstanding under the facility was $400 million and $0 at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively. The facility
was supported by $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of accounts receivable as collateral at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively, which, as a retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position.      The outstanding amount the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $650
million, may fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios
increase one percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change.      The costs of the receivables
securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing benchmark and commercial paper rates, program fees paid to participating banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees of participating banks for unused commitment
availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $4 million, $5 million and $3 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.       Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments       As described in the notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of
our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of
the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation
industry.      The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2014:   

[a]   
     Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,520 million and unamortized discount of $(591) million. Includes an interest component of $7,346 million.

[b]   
     Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate.       

[c]   
     Represents total obligations, including interest component of $407 million.       

[d]   
     Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, locomotives, ties, ballast, rail, and aircraft; and
agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.       

[e]   
     Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years.

[f]   
     Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties,
as of December 31, 2014. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.       
         40   

Table of Contents  

[b]   
     $400 million of the receivables securitization facility was utilized as of December 31, 2014, which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures
in July 2017.           

[c]   
     Includes guaranteed obligations related to our equipment financings and affiliated operations.       
   
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        Guarantees    At December 31, 2014, and 2013,
we were contingently liable for $82 million and $299 million in guarantees. We have recorded liabilities of $0.3 million and $1 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We entered into
these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our equipment financings and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of
default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.   
   OTHER MATTERS        Labor Agreements
   Approximately 85% of our 47,201 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. On January 1, 2015, current labor agreements became subject to modification and we began the current round of negotiations with
the unions. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional
intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time and we rarely experience work stoppages while negotiations are pending.       Inflation    Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels,
depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.       Derivative
Financial Instruments    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by
policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged,
both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various
hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or
forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.   
   Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value
fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At
December 31, 2014 and 2013, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.   
         41   

Table of Contents  

    Determination of Fair Value    We determine the fair values of our derivative financial
instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.   
   Sensitivity Analyses    The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates
could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.      At December 31, 2014, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 5.3% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2015 than our December 31, 2014
variable rate, which was approximately 0.9%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $4 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at
December 31, 2014.      Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a
hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2014, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1.3 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2014. We estimated the fair values of our
fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.   
   Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed
and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings.
We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing
outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.      Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge
the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) ASC 815; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had no interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.   
   Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until
the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had reductions of $0 and $1 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no interest rate cash
flow hedges outstanding.       Accounting Pronouncements    In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update
No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09),  Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) . ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition guidance in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should
recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in the exchange for those goods or services. This standard is effective for
annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. ASU 2014-09 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.   
   Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully
determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such
claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.       Indemnities    Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the
  
         42   

Table of Contents  

nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse
claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.
      Climate Change    Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the
future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the
environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.         CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES       Our Consolidated Financial Statements
have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical
experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas
of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.   
   Personal Injury    The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on
estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related
accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.   
  Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately
93% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 7% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2014. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably
possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $335 million to $368 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary
over time due to evolving trends in litigation.      Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:   

43   

Table of Contents  

   Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:   
   
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2014, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries.
We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2014, and 2013.       Asbestos    We are a
defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is
updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:   

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 21% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 79% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2014. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $126 million to $135 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.
     Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:   
   
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2014, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries.
We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2014, and 2013. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events,
such as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future
if   
         44   

Table of Contents  

strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation
of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.       Environmental Costs
   We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 270 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental
requirements. This includes 29 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 16 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the
remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.   
  When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of
our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Our environmental
liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.      Our environmental
liability activity was as follows:       
    Our environmental site activity was as follows:   
   
    The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing
monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and
regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination
by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing
environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.       Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital
program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if
they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density
traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in
which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes,   
         45   

Table of Contents  

and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60
depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.      We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track
assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:       

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic
corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2014, the estimated service lives of the
majority of this rail ranged from approximately 18 years to approximately 35 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation
studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.   
  Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other
factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets
may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.      Changes in
estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods  depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful
lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $63 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense
would increase by approximately $68 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in lower depreciation rates for some asset classes. The lower rates combined with a projected higher depreciable asset base will increase total depreciation
expense by approximately 4% to 6% in 2015 versus 2014.      Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable
property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the
applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we
continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated
depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.
  
         46   

Table of Contents  

   For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business,
a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) it is unusual, (ii) it is material in amount, and (iii) it varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our
depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not
part of our railroad operations.       Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for
the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current
tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1%
increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $380 million.      When appropriate, we
record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of
our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2014 and 2013, there were no
valuation allowances.      We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The
amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns
that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    We use an
actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make
several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend
rate.      We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:   

Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of
cash flows matches our plans  expected benefit payments.      

Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market
conditions.      

Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.      
  The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2014 and the estimated impact on
2014 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:       
 
         47   

Table of Contents  

Sensitivities     
      
   Increase in Expense    

Millions    
      
   Pension    

OPEB    

0.25% decrease in discount rate   
      
  $  
  9    

$  
  1    

0.25% increase in compensation scale   
      
  $  
  6    

N/A    

0.25% decrease in expected return on plan assets   
      
  $  
  8    

N/A    

1% increase in health care cost trend rate   

N/A    

$  
  2    
      
    The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost for the years ended December 31:
      
    Our net periodic pension cost is expected to increase to approximately $105 million in 2015 from $69 million in
2014. Our net periodic OPEB expense is expected to increase to approximately $18 million in 2015 from $15 million in 2014. The increases are driven by the implementation of new mortality tables issued by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014,
along with a decrease in the pension discount rate to 3.94% and a decrease in the OPEB discount rate to 3.74%.         CAUTIONARY
INFORMATION       Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as
well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These
forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the Chairman s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption  2015 Capital Expenditures  in
Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item 5 of Part II; and statements and information set forth under the captions  2015 Outlook  and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  in this Item 7 of Part II, and
(B) any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or
objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or
service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic
business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans; expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial
results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations
or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking
statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as  believes,   expects,   may,   should,   would,   will,   intends,   plans, 
 estimates,   anticipates,   projects  and similar words, phrases or expressions.      Forward-looking
statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information
are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by
management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information)
are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those
results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or   
         48   

Table of Contents  

information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All
forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.      Forward-looking statements
speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one
or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.         Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk        Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Other Matters, Item 7.   
  ****************************************   
         49   

Table of Contents  

      Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

50   

Table of Contents  

        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation      Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial position of
Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the  Corporation ) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in common shareholders  equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Table of Contents at Part IV, Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Corporation s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.   
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 6, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   

Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 6, 2015   
         51   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         52   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         54   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    
    Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        

[a]   
     AOCI = Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (Note 10)           The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         55   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies       For purposes of this report, unless the
context otherwise requires, all references herein to the  Corporation ,  Company ,  UPC ,  we ,  us , and  our  mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific
Railroad Company, which will be separately referred to herein as  UPRR  or the  Railroad .   
    1. Nature of Operations    
    Operations and Segmentation    We are a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. Our network includes 31,974 route
miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and Eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We own 26,012 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. We serve
the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import
traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders.      The Railroad, along with its
subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide and review revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail
network. The following table provides freight revenue by commodity group:       
    Although our revenues are principally derived from customers domiciled in the U.S., the ultimate points of
origination or destination for some products transported by us are outside the U.S. Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Included in the above table are revenues from our Mexico business which amounted to
$2.3 billion in 2014, $2.1 billion in 2013, and $1.9 billion in 2012.       Basis of Presentation    The Consolidated Financial
Statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) as codified in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).   
    2. Significant Accounting Policies    
    Principles of Consolidation    The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Union Pacific
Corporation and all of its subsidiaries. Investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned) are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. We currently have no less than majority-owned
investments that require consolidation under variable interest entity requirements.       Cash and Cash Equivalents    Cash equivalents consist of
investments with original maturities of three months or less.       Accounts Receivable    Accounts receivable includes
receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated
allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

    Investments    Investments represent our investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50%
owned) that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and investments in companies (less than 20% owned) accounted for under the cost method of accounting.       Materials and Supplies    Materials and supplies are carried at the lower of average cost or market.       Property and Depreciation    Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in
high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards), for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of
depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool
of resources, not as singular items. We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies. Under the group method of depreciation, no gain or loss is recognized when depreciable property is retired
or replaced in the ordinary course of business.       Impairment of Long-lived Assets    We review long-lived assets, including
identifiable intangibles, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less
than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value as measured by the discounted cash flows.       Revenue Recognition    We recognize freight revenues as freight moves from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each
reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Other revenues, which include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenue, are recognized as service is performed or contractual
obligations are met. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues based on actual or projected future customer
shipments.       Translation of Foreign Currency    Our portion of the assets and liabilities related to foreign investments are
translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized gains or losses are reflected within common
shareholders  equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.       Fair Value Measurements    We use a fair value
hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels include:      Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets
for identical assets or liabilities.      Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.   
  Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.      We have applied fair value measurements to our pension plan assets and short- and long-term debt.   
   Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive
stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit
vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted.      We measure and recognize compensation expense for all
stock-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options. Compensation expense is based on the calculated fair value of the awards as measured at the grant date and is expensed ratably over the service period of the awards
(generally the vesting period). The fair value of retention awards is the closing stock price on the date of grant, while the fair value of stock options is determined by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

    Earnings Per Share    Basic earnings per share are calculated on the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share include shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and stock-based awards where the conversion of such instruments would be dilutive.   
   Income Taxes    We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation
are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.   
  When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining
whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of
estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset.      We recognize tax benefits that are more
likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax
benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.   
   Pension and Postretirement Benefits    We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pensions and postretirement health
benefits. In order to measure the expense associated with these benefits, we must make various assumptions including discount rates used to value certain liabilities, expected return on plan assets used to fund these expenses, compensation
increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and expected future health care costs. The assumptions used by us are based on our historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. We use an actuarial analysis to
measure the expense and liability associated with these benefits.       Personal Injury    The cost of injuries to employees and
others on our property is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability. Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present
value. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Asbestos    We estimate a liability for asserted and
unasserted asbestos-related claims based on an assessment of the number and value of those claims. We use a statistical analysis to assist us in properly measuring our potential liability. Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted
to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.       Environmental    When environmental issues have been identified with respect to property currently or formerly owned, leased, or otherwise used in the conduct of our business, we perform, with the
assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on such property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not
discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred.   
   Use of Estimates    Our Consolidated Financial Statements include estimates and assumptions regarding certain assets, liabilities,
revenue, and expenses and the disclosure of certain contingent assets and liabilities. Actual future results may differ from such estimates.   
    3. Accounting Pronouncements    
   In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09),  Revenue from Contracts with
Customers (Topic 606) . ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition guidance in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in the exchange for those goods or services. This   
         58   

Table of Contents  

standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. ASU 2014-09 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.   
    4. Stock Split    
   On June 6, 2014, we completed a two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The stock split
entitled all shareholders of record at the close of business on May 27, 2014, to receive one additional share of our common stock, par value $2.50 per share, for each share of common stock held on that date. All references to common shares and
per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented.   
    5. Stock Options and Other Stock Plans    
   There are 7,140 restricted shares outstanding under the 1992 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific
Corporation. We no longer grant awards of restricted shares under this plan.      In April 2000, the shareholders approved the Union Pacific
Corporation 2000 Directors Plan (Directors Plan) whereby 2,200,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance to our non-employee directors. Under the Directors Plan, each non-employee director, upon his or her initial election to the
Board of Directors, receives a grant of 4,000 retention shares or retention stock units. Prior to December 31, 2007, each non-employee director received annually an option to purchase at fair value a number of shares of our common stock, not to
exceed 20,000 shares during any calendar year, determined by dividing 60,000 by 1/3 of the fair market value of one share of our common stock on the date of such Board of Directors meeting, with the resulting quotient rounded up or down to the
nearest 50 shares. In September 2007, the Board of Directors eliminated the annual payment of options for 2008 and all future years. As of December 31, 2014, 36,000 restricted shares and 78,000 options were outstanding under the Directors Plan.
     The Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (2004 Plan) was approved by shareholders in April 2004. The 2004 Plan reserved
84,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under previous plans that were outstanding on April 16, 2004, and became available for regrant pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Plan. Under the 2004
Plan, non-qualified options, stock appreciation rights, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under
the 2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2014, 4,338,691 options and 3,677,642 retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2004 Plan. We no longer grant any stock options or other stock or unit awards under this plan.   
  The Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (2013 Plan) was approved by shareholders in May 2013. The 2013 Plan reserved 78,000,000
shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under previous plans as of February 28, 2013, that are subsequently cancelled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under previous plans. Under the 2013 Plan,
non-qualified options, incentive stock options, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under the 2013
Plan. As of December 31, 2014, 969,822 options and 1,307,905 retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2013 Plan.   
  Pursuant to the above plans 77,786,772; 79,574,896; and 64,337,040 shares of our common stock were authorized and available for grant at
December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.       Stock-Based Compensation    We have several stock-based compensation
plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to
issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

   Information regarding stock-based compensation appears in the table below:   
   
     Stock Options    We estimate the fair value of our stock option awards using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model. The table below shows the annual weighted-average assumptions used for valuation purposes:       
    The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant; the dividend yield is
calculated as the ratio of dividends paid per share of common stock to the stock price on the date of grant; the expected life is based on historical and expected exercise behavior; and volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock
price over the expected life of the option.      A summary of stock option activity during 2014 is presented below:   
   
    Stock options are granted at the closing price on the date of grant, have ten-year contractual terms, and vest no
later than three years from the date of grant. None of the stock options outstanding at December 31, 2014, are subject to performance or market-based vesting conditions.      At December 31, 2014, there was $15 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1 year. Additional
information regarding stock option exercises appears in the table below:       
 
         60   

Table of Contents  

    Retention Awards    The fair value of retention awards is based on the closing price of the
stock on the grant date. Dividends and dividend equivalents are paid to participants during the vesting periods.      Changes in our retention awards during
2014 were as follows:       
    Retention awards are granted at no cost to the employee or non-employee director and vest over periods lasting up
to four years. At December 31, 2014, there was $87 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.   
   Performance Retention Awards    In February 2014, our Board of Directors approved performance stock unit grants. Other than different
performance targets, the basic terms of these performance stock units are identical to those granted in February 2012 and February 2013, including using annual return on invested capital (ROIC) as the performance measure. We define ROIC as net
operating profit adjusted for interest expense (including interest on the present value of operating leases) and taxes on interest divided by average invested capital adjusted for the present value of operating leases.   
  Stock units awarded to selected employees under these grants are subject to continued employment for 37 months and the attainment of certain levels
of ROIC. We expense the fair value of the units that are probable of being earned based on our forecasted ROIC over the 3-year performance period. We measure the fair value of these performance stock units based upon the closing price of the
underlying common stock as of the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated future dividends. Dividend equivalents are paid to participants only after the units are earned.   
  The assumptions used to calculate the present value of estimated future dividends related to the February 2014 grant were as follows:   
   
    Changes in our performance retention awards during 2014 were as follows:   
   
    At December 31, 2014, there was $36 million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested
performance retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1 year. This expense is subject to achievement of the ROIC levels established for the performance stock unit grants.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

6. Retirement Plans    
    Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits        Pension Plans    We provide defined benefit retirement income to eligible non-union employees through qualified and non-qualified (supplemental) pension plans. Qualified and non-qualified pension
benefits are based on years of service and the highest compensation during the latest years of employment, with specific reductions made for early retirements.       Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB)    We provide medical and life insurance benefits for eligible retirees. These benefits are funded as medical claims and life insurance premiums are paid.   
   Funded Status       We are required by GAAP to
separately recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and OPEB plans as an asset or liability. The funded status represents the difference between the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and the fair value of the plan assets. Our
non-qualified (supplemental) pension plan is unfunded by design. The PBO of the pension plans is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants, including the effect of assumed future compensation increases. The PBO of the OPEB
plan is equal to the accumulated benefit obligation, as the present value of the OPEB liabilities is not affected by compensation increases. Plan assets are measured at fair value. We use a December 31 measurement date for plan assets and
obligations for all our retirement plans.      Changes in our PBO and plan assets were as follows for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 consist of:   

62   

Table of Contents  

   The change in the funded status and accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) is primarily a
result of implementing a new set of mortality tables issued by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014 and lower discount rates.      Pre-tax amounts
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 consist of:       
    Pre-tax changes recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss) during 2014, 2013 and 2012 were as follows:   
   
    Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) expected to be amortized into net periodic cost
during 2015:       
     Underfunded Accumulated Benefit Obligation    The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the present
value of benefits earned to date, assuming no future compensation growth. The underfunded accumulated benefit obligation represents the difference between the ABO and the fair value of plan assets. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the
non-qualified (supplemental) plan ABO was $379 million and $302 million, respectively. The following table discloses only the PBO, ABO, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans where the accumulated benefit obligation is in excess of the fair
value of the plan assets as of December 31:       
    The ABO for all defined benefit pension plans was $3.9 billion and $3.2 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

    Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at
December 31:       
     Expense    
  Both pension and OPEB expense are determined based upon the annual service cost of benefits (the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period)
and the interest cost on those liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period.
This practice is intended to reduce year-to-year volatility in pension expense, but it can have the effect of delaying the recognition of differences between actual returns on assets and expected returns based on long-term rate of return
assumptions. Differences in actual experience in relation to assumptions are not recognized in net income immediately, but are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and, if necessary, amortized as pension or OPEB expense.   
  The components of our net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) were as follows for the years ended December 31:   
   
     Assumptions    The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine expense were as follows:   
   
    The discount rate was based on a yield curve of high quality corporate bonds with cash flows matching our
plans  expected benefit payments. The expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into account current and expected market conditions. The actual return on pension plan assets, net of
fees, was approximately 6% in 2014, 17% in 2013, and 13% in 2012.      Assumed health care cost trend rates have an effect on the expense
and liabilities reported for health care plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate is based on historical rates and expected market conditions. The 2015 assumed health care cost trend rate for employees under 65 is 6.49%. It is assumed the rate
will decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.5% in 2028 and will remain at that level.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

   A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
effects on OPEB:       

Millions    
      
   One % pt.  Increase    

One % pt.  Decrease    

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  1    

$  
  (1)   

Effect on accumulated benefit obligation   

19    

(16)   
       
     Cash Contributions       The following table details our cash contributions for the qualified pension plans and the benefit payments for the non-qualified (supplemental) pension and OPEB plans:   
   
    Our policy with respect to funding the qualified plans is to fund at least the minimum required by law and not more
than the maximum amount deductible for tax purposes. All contributions made to the qualified pension plans in 2014 were voluntary and were made with cash generated from operations.   
  The non-qualified pension and OPEB plans are not funded and are not subject to any minimum regulatory funding requirements. Benefit payments for
each year represent supplemental pension payments and claims paid for medical and life insurance. We anticipate our 2015 supplemental pension and OPEB payments will be made from cash generated from operations.   
   Benefit Payments       The following table
details expected benefit payments for the years 2015 through 2024:       
     Asset Allocation Strategy       Our pension plan asset allocation at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and target allocation for 2015, are as follows:       
    The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to maintain a broadly diversified portfolio designed to achieve
our target average long-term rate of return of 7.5%. While we believe we can achieve a long-term average rate of return of 7.5%, we cannot be certain that the portfolio will perform to our expectations. Assets are strategically allocated among
equity, debt, and other investments in order to achieve a diversification level that reduces fluctuations in investment returns. Asset allocation target ranges for   
         65   

Table of Contents  

equity, debt, and other portfolios are evaluated at least every three years with the assistance of an independent consulting firm. Actual asset allocations are monitored monthly, and rebalancing
actions are executed at least quarterly, if needed.      The pension plan investments are held in a Master Trust. The majority of pension
plan assets are invested in equity securities because equity portfolios have historically provided higher returns than debt and other asset classes over extended time horizons and are expected to do so in the future. Correspondingly, equity
investments also entail greater risks than other investments. Equity risks are balanced by investing a significant portion of the plans  assets in high quality debt securities. The average credit rating of the debt portfolio exceeded A+ as of
December 31, 2014 and 2013. The debt portfolio is also broadly diversified and invested primarily in U.S. Treasury, mortgage, and corporate securities. The weighted-average maturity of the debt portfolio was 12 years at both December 31,
2014 and 2013.      The investment of pension plan assets in securities issued by UPC is explicitly prohibited by the plan for both the
equity and debt portfolios, other than through index fund holdings.       Fair Value Measurements    
  The pension plan assets are valued at fair value. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured
at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Temporary Cash
Investments    These investments consist of U.S. dollars and foreign currencies held in master trust accounts at The Northern Trust Company (the Trustee). Foreign currencies held are reported in terms of U.S. dollars based on currency
exchange rates readily available in active markets. These temporary cash investments are classified as Level 1 investments.   
   Registered Investment Companies    Registered Investment Companies are real estate investments and bond investments registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The real estate investments are traded actively on public exchanges. The share prices for these investments are published at the close of each business day. The Plan s holdings of real estate investments are
classified as Level 1 investments. The bond investments are not traded publicly, but the underlying assets held in these funds are traded on active markets and the prices for these assets are readily observable. The Plan s holdings in bond
investments are classified as Level 2 investments.       Federal Government Securities    Federal Government Securities consist of
bills, notes, bonds, and other fixed income securities issued directly by the U.S. Treasury or by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources.
Federal Government Securities are classified as Level 2 investments.       Bonds and Debentures    Bonds and debentures consist of
fixed income securities issued by U.S. and non-U.S. corporations as well as state, local, and non-U.S. governments. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Corporate, state, and
municipal bonds and debentures are classified as Level 2 investments.       Corporate Stock    This investment category consists
of common and preferred stock issued by U.S. and non-U.S. corporations. Most common shares are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these shares are readily available. Common stock is classified as a Level 1 investment. Preferred shares
included in this category are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources. Preferred stock is classified as a Level 2 investment.   
   Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships    This investment category is comprised of interests in limited partnerships that invest
primarily in privately-held companies. Due to the private nature of the partnership investments, pricing inputs are not readily observable. Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships. These valuations are
based on the application of public market multiples to private company cash flows, market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies, and other methods. The fair value recorded by the Plan is calculated using the net
asset value (NAV) per share, which is derived from the valuation method described here. The Plan s holdings of limited partnership interests are classified as Level 3 investments.   
   Real Estate Partnerships    Most of the Plan s real estate investments are interests in partnerships or
  
         66   

Table of Contents  

other commingled funds. Valuations for the holdings in this category are not based on readily observable inputs and are primarily derived from property appraisals. The fair value recorded by the
Plan is calculated using the NAV per share, which is derived from the valuation method described here. The Plan s interests in real estate partnerships and other commingled funds are classified as Level 3 investments.   
   Common Trust and Other Funds    Common trust funds are comprised of shares or units in commingled funds that are not publicly traded.
The underlying assets in these funds (U.S. stock funds, non-U.S. stock funds, commodity funds, and short term investment funds) are publicly traded on exchanges and price quotes for the assets held by these funds are readily available. Holdings of
common trust funds are classified as Level 2 investments.      This category also includes investments in limited liability companies that
invest in publicly-traded convertible securities, commodities, and other assets. The limited liability company investments are funds that invest in both long and short positions in convertible securities, stocks, commodities, and fixed income
securities. The underlying securities held by the funds are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these investments are readily available. Interests in the limited liability companies are classified as Level 2 investments.   
  As of December 31, 2014, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:   

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.       
         67   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2013, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were
as follows:       

[a]   
     Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.       
  For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, there were no significant transfers in or out of Levels 1, 2, or 3.   
  The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2014:       
    The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements
using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2013:       
 
         68   

Table of Contents  

    Other Retirement Programs        401(k)/Thrift Plan    We provide a defined contribution plan (401(k)/thrift plan) to eligible non-union and union employees for whom we make matching contributions. We match 50 cents for each dollar
contributed by employees up to the first six percent of compensation contributed. Our plan contributions were $19 million in 2014, $18 million in 2013, and $15 million in 2012.   
   Railroad Retirement System    All Railroad employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement System (the System). Contributions made to
the System are expensed as incurred and amounted to approximately $711 million in 2014, $670 million in 2013, and $644 million in 2012.   
   Collective Bargaining Agreements    Under collective bargaining agreements, we participate in multi-employer benefit plans that provide
certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for eligible union employees. Premiums paid under these plans are expensed as incurred and amounted to $52 million in 2014, $57 million in 2013, and $62 million in 2012.   
    7. Other Income    
   Other income included the following for the years ended December 31:   

[a]   
     Non-operating environmental costs and other includes $14 million related to the sale of a permanent easement.       

[b]   
     Rental income includes $17 million related to a land lease contract settlement.       
    8. Income Taxes    
   Components of income tax expense were as follows for the years ended December 31:   

69   

Table of Contents  

   For the years ended December 31, reconciliations between statutory and effective tax rates are as
follows:       
    Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the expected future tax consequences of events that are
reported in different periods for financial reporting and income tax purposes. The majority of our deferred tax assets relate to deductions that already have been claimed for financial reporting purposes but not for tax purposes. The majority of our
deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax bases and financial reporting amounts of our land and depreciable property, due to accelerated tax depreciation (including bonus depreciation), revaluation of assets in purchase
accounting transactions, and differences in capitalization methods.      Deferred income tax (liabilities)/assets were comprised of the
following at December 31:       
    When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may
not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized based on management s judgments using
available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2014 and 2013, there were no valuation allowances.   
  Tax benefits are recognized only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount
recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits are tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement
standards.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of changes in unrecognized tax benefits liabilities/(assets) from the beginning to
the end of the reporting period is as follows:       
    We recognize interest and penalties as part of income tax expense. Total accrued liabilities for interest and
penalties were $6 million at both December 31, 2014 and 2013. Total interest and penalties recognized as part of income tax expense (benefit) were $9 million for 2014, $7 million for 2013, and $(4) million for 2012.   
  Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations have been completed and settled for all years prior to 2009, and the statute of limitations bars any
additional tax assessments. The IRS has completed their examinations and issued notices of deficiency for tax years 2009 through 2010. We disagree with many of their proposed adjustments, and we are at IRS Appeals for those years. Additionally,
several state tax authorities are examining our state income tax returns for years 2006 through 2010.      In the fourth quarter of 2014,
UPC and the IRS signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters for tax years 2005-2008. The settlement had an immaterial effect on our income tax expense. In connection with the settlement, UPC paid $11 million in 2014.   
  In 2012, UPC and the IRS signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters for tax years 1999-2004. The settlement had an immaterial effect on
our income tax expense. In connection with the settlement, we received refunds of $8 million in 2013.      We do not expect our unrecognized
tax benefits to change significantly in the next 12 months. At December 31, 2014, we had a net unrecognized tax benefit liability of $151 million. Of that amount, $6 million is classified as a current liability in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position.      The portion of our unrecognized tax benefits that relates to permanent changes in tax and interest would reduce our
effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits relate to tax positions for which only the timing of the benefit is uncertain. Recognition of the tax benefits with uncertain timing would reduce our effective tax rate only
through a reduction of accrued interest and penalties. The unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce our effective tax rate are as follows:       
 
         71   

Table of Contents  

9. Earnings Per Share    
   The following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31:
      
    Common stock options totaling 0.4 million, 0.5 million, and 1.1 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012,
respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of these options exceeded the average market price of our common stock for the respective periods, and the effect of their inclusion would be
anti-dilutive.   
    10. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)    
   Reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were as follows (net of tax):   

[a]   
     The accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) reclassification components are 1) prior service cost/(benefit) and 2) net actuarial loss which are both
included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 6 Retirement Plans for additional details.       
    11. Accounts Receivable    
   Accounts receivable includes freight and other receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based
upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, our accounts receivable were reduced by $5 million and $1 million, respectively. Receivables not expected to be collected
in one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial   
         72   

Table of Contents  

Position. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, receivables classified as other assets were reduced by allowances of $16 million and $22 million, respectively.   
   Receivables Securitization Facility    On July 29, 2014, we completed the renewal of our receivables securitization facility. The
new $650 million, 3-year facility replaces the prior $600 million, 364-day facility. Under the facility, the Railroad sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote
subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse, an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors. The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors
of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.      The amount outstanding under the facility was $400 million and $0 at
December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively. The facility was supported by $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of accounts receivable as collateral at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively, which, as a
retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.      The outstanding amount
the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $650 million, may fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment
quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change.   
  The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing benchmark and commercial paper rates,
program fees paid to participating banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees of participating banks for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $4 million,
$5 million and $3 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.   
    12. Properties    
   The following tables list the major categories of property and equipment, as well as the weighted-average estimated useful life
for each category (in years):       

[a]   
     Other roadway includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
         73   

Table of Contents  

[a]   
     Other roadway includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.       
   Property and Depreciation    Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type
assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers.
Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service
lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross
tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method
of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset
strategies, or other factors.      We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies.
We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following
factors:       

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;      

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;      

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and      

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.         For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are
closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in
high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the
rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. For all other depreciable
assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from   
         74   

Table of Contents  

the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.   
  Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of
business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated
useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates
inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and
the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our
depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.      For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is
unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not
part of our railroad operations.      When we purchase an asset, we capitalize all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended
use. However, many of our assets are self-constructed. A large portion of our capital expenditures is for replacement of existing track assets and other road properties, which is typically performed by our employees, and for track line expansion and
other capacity projects. Costs that are directly attributable to capital projects (including overhead costs) are capitalized. Direct costs that are capitalized as part of self-constructed assets include material, labor, and work equipment. Indirect
costs are capitalized if they clearly relate to the construction of the asset.      General and administrative expenditures are expensed as
incurred. Normal repairs and maintenance are also expensed as incurred, while costs incurred that extend the useful life of an asset, improve the safety of our operations or improve operating efficiency are capitalized. These costs are allocated
using appropriate statistical bases. Total expense for repairs and maintenance incurred was $2.4 billion for 2014, $2.3 billion for 2013, and $2.1 billion for 2012.      Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. Amortization expense is
computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease.   
    13. Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities    

75   

Table of Contents  

14. Financial Instruments    
    Strategy and Risk    We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances for other than trading purposes
to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial
instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and
relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair
market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel
prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable interest rate and fuel price movements.       Market and Credit Risk    We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We
manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, we were not required to provide collateral, nor
had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.       Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges    We manage our overall
exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of
targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the
interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.   
  Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable
to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no
interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.       Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges    We report changes in the fair value of cash
flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had reductions of $0 and $1 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of
December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.       Earnings Impact    Our use of
derivative financial instruments had no impact on pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012.       Fair
Value of Financial Instruments    The fair value of our short- and long-term debt was estimated using a market value price model, which utilizes applicable U.S. Treasury rates along with current market quotes on comparable debt securities.
All of the inputs used to determine the fair market value of the Corporation s long-term debt are Level 2 inputs and obtained from an independent source. At December 31, 2014, the fair value of total debt was $13.0 billion, approximately
$1.5 billion more than the carrying value. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of total debt was $10.2 billion, approximately $0.6 billion more than the carrying value. The fair value of the Corporation s debt is a measure of its current
value under present market conditions. It does not impact the financial statements under current accounting rules. At both December 31, 2014, and 2013, approximately $163 million of debt securities contained call provisions that allow us to
retire the debt instruments prior to final maturity, with the payment of fixed call premiums, or in certain cases, at par. The fair value of our cash equivalents approximates their carrying value due to the short-term maturities of these
instruments.   
         76   

Table of Contents  

15. Debt    
   Total debt as of December 31, 2014, and 2013, is summarized below:   
   
     Debt Maturities    The following table presents aggregate debt maturities as of December 31, 2014,
excluding market value adjustments:       
     Equipment Encumbrances    Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion
at December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively, served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment.   
  As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying
indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the
mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds.   
   Credit Facilities    During the second quarter of 2014, we replaced our $1.8 billion revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to
expire in May 2015, with a new $1.7 billion facility that expires in May 2019 (the facility). The facility is based on substantially similar terms as those in the previous credit facility. On December 31, 2014, we had $1.7 billion of credit
available under the facility, which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on either facility at any time during 2014. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility
are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior
unsecured debt.      The facility requires that the Corporation maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a
borrowing. At December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013 (and at all times during the year), we were in compliance with this covenant. The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes,
among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital   
         77   

Table of Contents  

leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2014, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $42.4 billion of
debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $11.6 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors
beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision
that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $125 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.      During 2014, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper
balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.   
   Dividend Restrictions    Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section
above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $15.4 billion and $16.3 billion at December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively.
      Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings    Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time
to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore
opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.   
  During 2014, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:   
   
    We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common
stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2014, we had remaining authority to issue up to $1.15 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.
      Subsequent Event    In 2015, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf
registration:       
    Proceeds from this offering are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant
to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. This offering exhausted our current authority to issue debt securities under our existing shelf registration.   
  On February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors approved proceeding with a new shelf registration statement and authorized the issuance of up to
$4.0 billion of debt securities.       Equipment Trust    On May 20, 2014, UPRR consummated a pass-through (P/T) financing,
whereby a P/T trust was created, which issued $500 million of P/T trust certificates with a stated interest rate of 3.227%. The P/T trust certificates will mature on May 14, 2026. The proceeds from the issuance of the
  
         78   

Table of Contents  

P/T trust certificates (net of $3 million in transaction fees) were used to purchase equipment trust certificates to be issued by UPRR to finance the acquisition of 245 locomotives. The equipment
trust certificates are secured by a lien on the locomotives.       Debt Exchange    On August 21, 2013, we exchanged $1,170
million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between 2016 and 2040 (the Existing Notes) for $439 million of 3.646% notes (the New 2024 Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $700 million of 4.821% notes (the New 2044 Notes) due
February 1, 2044, plus cash consideration of approximately $280 million in addition to $8 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition,
this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the
unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs
related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $9 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2013.   
  The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:   
   
     Debt Redemption    On May 14, 2013, we redeemed all $40 million of our outstanding 5.65% Port of
Corpus Christi Authority Revenue Refunding Bonds due December 1, 2022. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $1 million in the second quarter of 2013.   
   Receivables Securitization Facility    As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we recorded $400 million and $0 of borrowings under our
receivables securitization facility, respectively, as secured debt. (See further discussion of our receivables securitization facility in Note 11).   
    16. Variable Interest Entities    
   We have entered into various lease transactions in which the structure of the leases contain variable interest entities (VIEs).
These VIEs were created solely for the purpose of doing lease transactions (principally involving railroad equipment and facilities) and have no other activities, assets or liabilities outside of the lease transactions. Within these lease
arrangements, we have the right to purchase some or all of the assets at fixed prices. Depending on market conditions, fixed-price purchase options available in the leases could potentially provide benefits to us; however, these benefits are not
expected to be significant.      We maintain and operate the assets based on contractual obligations within the lease arrangements, which
set specific guidelines consistent within the railroad industry. As such, we have no control over activities that could materially impact the fair value of the leased assets. We do not hold the power to
  
         79   

Table of Contents  

direct the activities of the VIEs and, therefore, do not control the ongoing activities that have a significant impact on the economic performance of the VIEs. Additionally, we do not have the
obligation to absorb losses of the VIEs or the right to receive benefits of the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the VIEs.   
  We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary and do not consolidate these VIEs because our actions and decisions do not have the most
significant effect on the VIE s performance and our fixed-price purchase options are not considered to be potentially significant to the VIEs. The future minimum lease payments associated with the VIE leases totaled $3.0 billion as of
December 31, 2014.   
    17. Leases    
   We lease certain locomotives, freight cars, and other property. The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of
December 31, 2014 and 2013 included $2,454 million, net of $1,210 million of accumulated depreciation, and $2,486 million, net of $1,092 million of accumulated depreciation, respectively, for properties held under capital leases. A charge to
income resulting from the depreciation for assets held under capital leases is included within depreciation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Future minimum lease payments for operating and capital leases with initial or remaining
non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2014, were as follows:       
    Approximately 95% of capital lease payments relate to locomotives. Rent expense for operating leases with terms
exceeding one month was $593 million in 2014, $618 million in 2013, and $631 million in 2012. When cash rental payments are not made on a straight-line basis, we recognize variable rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals and sub-rentals are not significant.   
    18. Commitments and Contingencies    
    Asserted and Unasserted Claims    Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries.
We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable
and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.       Personal Injury    The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use
an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault
through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.      Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 93% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and
approximately 7% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2014. Because of the uncertainty   
         80   

Table of Contents  

surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $335 million to $368 million. We record
an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation.   
  Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:       
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2014, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries.
We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2014, and 2013.       Asbestos    We are a
defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is
updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:   

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.      

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.      

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.      

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.      
  Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.
Approximately 21% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 79% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2014. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is
reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $126 million to $135 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.
     Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:   
   
    In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2014, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries.
We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2014, and 2013. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events,
such as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future
if strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of
  
         81   

Table of Contents  

claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.       Environmental Costs    We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 270 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with
alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 29 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 16 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal
legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own
activities at each site.      When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our
business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be
reasonably estimated. Our environmental liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.      Our environmental liability activity was as follows:       
    The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing
monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and
regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination
by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing
environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.       Insurance    The Company has a consolidated, wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the captive), that provides insurance coverage for certain risks including FELA claims and property coverage which
are subject to reinsurance. The captive entered into annual reinsurance treaty agreements that insure workers compensation, general liability, auto liability and FELA risk. The captive cedes a portion of its FELA exposure through the treaty and
assumes a proportionate share of the entire risk. The captive receives direct premiums, which are netted against the Company s premium costs in other expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The treaty agreements provide for certain
protections against the risk of treaty participants  non-performance, and we do not believe our exposure to treaty participants  non-performance is material at this time. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company
is not relieved of its primary obligation to the policyholders for activity prior to the termination of the treaty agreements. We record both liabilities and reinsurance receivables using an actuarial analysis based on historical experience in our
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.       Guarantees    At December 31, 2014, and 2013, we were contingently
liable for $82 million and $299 million in guarantees. We have recorded liabilities of $0.3 million and $1 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We entered into these contingent
guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our equipment financings and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would
require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

    Indemnities    Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including
certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we
cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to
make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.       Gain Contingency    UPRR and Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines (SFPP,
a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.) currently are engaged in a proceeding to resolve the fair market rent payable to UPRR commencing on January 1, 2004, for pipeline easements on UPRR rights-of-way ( Union Pacific Railroad
Company vs. Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines, Inc., SFPP, L.P., Kinder Morgan Operating L.P.  D  Kinder Morgan G.P., Inc., et al., Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles, filed July 28, 2004 ). In
February 2007, a trial began to resolve this issue, and in May 2012, the trial judge rendered an opinion establishing the fair market rent and entering judgment for back rent, including prejudgment interest. SFPP appealed the judgment. On
November 5, 2014, the Second District Circuit Court of Appeal in California issued an opinion holding that UPRR was not entitled to collect rent from SFPP for easements on the portions of the property acquired solely through Federal government
land grants issued during the 1800s. The Appellate Court also reversed the award of prejudgment interest and remanded the case to the trial court. A favorable final judgment may materially affect UPRR s results of operations in the period of
any monetary recoveries. Due to the uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of any recovery or any subsequent proceedings, we consider this a gain contingency and do not reflect any amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of
December 31, 2014.   
    19. Share Repurchase Program    
   Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 120 million shares of our common
stock by December 31, 2017, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of December 31, 2014, we repurchased a total of $12.6 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007. The table below
represents shares repurchased in 2013 under our previous repurchase program, and shares repurchased in 2014 under the new program.       
    Management s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all
repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in
treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.      From January 1, 2015, through February 6, 2015, we
repurchased 2.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $327 million.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

20. Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited)    
    
    Per share net income for the four quarters combined may not equal the per share net income for the year due to
rounding.   

         84   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure        None.        
 Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures        As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that
any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based upon that evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as of the end of the period
covered by this report, the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified by the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
  Additionally, the CEO and CFO determined that there were no changes to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) during the last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   
         85   

Table of Contents  

      MANAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
      The management of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). The Corporation s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Corporation s
management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements.      All internal
control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.   
  The Corporation s management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2014. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013).  Based on our assessment,
management believes that, as of December 31, 2014, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on
the next page.      February 5, 2015   
         86   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation      Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Union Pacific
Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in
the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors,
management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal
control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014, of the Corporation and our report dated February 6, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement
schedule.         

Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 6, 2015   
         87   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B.  Other Information     
  None.          PART III
          Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance     

(a)  
    Directors of Registrant.         Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC, terms of office, periods of service, business experience during the past five years and certain other directorships held by each director or person
nominated to become a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of Directors segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit Committee and the independence of its members, along with information about the audit committee financial expert(s) serving on the Audit Committee, is set forth in the Audit
Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.       

(b)  
    Executive Officers of Registrant.         Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its subsidiaries is presented in Part I of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries.

(c)  
    Section 16(a) Compliance.         Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and
is incorporated herein by reference.       

(d)  
    Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers of Registrant.      
  The Board of Directors of UPC has adopted the UPC Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers (the
Code). A copy of the Code may be found on the Internet at our website www.up.com/investors/governance. We intend to disclose any amendments to the Code or any waiver from a provision of the Code on our website.   
     Item 11.  Executive Compensation        Information concerning compensation received by our directors and our named executive officers is presented in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Summary Compensation Table, Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
Fiscal Year 2014, Outstanding Equity Awards at 2014 Fiscal Year-End, Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal Year 2014, Pension Benefits at 2014 Fiscal Year-End, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation at 2014 Fiscal Year-End, Potential Payments Upon
Termination or Change in Control and Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2014 segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding compensation of directors, including Board committee members, is
set forth in the By-Laws of UPC and the Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors, both of which are included as exhibits to this report. Information regarding the Compensation and Benefits Committee is set forth in
the Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and Compensation Committee Report segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

      Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
Related Stockholder Matters        Information as to the number of shares of our equity securities beneficially owned by each of our
directors and nominees for director, our named executive officers, our directors and executive officers as a group, and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management segment of the Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which UPC common
stock may be issued as of December 31, 2014:       

[2]   
     Does not include the retention units or retention shares described above in footnote 1.       
     Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
  Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. We do not have any relationship with any outside third party that would enable such a party to negotiate terms of a material transaction that may not be
available to, or available from, other parties on an arm s-length basis.      Information regarding the independence of our directors
is set forth in the Director Independence segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.   
     Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
  Information concerning the fees billed by our independent registered public accounting firm and the nature of services comprising the fees for each
of the two most recent fiscal years in each of the following categories: (i) audit fees, (ii) audit-related fees, (iii) tax fees, and (iv) all other fees, is set forth in the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s
Fees and Services segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information concerning our Audit
Committee s policies and procedures pertaining to pre-approval of audit and non-audit services rendered by our independent registered public accounting firm is set forth in the Audit Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated
herein by reference.   
         89   

Table of Contents  

       PART IV     
     Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     

(a)  
    Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and Exhibits:      

(1)  
    Financial Statements         The financial statements filed as part of this filing are listed on the index to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, on page 50.   

(2)  
    Financial Statement Schedules         Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      Schedules not listed above have been
omitted because they are not applicable or not required or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, or notes thereto.   

Exhibits are listed in the exhibit index beginning on page 93. The exhibits include management contracts, compensatory plans and
arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K by Item 601 (10) (iii) of Regulation S-K.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 6   th    day of February, 2015.      UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION   
  By   /s/ Lance M. Fritz    
        Lance M. Fritz,   
        President and   
        Chief Executive Officer   
        Union Pacific Corporation   
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below, on this 6   th    day of February, 2015, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated.      PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER   
  AND DIRECTOR:             /s/ Lance M. Fritz    
        Lance M. Fritz,   
        President and   
        Chief Executive Officer   
        Union Pacific Corporation   
  PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:             /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
        Robert M. Knight, Jr.,   
        Executive Vice President - Finance   
        and Chief Financial Officer   
  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:             /s/ Jeffrey P. Totusek    
        Jeffrey P. Totusek,   
        Vice President and Controller       DIRECTORS:        

Andrew H. Card, Jr.*   
      
        Michael R. McCarthy*    
 
    Erroll B. Davis, Jr.*   
      
        Michael W. McConnell*    
 
    David B. Dillon*   
      
        Thomas F. McLarty III*    
 
    Judith Richards Hope*   
      
        Steven R. Rogel*    
 
    John J. Koraleski*   
      
        Jose H. Villarreal*    
 
    Charles C. Krulak*   

* By   /s/ James J. Theisen, Jr.               James J. Theisen, Jr., Attorney-in-fact   
         91   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies        
 
         92   

Table of Contents  

    UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Exhibit Index        

Exhibit No.    
     
     Description     

Filed with this Statement   

10(a)  
     
    Form of Performance Stock Unit Agreement dated February 5, 2015.    

10(b)  
     
    Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives dated February 5, 2015.    

10(c)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives dated February 5, 2015.    

12  
     
    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.    

21  
     
    List of the Corporation s significant subsidiaries and their respective states of incorporation.    

23  
     
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Consent.    

24  
     
    Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.    

31(a)  
     
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   Lance M.
Fritz.    

31(b)  
     
    Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

32  
     
    Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   Lance M. Fritz and Robert M. Knight,
Jr.    

101  
     
    eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents submitted electronically: 101.INS (XBRL Instance Document), 101.SCH (XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document),
101.CAL (XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document), 101.LAB (XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document), 101.DEF (XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document) and 101.PRE (XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document). The following financial and related
information from Union Pacific Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (filed with the SEC on February 6, 2015), is formatted in XBRL and submitted electronically herewith: (i) Consolidated Statements of
Income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 2014 and
December 31, 2013, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (v) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholders  Equity for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and
(vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Incorporated by Reference   

3(a)  
     
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended and restated through June 27, 2011, and as further amended May 15, 2014, are incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014.     
         93   

Table of Contents  

94   

Table of Contents  

Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended February 1, 2013, and March 1, 2013 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to
the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(h)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, as amended February 5, 2015, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.    

10(i)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(j)  
     
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(k)  
     
    Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended December 17, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to the
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.    

10(l)  
     
    1992 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended as of January 28, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 16, 1993.    

10(m)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan, effective as of April 21, 2000, as amended November 16, 2006, January 30, 2007 and January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(n)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Non-Grandfathered Component), effective as of January 1, 2009 is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(o)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Grandfathered Component), as amended and restated in its
entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.    

10(p)  
     
    Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan, effective May 16, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Corporation s Form S-8 dated
May 17, 2013.    

10(q)  
     
    UPC 2004 Stock Incentive Plan amended March 1, 2013,, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2013.    

10(r)  
     
    Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail
Corporation (SP) is incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).    

10(s)  
     
    Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific Transportation Company    
 
         95   

Table of Contents  

(SPT), The Denver   Rio Grande Western Railroad Company (D RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and
Burlington Northern Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe), on the other hand, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No.  33-64707).     

10(t)  
     
    Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand, is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC s Registration Statement on  Form S-4  (No.  33-64707).     

10(u)  
     
    The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.    

10(v)  
     
    Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.    

10(w)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2012.    

10(x)  
     
    Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2012.    

10(y)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2013.    

10(z)  
     
    Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2013.    

10(aa)  
     
    Form of 2012 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2011.    

10(bb)  
     
    Form of 2013 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2012.    

10(cc)  
     
    Form of 2014 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2013.    

10(dd)  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Directors is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2004.    

10(ee)  
     
    Executive Incentive Plan (2005)   Deferred Compensation Program, dated December 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.    

99  
     
    Form of U.S. $1,700,000,000 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2014, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99(a) to the Corporation s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014.    
 
         96   

<EX-10.(A)>
 2
 d865355dex10a.htm
 EX-10.(A)

EX-10.(a) 

Exhibit 10(a)        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS       FOR
GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the number of Stock Units specified below (the  Award ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan and described in this Grant Notice, and
the Union Pacific Corporation Long Term Plan (the  Long Term Plan ) approved and adopted by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ), each as amended from time to time.
Each Stock Unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the Company s common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard
Terms and Conditions, and the Long Term Plan. This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and the Long Term Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.   

Name of Participant:   
      
    FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME  
  ID: EMPLOYEE_ID    

Grant Date:   
      
    2/5/2015    

Grant Number:   
      
    OPTION_NUMBER    

Maximum Number of Stock Units subject to the Award:  
       The Stock Unit Target Award (amount of stock units granted at
Target is half the amount shown).  The amount of stock units shown is the  maximum  number of shares that the Participant is eligible to receive in accordance with the program design shown in the Long Term Plan Summary. The actual
number of shares paid, if any, depends on the achievement level of the applicable performance criteria.   
      
    X,XXX    

Restriction Period:   
      
    3 years    

Restriction Period Commencement Date:   
      
    2/5/2015    

Restriction Period Termination Date:   
      
    2/5/2018    
    By electronically accepting this Award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees
that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions, and the Long Term Plan (including, but not limited to, the Committee s discretionary authority under the Long Term Plan to
determine the number of Stock Units payable with respect to the Award). The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to
applicable securities   

laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Stock Units via Company website or other electronic delivery.   
  THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE AWARD AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING
WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.       UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION
       STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR        PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS       These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Award of performance
stock units granted pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which are evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions. In addition to these Standard
Terms and Conditions, the performance stock units shall be subject to the terms of the Plan and the Long Term Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meaning set forth in the Plan.        PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS     

1.   
     TERMS OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS          Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) an award of a
number of performance stock units (the  Award  or the  Stock Units ) specified in the Grant Notice. Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive (i) one share of the Company s common stock, $2.50 par value per share
(the  Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), provided the applicable Performance Criteria
described below have been satisfied. The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan, each as amended from time to time. For purposes of these
Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary.       

2.   
     VESTING OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS          The Award shall not be vested as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice and shall be forfeitable until the end of the Restriction Period, unless otherwise provided under these Standard Terms and
Conditions. After the end of the Restriction Period, subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan, and to the extent the Performance Criteria described below have been
satisfied, the Award shall become vested as of the Restriction Period Termination Date set forth in the Grant Notice with respect to that number of Stock Units determined by the Committee to be paid pursuant to the Award. Unless the Committee shall
determine otherwise, a period in which the Participant is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company shall count toward satisfaction of the Restriction Period.   

3.   
     PERFORMANCE CRITERIA          The Performance Criteria is annual Return on Invested Capital ( ROIC ). However, such Performance Criteria is of no force and effect unless and until the Company has operating income ( Operating
Income ) in one or more of fiscal years 2015, 2016 or 2017. The definition and calculation of annual ROIC and Operating Income shall be determined in accordance with the Long Term Plan.   
         2   

The Participant may earn Stock Units during the Restriction Period based on the
Company s satisfaction of the Performance Criteria in accordance with the ROIC targets and payout schedule approved by the Committee, subject to Section 6(ii) hereof and the Committee s discretion under the Long Term Plan to determine
the number of Stock Units payable with respect to the Award. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, the Participant may earn up to one-third of the Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice based on the first fiscal year
(2015) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, the Participant may earn up to a total of two-thirds of the Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice (less any Stock Units earned in the first
fiscal year) based on the average of the first two fiscal years (2015 and 2016) of ROIC performance achieved. For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017, the Participant may earn up to two times the Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the
Grant Notice (less any Stock Units earned in the first two fiscal years) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2015, 2016, and 2017) of ROIC performance achieved.   

4.   
     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS          For all dividend record dates occurring while the Participant is employed and between the date that Stock Units are earned and the earlier of the date the Stock Units are forfeited or the date that shares are
delivered to the Participant, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those Stock Units which have been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof. For this purpose, Stock Units are earned in accordance
with Section 3 hereof for a fiscal year on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing the ROIC performance level achieved for such fiscal year, provided the Company has Operating Income in that fiscal year, or for fiscal years 2016
and 2017, the previous fiscal year. Notwithstanding the foregoing:      (i) If the Participant earns Stock
Units in accordance with Section 3 hereof that are payable to the Participant as specified in Section 6(ii) hereof, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant, the Participant s estate or beneficiary, as applicable,
shall further receive Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such Stock Units for all dividend record dates occurring after the Participant is Separated from Service or determined to be disabled under the provisions of an applicable long-term
disability plan of the Company, through the date the shares are delivered as provided in and subject to the adjustment described in Section 6(ii) hereof; and   
  (ii) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if the Participant remains continuously employed with the
Company, but is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with an applicable leave of absence policy adopted by the Company, for all dividend record dates occurring while the Participant is on such leave of absence and
between the date that Stock Units are earned and the earlier of the date the Stock Units are forfeited or the date that shares are delivered to the Participant, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those
Stock Units which have been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof.      Any such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall
be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments (such date to be on or after the date the corresponding Stock Units are earned); provided, however, that (i) if the Participant has elected
to defer receipt of such Stock Units in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such earned and deferred
Stock Units which relate to dividends paid on and after the date of the deferral of such Stock Units (i.e., the date that the Stock Units would have been payable to the Participant under the Plan had such Stock Units not been deferred under the
Company s Deferred Compensation Plan) shall be reinvested as part of the Award Account under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, and shall be deferred for payment at the same time as the Award Account is paid under the terms of the
Company s Deferred Compensation Plan and (ii) if such Dividend Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units for which payment is delayed as described in Section 6(i) hereof, on the date such Stock Units are paid.   
         3   

5.   
     RESTRICTIONS          Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the following restrictions apply to the Stock Units:      (i) The Participant shall be entitled to delivery of the shares of Common Stock as specified in Section 6 hereof;      (ii) None of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of;      (iii) The Participant s right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earlier of the Participant s Separation from Service with
the Company, except as provided in Section 4(ii) and Section 6(ii) hereof, or the Participant s receipt of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof;   
  (iv) All of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive
Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company in the event of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company without having a right to delivery of shares of Common Stock under Section 6
hereof; and      (v) Any Stock Units not earned as of the Restriction Period Termination Date shall be forfeited and all of
the Participant s rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company.       

6.   
     ACCELERATION/LAPSE OF RESTRICTION PERIOD          Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the Stock Units shall be treated as follows:      (i) Following the end of the Restriction Period and provided the Participant has remained continuously employed by the Company through the Restriction Period Termination Date and absent any Change of Control before
the Restriction Period Termination Date in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined
by the Committee) based on the achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) free of all
restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2015, 2016 or 2017. The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(i) shall be made to the Participant within thirty (30) days of the
Restriction Period Termination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period when the Company determines that the delivery of shares hereunder would violate
any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements and (B) the date on
which shares are delivered to the Participant (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and address tax withholding and/or other administrative
matters; provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units or, if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the
Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) shall in no event be later than the last day of the calendar year that includes the Restriction Period Termination Date.   
  (ii) If the Participant: (A) has a Separation from Service with the Company due to (1) death or (2) retiring after
having attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s pension plan ( Retirement ) (including a Separation from Service described in Section   
         4   

6(iv) hereof on or after the date the Participant satisfies the age and service criteria for Retirement); or (B) is determined to be disabled under the provisions of an applicable long-term
disability plan of the Company ( Disability ) (each a  Lapse Event ), prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date and prior to a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not
assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units, the Participant, the Participant s estate or the Participant s beneficiary, as applicable (each a  Payee ), shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number
of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2015, 2016 and 2017) of the applicable Performance Criteria achieved prorated based on the number of fiscal years in the Restriction
Period during which the Participant remained continuously employed by the Company until September 30   th    of that year ( e.g. , if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2015, then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 33 1/3% of the earned Stock Units; if the
Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2016, then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 66 2/3% of the earned Stock Units; and if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30,
2017, then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 100% of the earned Stock Units), provided that the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2015, 2016 or 2017. The Payee shall be entitled to receive Dividend
Equivalent Payments respecting all Stock Units earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof through the end of the fiscal year ending before the Participant s Lapse Event for all dividend record dates occurring after the Participant s
Lapse Event (or, if later, the date the Stock Units for a fiscal year are earned) and thereafter during the Restriction Period until the Payee receives Common Stock under this Section 6(ii), notwithstanding the Participant s Lapse Event.
The Committee shall adjust the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to the Payee and/or the total number of shares of Common Stock paid to the Payee following the end of the Restriction Period so that the total amount of such
Dividend Equivalent Payments made to the Payee does not exceed the amount that would have been made based on the number of Stock Units which are earned as set forth in this Section 6(ii). The payment of the Stock Units earned under this
Section 6(ii) shall be made within thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar year that includes the Restriction Period Termination Date. A Participant who has a
Lapse Event and subsequently returns to employment with the Company before the end of the Restriction Period shall not be eligible to earn additional Stock Units beyond those described in this Section 6(ii).   
  (iii) Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, prior to the termination of the Participant s employment
for any reason, in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units and such Change in Control occurs prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date, shares of Common Stock equal
to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of each fiscal year ending prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control and through the
end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third party administrator, if applicable) free of all
restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2015, 2016 or 2017 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the calendar year in which the Change in Control occurs. No additional Stock
Units granted as part of the Award may be earned following the Change in Control. Shares of Common Stock to which the Participant is entitled pursuant to this Section 6(iii) shall be delivered as soon as practicable following the date on which
the Change in Control occurs, but in no event later than two and one-half (2   1   /   2   ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Change in Control occurs.    
  (iv) If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service because such Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by
the Company (other than a termination as a result of the Participant s Disability, cause or gross misconduct as determined by the Committee), within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving
company in the transaction assumes or continues the outstanding Stock Units and such   
         5   

Separation from Service occurs prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date and prior to the Participant having satisfied the age and service criteria for Retirement prior to such Separation
from Service, shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of each fiscal year ending prior to the occurrence
of such Change in Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third party
administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2015, 2016 or 2017 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the calendar year in which the Change
in Control occurs. The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(iv) shall be made as soon as practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than two and one-half (2   1   /   2   ) 
months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Separation from Service occurs.       (v) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6, all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part
of the Company unless the Participant remains in the continuous employment of the Company (such continuous employment shall, for this purpose, include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with
a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company) until the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock
Units. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, if it finds that the circumstances in the particular case so warrant, allow a Participant who ceases to be so continuously employed and has a Separation from Service prior to the earlier of
the Restriction Period Termination Date or such Change in Control to retain some or all of the Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of the fiscal
year ending prior to the year in which the Participant incurs such Separation from Service, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2015, 2016 or 2017 and further provided that any such fiscal year precedes the
year in which the Participant Separates from Service. In such event, the payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(v) shall be as soon as practicable following the date on which the Committee authorizes such payment, but in no event later
than two and one-half (2   1   /   2   ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs.    
  (vi) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of payment of shares underlying the Stock Units to
the extent and according to the terms, if any, provided by the Deferred Compensation Plan. If the Participant does so elect to defer payment of shares underlying the Stock Units, such payments will be made in accordance with the Deferred
Compensation Plan.        PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY        By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following.   

7.   
     CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS          The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets,
business or affairs of the Company or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being
known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   
         6   

8 .  
     TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS       
  The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or has had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of
the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial
information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans;
succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints
regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. The Participant agrees that any unauthorized disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets
would constitute gross misconduct.       

9.   
     AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       
  The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources
officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer
or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any
electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

10.   
     PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC          (i) The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 12, this would
create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the Company. The
Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant
agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her intention to accept such employment
or affiliation. The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential
Information or Trade Secrets.      (ii) If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are unable to reach agreement on this
issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin to work for another person or
entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 12, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s
Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       
    The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 9 or 10 above, he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of
Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received)   
         7   

which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such
promise made in Section 9 or 10, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent)
to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set
off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to
him or her under the Award absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 9 and 10 above.        NO
DIRECT COMPETITION        By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges
and agrees to the following.       

12.   
     NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION       
  The Participant agrees that for a period of one year following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly
or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar
in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with
the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation),
guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation
of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way
of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 12 is not intended to prevent the
Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Award absent his or her
agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 12.       

13.   
     ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF          The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 9, 10 and 12. The
Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints
is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she
are bound by such restraints. The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 9, 10 and 12, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. The Participant therefore agrees that the
Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without   
         8   

limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 11 and 14, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants. The Participant and the Company
further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 9, 10 and 12 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too
great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.       

14.   
     VIOLATION OF PROMISES          The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 12, then he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market
value thereof) granted to him or her by the Grant Notice which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with
the promises he or she made in Section 12. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The
Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that
might be owed to him or her by the Company.        GENERAL     
   
    The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Award or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to
his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act,
except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under
federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of
contract and the law of tort. The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this
agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the
Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or
any of its affiliates. The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may
grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the
arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless
otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
  
         9   

If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in
scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect.   

17.   
     CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION          All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all
claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions. Sections 10(ii) and 12 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
   
    The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.   

19.   
     RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES          The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any
Common Stock issued in respect of vested Stock Units, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and
other holders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.       
    The Company shall not deliver shares in respect of any Stock Units unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations. Unless the Participant
pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the delivery of the Common Stock, withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the vesting
of the Stock Units (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company). The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the
right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the delivery of the Stock Units from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages).   

21.   
     NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARD          The Participant understands, acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise directly or indirectly encumbered or
disposed of prior to the payment of the Common Stock to the Participant as provided in Section 6 hereof.   
         10   

22.   
     RESTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL RESULTS          By electronically accepting this Award, the Participant agrees that he or she will return such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company as determined by the Committee in its
exclusive discretion, which shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and the Participant. The Committee will exercise its discretion only in the event that the Committee s certification of the level of ROIC was based on financial
results subsequently revised by a restatement of such financial results and only to the extent that such restated financial results would have entitled the Participant to a lesser award of Common Stock under the Performance Criteria.   

23.   
     LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS       
  Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the
Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan, the Long Term Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions except as
to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon vesting of the Stock Units. Nothing in the Plan, the Long Term Plan, the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed
pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason.   

24.   
     OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED          The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Stock Units. Any prior agreements,
commitments or negotiations concerning the Stock Units are superseded.   
         11   

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-10.(B)>
 3
 d865355dex10b.htm
 EX-10.(B)

EX-10.(b) 

Exhibit 10(b)        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   STOCK UNITS       FOR GOOD AND
VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the number of Stock Units specified below (the  Award ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this
Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan described in this Grant Notice, and, as
applicable, the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan (the  Key Employee Continuity Plan ), each as amended from time to time. Each Stock Unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the
Company s common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions. This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and, as applicable, the
Key Employee Continuity Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.       

Name of Participant:   
      
    FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME  
  ID: EMPLOYEE_ID    

Grant Date:   
      
    2/5/2015    

Grant Number:   
      
    OPTION_NUMBER    

Number of Stock Units subject to the Award:   
      
    X,XXX    

Restriction Period:   
      
    4 years    

Restriction Period Commencement Date:   
      
    2/5/2015    

Restriction Period Termination Date:   
      
    2/5/2019    
    By electronically accepting this Award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees
that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan (including, but not limited to, the Key Employee Continuity Plan s requirement
that the Participant execute a general release of employment-related claims). The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to
applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Stock Units via Company website or other electronic delivery.      THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE AWARD AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND
THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.   

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR        STOCK UNITS       These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Award of stock units granted
pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which are evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions. In addition to these Standard Terms and Conditions,
the stock units shall be subject to the terms of the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by this reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall
have the meaning set forth in the Plan.        STOCK UNITS     

1.   
     TERMS OF STOCK UNITS          Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) an award of a
number of stock units (the  Award  or the  Stock Units ) specified in the Grant Notice. Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive (i) one share of the Company s common stock, $2.50 par value per share (the
 Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock from time to time ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), upon the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, each as amended from time to time. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant
Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary.       

2.   
     VESTING OF STOCK UNITS          The Award shall not be vested as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice and shall be forfeitable unless and until otherwise vested pursuant to the terms of the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms and
Conditions, the terms of the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan. After the end of the Restriction Period, subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, if applicable,
the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the Award shall become vested as of the Restriction Period Termination Date described in the Grant Notice with respect to that number of Stock Units as set forth in the Grant Notice. Unless the Compensation and
Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ) shall determine otherwise, a period of time in which the Participant is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence
policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary shall count toward satisfaction of the Restriction Period.       

3.   
     DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS          The Participant will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock have been issued to the Participant following the Restriction Period Termination Date as described in the Grant Notice (or
such earlier date as otherwise provided in Section 5(i) or Section 5(iii) hereof) and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares. Stock Units shall not entitle the Participant to any rights of a shareholder of
Common Stock and there are no voting rights with respect to the Stock Units. During the Restriction Period and during any period following the end of the Restriction Period in which delivery of shares of Common Stock is: (i) deferred pursuant
to the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan; or (ii) delayed in accordance with Section 5(i) hereof; unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments. Such
Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however, that (i) if the Participant has elected to defer receipt of the Stock Units in
accordance with the terms of the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such deferred Stock Units which relate to dividends paid on   
         2   

and after the date of the deferral of such Stock Units (i.e., the date that the Stock Units would have been payable to the Participant under the Plan had such Stock Units not been deferred under
the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan) shall be reinvested as part of the Award Account under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, and shall be deferred for payment at the same time as the Award Account is paid under the terms of
the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan; and (ii) if such Dividend Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units who payment is delayed as described in Section 5(i) hereof, on the date such Stock Units are paid. Except as provided above,
a Participant s right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earliest of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary, payment of
the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof or at the Restriction Period Termination Date, except that:   
  (A) in the event the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until
September 30, 2015, and is age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan at any time during the Restriction Period during the Participant s period of continuous employment
(satisfaction of both the September 30, 2015 continuous employment requirement and age and service requirements is known as  Retirement Status ), such Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance
with this Section 3 hereof until the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof, notwithstanding any Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary on or after
attaining Retirement Status; and      (B) in the event the Participant remains continuously employed with the
Company or a Subsidiary, but is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary, such Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in
accordance with this Section 3 hereof during the period of such leave of absence until the earlier of the date that is the end of such leave of absence, the Restriction Period Termination Date or payment of the Common Stock under Section 5
hereof, notwithstanding any Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of such leave of absence.       

4.   
     ACCELERATION/LAPSE OF RESTRICTION PERIOD          Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the Stock Units shall be treated as follows in connection with the Participant s Separation from Service:   
  (i) If the Participant has a Separation from Service prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date by reason of the
Participant s death, the Stock Units shall immediately vest, all restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full to the Participant s beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, in
accordance with Section 5 hereof.      (ii) In the event the Participant is determined to be disabled under the
provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan, the Stock Units shall immediately vest, all restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full in accordance with
Section 5 hereof.      (iii) If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service because such Participant s
employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a termination as a result of disability, cause or gross misconduct as determined by the Committee), within two (2) years following a Change in Control
(as defined in the Plan), the Stock Units shall immediately vest and the remaining restrictions with respect to the Stock Units, including any remaining Restriction Period, shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full in accordance with
Section 5 hereof.   
         3   

(iv) In the event of a Change in Control prior to the Restriction Period Termination
Date in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the Stock Units upon the Change in Control, the Restriction Period and all other restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse immediately
prior to the Change in Control and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof.      (v) In the
event the Participant has attained Retirement Status (within the meaning of Section 3(A) hereof) at any time during the Restriction Period that is on or after September 30, 2015, and during the Participant s period of continuous
employment, the Restriction Period shall lapse on the date the Participant attains Retirement Status and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof.   
  (vi) Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs (i) through (v), if the Participant is an Eligible Employee (within the meaning
of the Key Employee Continuity Plan) in the Key Employee Continuity Plan and incurs a Severance within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the Participant s Stock Units shall vest and be paid in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, including without limitation the requirement that the Participant execute an appropriate general release of employment-related claims.   
  (vii) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 hereof, all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the
Participant s rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless the Participant remains in the continuous employment of the Company or a Subsidiary
(such continuous employment shall, for this purpose, include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary) for the entire
Restriction Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, if it finds that the circumstances in the particular case so warrant, allow a Participant who ceases to be so continuously employed and has a Separation from Service prior to the
Restriction Period Termination Date to retain some or all of the Stock Units. In such event, the Restriction Period and all other restrictions with respect to the retained Stock Units shall lapse, and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance
with Section 5 hereof.       

5.   
     PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS          (i) Subject to Section 25 of the Plan and Sections 4, 5(ii) and 5(iii) hereof, vested Stock Units shall be settled by the delivery to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the
Company s designated third party stock administrator) or the Participant s beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, of one share of Common Stock per vested Stock Unit:   
  (A) except as provided in (B) below, within 30 days of the first to occur of the Restriction Period Termination
Date or the Participant s right to payment arising under Section 4(i), 4(ii), 4(iii), 4(iv) or 4(vii) hereof;      (B) if the Participant s Stock Units are determined to constitute  deferred compensation  subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, such Stock Units shall be paid to the Participant within
thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date in the event that the Participant s right to payment:       

(1)  
    under Section 4(ii) or Section 4(iv) hereof arises before the Restriction Period Termination Date and after the date the Restriction Period lapses
in accordance with Section 4(v) hereof;          

(2)  
    arises under Section 4(iii) hereof; or          

(3)  
    arises under Section 4(vii) hereof.      
         4   

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver
any shares of Common Stock during any period in which the Company reasonably anticipates that the delivery of shares hereunder would: (A) violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive
legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements; or (B) result in the reduction or elimination of the Company s deduction under Internal Revenue Code section
162(m) with respect to such delivery of shares, and (ii) the date on which shares are delivered to the Participant (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate
to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters; provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units, or if such Dividend
Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) for Stock Units that are determined to be exempt from the requirements of Internal
Revenue Code   409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies the  short-term deferral  exception described in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and for Stock Units subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A shall in
all events be made at a time that satisfies Treas. Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(7).      (ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Participant may elect to defer receipt of payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units pursuant to the terms of, and in accordance with the provisions of, the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan. If the Participant elects to defer
payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units, such payment will be made in accordance with the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan.      (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is an Eligible Employee (within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan) in the Key Employee Continuity Plan and incurs a Severance within the meaning
of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, provided the Participant has executed a general release of
employment-related claims in the form prescribed by the Key Employee Continuity Plan.        PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY
       By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the
following.       

6.   
     CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS          The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets,
business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value
from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   

7 .  
     TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS       
  The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of
the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial
information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans;
succession plans; proprietary   
         5   

company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external
claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that any
unauthorized disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct.       

8.   
     AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       
  The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources
officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer
or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any
electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

9.   
     PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC          (i) The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 11
( Entity ), this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other Entity to the
detriment of the Company. The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms
and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another Entity he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her
intention to accept such employment or affiliation. The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without
improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      (ii) If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are
unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin
to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 11, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper
disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       
    The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 8 or 9 above, he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of
Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received) which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply
with any such promise made in Section 8 or 9, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash
equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without
limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be   
         6   

owed to him or her by the Company. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to him or her under the Grant Notice
absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 8 and 9 above.        NO DIRECT COMPETITION
       By electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the
following.       

11 .  
     NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION       
  The Participant agrees that for a period of one year following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly
or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar
in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with
the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation),
guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation
of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way
of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 11 is not intended to prevent the
Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Grant Notice absent his
or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 11.       

12.   
     ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF          The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 8, 9 and 11. The
Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints
is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she
are bound by such restraints. The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 8, 9 and 11, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. The Participant therefore agrees that the
Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 10 and 13, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants. The
Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 8, 9 and 11 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a
geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.   
         7   

13.   
     VIOLATION OF PROMISES          The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 11, then he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market
value thereof) granted to him or her by the Grant Notice which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with
the promises he or she made in Section 11. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The
Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that
might be owed to him or her by the Company.        GENERAL     
   
    The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating
to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act,
except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 or 11 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under
federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of
contract and the law of tort. The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this
agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the
Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 or 11 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or
any of its affiliates. The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may
grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the
arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless
otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
      
    If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in
scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it   
         8   

shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect.       

16.   
     CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION          All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all
claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions. Sections 9(ii) and 11 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
   
    The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.   

18.   
     RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES          The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any
Common Stock issued in respect of vested Stock Units, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and
other holders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.       
    The Company shall not deliver shares in respect of any Stock Units unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations. Unless the Participant
pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the delivery of the Common Stock, withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the vesting
of the Stock Units (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company). The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the
right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the delivery of the Stock Units from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages).   

20.   
     NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARD          The Participant understands, acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise directly or indirectly encumbered or
disposed of prior to the payment of the Common Stock to the Participant as provided in Section 5 hereof.       

21.   
     LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO STOCK UNITS       
  Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the
Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan, the Key Employee Continuity Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and
Conditions except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon vesting of the Stock Units. Nothing in the Plan, in the Key Employee Continuity Plan, in the
  
         9   

Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or
service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason.       

22.   
     OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED          The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, as applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Stock
Units. Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the Stock Units are superseded.   
         10   

</EX-10.(B)>

<EX-10.(C)>
 4
 d865355dex10c.htm
 EX-10.(C)

EX-10.(c) 

Exhibit 10(c)        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN    
   NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION    
  FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the nonqualified
stock option (the  Option ) to purchase any part or all of the number of shares of its common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), that are covered by this Option, as specified below, at the Exercise Price per share
specified below and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) and the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and
Conditions ) adopted under such Plan, and provided to the Participant, each as amended from time to time. This Option is granted pursuant to the Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions.

Name of Participant:   
      
    FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME  
  ID: EMPLOYEE_ID    

Grant Date:   
      
    2/5/2015    

Grant Number:   
      
    OPTION_NUMBER    

Number of Shares of Common Stock covered by Option:   
      
    X,XXX    

Exercise Price Per Share:   
      
    $XXX.XX    

Expiration Date:   
      
    2/5/2025         
    This Option is not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended.      By electronically accepting this Option, the Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read,
and agrees that this Option shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions. The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required
to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Option via Company website or other electronic delivery.   
  THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE OPTION AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING
WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.   

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION    
   STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR        NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION       These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Option granted
pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which is identified as nonqualified stock option and is evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions. In
addition to these Terms and Conditions, the Option shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by this reference. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning
set forth in the Plan.        OPTION         

1.   
     TERMS OF OPTION          Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) a nonqualified stock option (the
 Option ) to purchase up to the number of shares of the Company s common stock (the  Common Stock ), set forth in the Grant Notice. The exercise price per share and the other terms and conditions of the Option are set forth
in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions (as amended from time to time), and the Plan. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any
Subsidiary.       

2.   
     NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION          The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) and will be interpreted accordingly.   

3.   
     EXERCISE OF OPTION          The Option shall not be exercisable as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice. After the Grant Date, to the extent not previously exercised, and subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these
Standard Terms and Conditions and the Plan, the Option shall be exercisable only to the extent it becomes vested, as described in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions and/or the terms of the Plan, to purchase up to that number of
shares of Common Stock as set forth in the Grant Notice, provided that (except as set forth in Section 4A., 4B. and 4C. below) the Participant remains employed with the Company and does not experience a termination of employment.   
  The exercise price (the  Exercise Price ) of the Option is set forth in the Grant Notice. The Company shall not be
obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock until the Participant shall have paid the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock. To exercise the Option (or any part thereof), the Participant shall deliver to the Company
appropriate notice specifying the number of whole shares of Common Stock the Participant wishes to purchase accompanied by valid payment in the form of (i) a check, (ii) an attestation form confirming the Participant s current
ownership of whole shares of Common Stock equal in value to the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock, and/or (iii) an authorization to sell shares equal in value to the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of
Common Stock. Notices and authorizations shall be delivered and all checks shall be payable to the Company s third party stock plan administrator, or as otherwise directed by the Company.   
  Fractional shares may not be exercised. Shares of Common Stock will be issued as soon as practicable after exercise. Notwithstanding
the above, for administrative or other reasons, including, but not limited to the Company s determination that exercisability of the Option would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws, the Company may from time to time suspend the
ability of the Participant to exercise an Option for limited periods of time, which suspensions   

shall not change the period in which the Option is exercisable, except as otherwise provided in the Plan.       

4.   
     EXPIRATION OF OPTION          Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee consistent with the terms of the Plan, the Option shall expire and cease to be exercisable as of the earlier of (a) the Expiration Date set forth in the
Grant Notice or (b) the date specified below in Sections 4A. through 4G., as applicable.       

A.  
    If the Participant s termination of employment is by reason of death or the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the
Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan, then any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable (by the Participant or the
Participant s estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as the case may be) at the date of such termination of employment or the first day on which the Participant is determined to be disabled under such long-term disability plan, as the
case may be, until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment or the first day of disability as determined under such long-term disability plan, as the case may be.      

B.  
    If the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2015, (which shall include a period of time during
which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary), and retires at or after attaining age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s
or a Subsidiary s pension plan ( 62/10 Status ), then the Option shall be exercisable in accordance with and at the times it becomes vested, as described in the Grant Notice, notwithstanding the Participant s termination of
employment with the Company or a Subsidiary, until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment.          

C.  
    If the Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a termination as a result of
disability, cause or gross misconduct) within two (2) years following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Participant may exercise the Option upon
the date of such termination of employment, and the Option shall remain exercisable until the date that is three (3) years following the date of such termination of employment (or until the date that is five (5) years following the date of
such termination of employment, in the case of a termination of employment by reason of the Participant s death or a termination of employment described in Section 4B. or Section 4D. hereof). Furthermore, the Option exercise period
shall be as described in Section 4A. in the event the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan prior to the Participant s termination of employment
described in this Section 4C.          

D.  
    If the Participant terminates employment and at the time of such termination of employment the Participant is eligible (age 65 or at least age 55 with 10
years of vesting service) to begin receiving pension payments immediately (whether or not such Participant actually begins to receive payments) from a qualified pension plan sponsored by the Company or a Subsidiary, the Participant may exercise any
portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable at the time of the Participant s termination of employment until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment.      

E.  
    In the event of a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the Option upon the Change in
Control, any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Option      
         2   

shall become fully vested and exercisable (provided that the Option may be canceled upon the consummation of the Change in Control without payment of any additional consideration if the exercise
price of the Option is less than the consideration per Share payable to shareholders of the Company in such Change in Control) and the Participant may exercise the Option not assumed or continued until the date that is five (5) years following
the date of such Change in Control. If the Participant terminates employment following such Change in Control for a reason described in 4F., any unexercised portion of the Option shall be immediately forfeited and canceled as of the date of such
termination of employment.          

F.  
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4, if the Participant s employment is terminated by the Company for deliberate, willful or gross
misconduct, the unexercised portion of the Option, whether or not then vested and exercisable, shall be immediately forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.      

G.  
    Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 hereof, the Participant may exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable at the time
of the Participant s termination of employment until the date that is three (3) months following the date of such termination of employment. Any portion of the Option that is not vested and exercisable at the time of such termination of
employment shall be forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.           PROTECTION OF
CONFIDENTIALITY        By electronically accepting the Option and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant
acknowledges and agrees to the following.       

5.   
     CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS          The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential. This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets,
business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ( Confidential Information ). The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value
from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ( Trade Secrets ).   

6 .  
     TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS       
  The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of
the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial
information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans;
succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints
regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. By electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that any unauthorized
disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct.   
         3   

7.   
     AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION       
  The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources
officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Sr. HR Officer ), or unless ordered by a court or government agency, (i) divulge, use, furnish or disclose to any subsequent employer
or any other person, whether or not a competitor of the Company, any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any
electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

8.   
     PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC          (i) The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 10
( Entity ), this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other Entity to the
detriment of the Company. The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company. Therefore, by electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms
and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another Entity he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her
intention to accept such employment or affiliation. The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without
improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.      (ii) If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are
unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution. The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin
to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 10, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper
disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets.       

9.   
     FAILURE TO COMPLY          The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 7 or 8 above, (a) the Option, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested,
will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) the Participant will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of
Common Stock acquired on exercise of the Option less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by the Participant upon exercise of the Option at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date
when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such promise that hr or she made in Section 7 or 8, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that the Participant has not complied with any
such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will
be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. The
Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to him or her under the Grant Notice absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 7 and 8
above.   
         4   

NO DIRECT COMPETITION     
  By electronically accepting the Option and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the
following.       

10 .  
     NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION       
  The Participant agrees that for a period of one year following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly
or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar
in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below. The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with
the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation),
guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business. For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation
of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way
of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates. This Section 10 is not intended to prevent the
Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business. The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Grant Notice absent his
or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 10.       

11.   
     ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF          The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 7, 8 and 10. The
Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints
is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she
are bound by such restraints. The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 7, 8 and 10, the damage to the Company would be irreparable. The Participant therefore agrees that the
Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 9 and 12, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants. The
Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 7, 8 and 10 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a
geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law.       

12.   
     VIOLATION OF PROMISES          The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 10 above, (a) the Option, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited
and cancelled and (b) the Participant will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the   
         5   

date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the Option less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by him or her upon exercise
of the Option at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver
such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company. The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by
all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company.   
    GENERAL         
    The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating
to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act,
except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under
federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of
contract and the law of tort. The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this
agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury. The foregoing not to the contrary, the
Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction.      This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or
any of its affiliates. The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator may
grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court. All expenses of the
arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless
otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award. The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise.
      
    If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in
scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect.   
         6   

15.   
     CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION          All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the
conflict of laws doctrine. The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all
claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions. Sections 8(ii) and 10 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   
   
    The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan.   

17.   
     RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES ACQUIRED PURSUANT TO OPTION EXERCISE       
  The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any
resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Common Stock issued as a result of the exercise of the Option, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy,
(b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and other optionholders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.   
   
    The Company shall not deliver shares of Common Stock in respect of the exercise of any Option unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding
obligations. Unless the Participant pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the exercise of the Option, tax withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock
issuable in connection with the exercise of the Option (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company). The Participant acknowledges
that the Company shall have the right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the exercise of the Option from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages).   

19.   
     NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTION          Except as permitted under the Plan, the Participant may not assign or transfer the Option to anyone other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and the Option shall be exercisable only by the
Participant during his or her lifetime or, following a Participant s death, by the Participant s beneficiary. The Company may cancel the Participant s Option if the Participant attempts to assign or transfer it in a manner
inconsistent with this Section 19.       

20.   
     LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO OPTION       
  Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the
Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions except as to such shares of
Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon exercise of the Option or any part of it. Nothing in the Plan, in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall
confer upon the Participant any right to continue in   
         7   

the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason.   

21.   
     OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED          The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Option. Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations
concerning the Option are superseded.   
         8   

</EX-10.(C)>

<EX-12>
 5
 d865355dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12        RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 d865355dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21        SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        

Name of Corporation   
      
  State of Incorporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company   

Delaware  

Southern Pacific Rail Corporation   

Utah  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 d865355dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by
reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement  No. 33-12513,  Registration Statement No. 33-53968, Registration Statement No. 33-49785, Registration Statement  No. 33-49849,  Registration Statement No. 333-10797, Registration Statement No. 333-88709, Registration Statement  No. 333-42768,  Registration Statement
No. 333-106707, Registration Statement No. 333-106708, Registration Statement No. 333-105714, Registration Statement No. 333-105715, Registration Statement No. 333-116003, Registration Statement No. 333-132324,
Registration Statement No. 333-155708, Registration Statement No. 333-170209, Registration Statement No. 333-170208, and Registration No. 333-188671 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-164842 and Registration
No. 333-186548 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 6, 2015, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) and the
effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies for the year ended December 31, 2014.   

Omaha, Nebraska      February 6, 2015   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 d865355dex24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24        UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION        Powers of Attorney    
  Each of the undersigned directors of Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the Company), do hereby appoint each of John J. Koraleski,
Diane K. Duren, and James J. Theisen, Jr. his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, to sign on his or her behalf the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2014, and any and all amendments
thereto, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned have executed this Power of Attorney as of February 5, 2015.       

/s/ Andrew H. Card, Jr.     Andrew H. Card, Jr.   

/s/ Michael R. McCarthy     Michael R. McCarthy    

/s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.     Erroll B. Davis, Jr.   

/s/ Michael W. McConnell     Michael W. McConnell    

/s/ David B. Dillon     David B. Dillon   

/s/ Thomas F. McLarty III     Thomas F. McLarty III    

/s/ Judith Richards Hope     Judith Richards Hope   

/s/ Steven R. Rogel     Steven R. Rogel    

/s/ John J. Koraleski     John J. Koraleski   

/s/ Jose H. Villarreal     Jose H. Villarreal    

/s/ Charles C. Krulak     Charles C. Krulak   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 9
 d865355dex31a.htm
 EX-31.(A)

EX-31.(a) 

Exhibit 31(a)          CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER       I, Lance M. Fritz, certify that:
     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 6, 2015       /s/ Lance M. Fritz       Lance M. Fritz   
  President and      Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 10
 d865355dex31b.htm
 EX-31.(B)

EX-31.(b) 

Exhibit 31(b)        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER       I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., certify that:
     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation
of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting
which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 6, 2015   
   /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.       Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President   Finance and   
  Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 11
 d865355dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32        CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    
   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the Report), I, Lance M. Fritz, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my
knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ Lance M. Fritz       Lance M. Fritz      President and      Chief Executive Officer      Union Pacific Corporation   
  February 6, 2015      A signed original of this
written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   
   CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    
   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that:       

(1)  
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      

(2)  
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.
        By:  /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.    
  Robert M. Knight, Jr.      Executive Vice President - Finance and
     Chief Financial Officer      Union Pacific Corporation
     February 6, 2015      A signed
original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 unp-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 unp-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 unp-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 unp-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 unp-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 unp-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

