<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160205_10-K_edgar_data_100885_0000100885-16-000260_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15859601</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>412099</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1371847</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5080904</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5453264</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2636598</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>116</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000100885-16-000260.hdr.sgml : 20160205
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160205132419
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000100885-16-000260
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		142
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160205
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160205

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNION PACIFIC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000100885
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING [4011]
		IRS NUMBER:				132626465
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			UT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1119

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06075
		FILM NUMBER:		161391424

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179
		BUSINESS PHONE:		402 544 5214

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1400 DOUGLAS STREET
		STREET 2:		STOP 0310
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68179

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000100885-16-000260.txt : 20160205

10-K
 1
 unp-20151231x10k.htm
 10-K

20151231 10K

UNITED STATES 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One) 

[X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the fis  cal year ended December 31, 2015 

OR 

[  ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

For the transition period from __________ to ____________ 

Commission File Number 1-6075 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

UTAH  

1  3-2626465  

(State or other jurisdiction of  

(I.R.S. Employer  

incorporation or organization)  

Identification No.)  

1400 DOUGLAS STREET, OMAHA, NEBRASKA 

(Address of principal executive offices) 

68179 

(Zip Code) 

(402) 544-5000 

(Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each Class  

Name of each exchange on which registered  

Common Stock (Par Value $2.50 per share)  

New York Stock Exchange, Inc.  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     

Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     

Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     

Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).     

Yes         No 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.     

Large accelerated filer        

Accelerated filer        

Non-accelerated filer        

Smaller reporting company        

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).     

Yes         No 

As of June 30, 2015  , the aggregate market value of the registrant s Common Stock held by non-affiliates (using the New York Stock Exchange closing price) was   $  82.7   billion. 

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant   s Common Stock as of January 2  9  , 2016   was   84  6  ,  414  ,  350  . 

Documents Incorporated by Reference     Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of S  hareholders to be held on May 12, 2016  , are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. The registrant s Proxy Statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A. 

UNIO    N PACIFIC CORPORATION 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Chairman s Letter   

3    

Directors and Senior Management   

4    

PART I   

Item 1.  

Business   

5    

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors   

10    

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments   

14    

Item 2.  

Properties   

14    

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings   

16    

Item 4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures   

18    

Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries   

19    

PART II   

Item 5.  

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

20    

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data   

22    

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

23    

Critical Accounting Policies   

43    

Cautionary Information   

48    

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

49    

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

50    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

51    

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

85    

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures   

85    

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

86    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

87    

Item 9B.  

Other Information   

88    

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance   

88    

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation   

88    

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

88    

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   

89    

Item 14.  

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

89    

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

90    

Signatures   
					 
						 Certifications  

91    
					 
						 10  1  

2 

February 5, 2016 

Fellow Shareholders: 

This past year was a difficult one in many respects, but our team did outstanding work in the face of dramatic declines in volumes and shifts in our business mix.  Although our earnings per share of $5.49 fell short of last year s record of $5.75 per share, we were able to improve our operating ratio to a record low 63.1 percent, 0.4 points better than 2014.  Our return on invested capital* of 14.3 percent also fell short of last year s all-time high of 16.2 percent. Despite these shortfalls, Union Pacific was able to increase the cash returned to shareholders in 2015.  We increased our quarterly declared dividend per share by 10 percent, with total dividends declared per share for 2015 growing 15 percent compared to the full year 2014. We also repurchased $3.5 billion in Union Pacific shares, a 7 percent increase compared to 2014. 

Union Pacific experienced a 6 percent decline in volume last year.  Carloadings declined in five of our six commodity groups.  Low natural gas prices and high coal inventory levels led to a significant reduction in our Coal volumes.  Declines in shale drilling activity due to lower energy prices drove reductions in frac sand shipments. Steel shipments also declined due to lower drilling activity as well as from the strength of the U.S. dollar.  Lower grain commodity prices, abundant worldwide inventories, and a strong U.S. Dollar negatively impacted grain shipments. International intermodal shipments declined as a result of the West Coast port work disruptions and higher than normal retail inventory levels.  Crude oil shipments declined as a result of lower crude oil prices and unfavorable spreads, while fertilizer shipments also declined year-over-year due to the uncertainty of grain commodity prices.  Increased auto production and vehicle sales drove strong growth in Automotive, our only business group which experienced volume growth in 2015.  

As volumes began to decrease from 2014 levels, we were effective in aligning our resources to meet demand, while safely and efficiently serving our customers.  Our operating metrics showed a step function improvement throughout last year.      Average system velocity, as reported to the AAR, increased 6 percent and average terminal dwell decreased 3 percent when compared to 2014. By year end, our velocity was at an all-time best for that level of demand, and we continue to drive toward further network improvement. 

2015 was a strong year for employee safety performance.  Our reportable personal injury rate of 0.87 declined 11 percent from last year, and was an all-time record low. As we move forward, we continue to utilize our safety strategy to yield record results on our way toward achieving our ultimate goal of an incident free environment. We have an unrelenting focus on risk reduction through internal programs such as Courage to Care and Total Safety Culture.  This is the cornerstone of our safety strategy so that every employee returns home safely at the end of each day. 

Our robust capital program helps ensure we have the resources and network capacity required to efficiently handle our current volumes and future growth, while improving our network fluidity and generating returns for our shareholders.  We invested $4.3 billion in 2015 strengthening the franchise.  This included $1.9 billion in replacement capital to harden our infrastructure, and to improve the safety and resiliency of our network.  In addition, we spent $1.1 billion on locomotives and other equipment, and nearly $700 million on new capacity and commercial facilities.  We also spent almost $400 million toward completing the federally mandated Positive Train Control project.  The deadline for completing PTC was extended to December 31, 2018, and we will continue to work diligently to safely complete this mandate. 

Overall economic conditions, uncertainty in the energy markets, commodity prices, and the strength of the U.S. dollar will continue to have a major impact on our business this year.  We are well-positioned to serve customers in existing markets as they rebound.  The strength and diversity of the Union Pacific franchise also will provide tremendous opportunities for new business development as both domestic and global markets evolve. 

When combined with our unrelenting focus on safety, productivity, and service, these opportunities will translate into an excellent experience for our customers and strong value for our shareholders in the years ahead.  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 

*See Item 7 of this report for reconciliations to U.S. GAAP. 

3 

DIR    ECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS  

Andrew H. Card, Jr.  

Judith Richards Hope  

Thomas F. McLarty III  

President   

Emerita Professor of Law and  

President  

Franklin Pierce University  

Distinguished Visitor from Practice   

McLarty Associates  

Board Committees: Audit,  

Georgetown University Law Center  

Board Committees: Finance,   

Compensation and Benefits  

Board Committees: Corporate   

Corporate Governance and   

Governance and Nominating,  

Nominating  

Erroll B. Davis, Jr.  

Finance   

Former Chairman,  

Steven R. Rogel  

President   CEO  

Charles C. Krulak  

Former Chairman   

Alliant Energy Corporation  

General, USMC, Ret.  

Weyerhaeuser Company  

Board Committees: Compensation  

Board Committees:   Audit, Finance  

Lead Independent Director  

and Benefits (Chair), Corporate   

Board Committees: Compensation  

Governance and Nominating  

Michael R. McCarthy  

and Benefits, Corporate Governance  

Chairman  

and Nominating (Chair)  

David B. Dillon  

McCarthy Group, LLC  

Former Chairman  

Board Committees: Corporate   

Jose H. Villarreal  

The Kroger Company  

Governance and Nominating,  

Advisor  

Board Committees: Audit,  

Finance (Chair)  

Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer     

Compensation and Benefits  

Feld, LLP  

Michael W. McConnell  

Board Committees: Audit,   

Lance M. Fritz  

General Partner and   

Compensation and Benefits  

Chairman,   President and   

Former Managing Partner  

Chief Executive Officer  

Brown Brothers Harriman   Co.  

Union Pacific Corporation and  

Board Committees: Audit (Chair),   

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

Finance   

SENIOR MANAGEMENT  

Lance M. Fritz  

Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

Todd M. Rynaski  

Chairman,   President and   

Executive Vice President Finance  

Vice President and Controller  

Chief Executive Officer  

and Chief Financial Officer  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Union Pacific Corporation and  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

Cameron A. Scott  

Scott D. Moore  

Executive Vice President    

Eric L. Butler  

Senior Vice President   

Operations  

Executive Vice President-  

Corporate Relations  

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

Marketing and Sales  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

Lynden L. Tennison  

Joseph E. O Connor, Jr.  

Senior Vice President and  

Diane K. Duren  

Vice President Labor Relations  

Chief Information Officer  

Executive Vice President and   

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Corporate Secretary  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Patrick J. O Malley  

James J. Theisen, Jr.  

Vice President Taxes and General   

Associate General Counsel and  

Mary Sanders Jones  

Tax Counsel  

Interim Chief of Legal Staff  

Vice President and Treasurer  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Michael A. Rock  

D. Lynn Kelley  

Vice President External Relations  

Senior   Vice President Supply and   

Union Pacific Corporation  

Continuous Improvement   

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

. 

4 

PA    RT I 

It    em 1.   Business 

GENERAL 

Union Pacific Railroad Company is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America's most recognized companies, Union Pacific Railroad Company links 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain.  The Railroad s diversified business mix includes Agricultural Products, Automotive, Chemicals, Coal, Industrial Products and Intermodal. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada's rail systems and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient and environmentally responsible manner. 

Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP .  

For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to  UPC ,  Corporation ,  Company ,  we ,  us , and  our  shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as  UPRR  or the  Railroad .  

Available Information     Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our website (under the  Investors  caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4, and 5, filed on behalf of our directors and certain executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We provide these reports and statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the SEC s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are available on our website. From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our Company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. 

We have included the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) certifications regarding our public disclosure required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31(a) and (b) to this report.  

References to our website address in this report, including references in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report. 

OPERATIONS 

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and operations, including revenue and financial information and data and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item 3; Selected Financial Data, Item 6; Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7; and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding revenues, statements of income, and total assets).  

5 

Operations     UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 32,084 route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the Western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. Our freight traffic consists of bulk,   

2015 Freight Revenue  

manifest, and premium business. Bulk traffic primarily consists of coal, grain, soda ash, ethanol, rock and crude oil shipped in unit trains   trains transporting a single commodity from one source to one destination. Manifest traffic includes individual carload or less than train-load business involving commodities such as lumber, steel, paper, food and chemicals. The transportation of finished vehicles, auto parts, intermodal containers and truck trailers are included as part of our premium business. In 2015, we generated freight revenues totaling $20.4 billion from the following six commodity groups: 

Agricultural Products     Transportation of grains, commodities produced from these grains, and food and beverage products generated 17% of the Railroad s 2015 freight revenue. We access most major grain markets, linking the Midwest and Western U.S. producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports, as well as Mexico. We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders and ethanol producers in the Midwest, West, South and Rocky Mountain states. Unit trains, which transport a single commodity between producers and export terminals or domestic markets, represent approximately 40% of our agricultural shipments. 

Automotive     We are the largest automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River and operate or access over 40 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad s extensive franchise serves five vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports, Mexico gateways and the Gulf of Mexico to accommodate both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, UPRR provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S. and Canada. The automotive group generated 11% of Union Pacific s freight revenue in 2015.  

Chemicals     Transporting chemicals generated 17% of our freight revenue in 2015. The Railroad s unique franchise serves the chemical producing areas along the Gulf Coast, where   roughly 60% of the   Company s chemical business originates, terminates or travels. Our chemical franchise also accesses chemical producers in the Rocky Mountains and on the West Coast. The Company s chemical shipments include six categories:  industrial chemicals, plastics, fertilizer, petroleum and liquid petroleum gases, crude oil and soda ash. Currently, these products move primarily to and from the Gulf Coast region. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, the western U.S. and Canada (through interline access) for delivery to major agricultural users in the Midwest, western U.S., as well as abroad. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad.  

Coal     Shipments of coal and petroleum coke accounted for 16% of our freight revenue in 2015. The Railroad s network supports the transportation of coal and petroleum coke to independent and regulated power companies and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports, UPRR s reach extends to eastern U.S. utilities, Mexico, Europe and Asia. Water terminals allow the Railroad to move western U.S. coal east via the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, as well as the Great Lakes. Export coal moves through West Coast ports to Asia and through the Mississippi River and Houston to Europe.  Coal traffic originating in the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) area of Wyoming is the largest segment of the Railroad s coal business. 

Industrial Products     Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and destination points throughout North America. The Industrial Products group consists of several categories, including construction products, minerals, consumer goods, metals, lumber, paper, and other miscellaneous products.  In 2015, this group generated 19% of our total freight revenue. Commercial, residential and governmental infrastructure investments drive shipments of steel,  

6 

aggregates (cement components), cement and wood products.  Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, frac sand, stone and drilling fluid commodities. Industrial and light manufacturing plants receive steel, nonferrous materials, minerals and other raw materials. Paper and packaging commodities, as well as appliances, move to major metropolitan areas for consumers. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest and western Canada and move throughout the U.S. for use in new home construction and repair and remodeling. 

Intermodal     Our Intermodal business includes two segments: international and domestic. International business consists of import and export container traffic that mainly passes through West Coast ports served by UPRR s extensive terminal network. Domestic business includes container and trailer traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies), as well as truckload carriers. Less-than-truckload and package carriers with time-sensitive business requirements are also an important part of domestic shipments. Together, our international and domestic Intermodal business generated 20% of our 2015 freight revenue. 

Seasonality     Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity and the demand cycle for the commodity (such as certain agricultural and food products that have specific growing and harvesting seasons). The peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably each year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies and the strength of harvests and market prices for agricultural products. In response to an annual request from the Surface Transportation Board (STB) to all of the Class I railroads operating in the U.S., we submit a publicly available letter during the third quarter detailing our plans for handling traffic during the third and fourth quarters each year and provide other information requested by the STB. 

Working Capital     At December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had a modest working capital surplus, which provides enhanced liquidity. In addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities. 

Competition     We are subject to competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ship and barge operators, and pipelines. Our main railroad competitor is Burlington Northern Santa Fe LLC. Its primary subsidiary, BNSF Railway Company (BNSF), operates parallel routes in many of our main traffic corridors. In addition, we operate in corridors served by other railroads and motor carriers. Motor carrier competition exists for five of our six commodity groups (excluding most coal shipments). Because of the proximity of our routes to major inland and Gulf Coast waterways, barges can be particularly competitive, especially for grain and bulk commodities in certain areas where we operate. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times, quality and reliability of service from motor carriers and other railroads. Motor carriers in particular can have an advantage over railroads with respect to transit times and timeliness of service.  However, railroads are much more fuel-efficient than trucks, which reduces the impact of transporting goods on the environment and public infrastructure, and we have been making efforts to convert certain truck traffic to rail.  Additionally, we must build or acquire and maintain our rail system; trucks and barges are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any of the following could also affect the competitiveness of our transportation services for some or all of our commodities: (i) improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the costs of these alternative modes of transportation, (ii) legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the size or weight limitations applied to motor carriers, or (iii) legislation or regulatory changes that impose operating restrictions on railroads or that adversely affect the profitability of some or all railroad traffic.   Finally, many movements face product or geographic competition where our customers can use different products (e.g. natural gas instead of coal, sorghum instead of corn) or commodities from different locations (e.g. grain from states or countries that we do not serve  ,   crude oil from different regions). Sourcing different commodities or different locations allows shippers to substitute different carriers and such competition may reduce our volume or constrain prices.     For more information regarding risks we face from competition, see the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. 

Key Suppliers     We depend on two key domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives. Due to the capital intensive nature of the locomotive manufacturing business and sophistication of this equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers of entry into this industry. Therefore, if one of these domestic suppliers discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience a significant cost increase and risk reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary to our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical for  

7 

maintenance, replacement, improvement, and expansion of our network and facilities. Rail manufacturing also has high barriers of entry, and, if one of those suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including insolvency or bankruptcy, we could experience cost increases and difficulty obtaining rail. 

Employees        Approximately 85% of our 47,457 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions.   On January 1, 2015, current labor agreements became subject to modification and we began the current round of negotiations with the unions. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention) are exhausted.  Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time and we rarely experience work stoppages while negotiations are pending. 

Railroad Security     Our security efforts consist of a wide variety of measures including employee training, engagement with our customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies.  While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives.   

UPRR Security Measures     We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise.  The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures.  We employ our own police force, consisting of more than 250 commissioned and highly-trained officers. Our employees also undergo recurrent security and preparedness training, as well as federally-mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations. 

We operate an emergency response management center 24 hours a day.  The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, law enforcement and other government officials.  In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize risk to communities and our operations.  We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law.  We also design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers.  Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Agency regulations, we deployed information systems and instructed employees in tracking and documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Materials with customers and interchange partners. 

We also have established a number of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on the Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assesses cyber security risks and implements mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption of our operations due to a cyber threat or attack directed at us. 

Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies     We work closely on physical and cyber security initiatives with government agencies, including the DOT and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) as well as local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders.  In conjunction with the Association of American Railroads (AAR), we sponsor Ask Rail, a mobile application which provides first responders with secure links to electronic information, including commodity and emergency response information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations.  We also participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism.   

We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command, which monitor shipments entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports.  We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP s Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain. 

8 

Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations        Through TransCAER (Transportation Community Awareness and Emergency Response) we work with the AAR, the American Chemistry Council, the American Petroleum Institute, and other chemical trade groups to provide communities with preparedness tools, including the training of emergency responders.  In cooperation with the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials. 

GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION 

Governmental Regulation       Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all businesses.  (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.) 

The operations of the Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the STB.  The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. In 2015, the STB continued its efforts to explore whether to expand rail regulation. The STB requested parties to discuss the STB s methodology for determining railroad revenue adequacy and the possible use of a revenue adequacy constraint in regulating railroad rates. The STB conducted a hearing on expanding and easing procedures for grain rate complaints. 

The Surface Transportation Board Reauthorization Act of 2015 became law on December 18, 2015. The legislation increased the number of STB board members from three to five, requires the STB to post quarterly reports on rate reasonableness cases and maintain a database on service complaints, and grants the STB authority to initiate investigations, among other things. 

The operations of the Railroad also are subject to the regulations of the FRA and other federal and state agencies.  On January 12, 2010, the FRA issued initial rules governing installation of Positive Train Control (PTC) by the end of 2015. The final regulation was issued on August 8, 2014. Although still under further development, PTC is a collision avoidance technology intended to override engineer controlled locomotives and stop train-to-train and overspeed accidents, misaligned switch derailments, and unauthorized entry to work zones. Through 2015, we have invested approximately $2.0 billion in the ongoing development of PTC. 

Following the issuance of the initial rules, the FRA acknowledged that projected costs will exceed projected benefits by a ratio of at least 22 to one, and we estimate that our final costs will be higher than those assumed by the FRA. On October 29, 2015, Congress extended the December 31, 2015 PTC implementation deadline until December 31, 2018.  The PTC implementation deadline may be extended to December 31, 2020, provided certain other criteria are satisfied. We are planning to submit our required PTC safety plan to the FRA in the first half of 2016. 

On May 1, 2015, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) issued final rules governing the transportation of flammable liquids.  The final rule included provisions for improved tank car standards, braking system requirements, community notification, and operating restrictions for certain trains carrying flammable liquids.  Subsequently, Congress enacted the Fixing America s Surface Transportation Act, which requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct an independent study on the rule s proposed braking system requirements. Pending the outcome of the study, the braking system requirement may be eliminated or revised.  We will participate in and monitor the progress of the GAO study. 

DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, PHMSA and DHS, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of safety, movement of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, emissions requirements, and equipment standards. Additionally, various state and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in ways not preempted by federal law  . 

Environmental Regulation     We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental statutes and regulations pertaining to public health and the environment. The statutes and regulations are administered and monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and by various state environmental agencies. The primary laws affecting our operations are the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, regulating the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, regulating the cleanup of  

9 

contaminated properties; the Clean Air Act, regulating air emissions; and the Clean Water Act, regulating waste water discharges.  

Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

I    tem 1A.   Risk Factors 

The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8.  

We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity     If there is significant demand for our services that exceeds the designed capacity of our network, we may experience network difficulties, including congestion and reduced velocity, that could compromise the level of service we provide to our customers. This level of demand may also compound the impact of weather and weather-related events on our operations and velocity. Although we continue to improve our transportation plan, add capacity, improve operations at our yards and other facilities, and improve our ability to address surges in demand for any reason with adequate resources, we cannot be sure that these measures will fully or adequately address any service shortcomings resulting from demand exceeding our planned capacity.  We may experience other operational or service difficulties related to network capacity, dramatic and unplanned fluctuations in our customers  demand for rail service with respect to one or more commodities or operating regions, or other events that could negatively impact our operational efficiency, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  In the event that we experience significant reductions in demand for rail services with respect to one or more commodities or changes in consumer preferences that affect the businesses of our customers, we may experience increased costs associated with resizing our operations, including higher unit operating costs and costs for the storage of locomotives, rail cars, and other equipment; work-force adjustments; and other related activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

We Transport Hazardous Materials     We transport certain hazardous materials and other materials, including crude oil, ethanol, and toxic inhalation hazard (TIH) materials, such as chlorine, that pose certain risks in the event of a release or combustion. Additionally, U.S. laws impose common carrier obligations on railroads that require us to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. A rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our facilities, or at the facilities of our customers involving the release or combustion of hazardous materials could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of our insurance coverage for these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

We Are Subject to Significant Governmental Regulation     We are subject to governmental regulation by a significant number of federal, state, and local authorities covering a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental, economic (as discussed below), and other matters.  Many laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain various licenses, permits, and other authorizations, and we cannot guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on us. Governments or regulators may change the legislative or regulatory frameworks within which we operate without providing us any recourse to address any adverse effects on our business, including, without limitation, regulatory determinations or rules regarding dispute resolution, business relationships with other railroads, calculation of our cost of capital or other inputs relevant to computing our revenue adequacy, the prices we charge, and costs and expenses. Significant legislative activity in Congress or regulatory activity by the STB could expand regulation of railroad operations and prices for rail services, which could reduce capital spending on our rail network, facilities and equipment and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and   liquidity. As part of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008, rail carriers   were to   implement PTC by the end of   2015 (the Rail Safety Improvement Act).  The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015 amended the Rail Safety Improvement Act to require implementation of PTC by the end of 2018,   which   deadline may be extended to December 31, 2020, provided certain other criteria are satisfied.  This implementation   could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make other capital investments. Additionally, one or more consolidations of Class I railroads could also lead to increased regulation of the rail industry. 

10 

We May Be Affected by General Economic Conditions     Prolonged severe adverse domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets may affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity and our results of operations and financial condition.  

We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers     We face competition from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. We must build or acquire and maintain our rail system, while trucks, barges and maritime operators are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the burden of the size or weight limitations currently applicable to motor carriers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate. 

We Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations     We rely on information technology in all aspects of our business. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or if we are unable to develop or implement new technology such as PTC or the latest version of our transportation control systems, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, if a cyber attack or other event causes significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could suffer a significant service interruption, safety failure, security breach, or other operational difficulties, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

We May Be Subject to Various Claims and Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures     As a railroad with operations in densely populated urban areas and other cities and a vast rail network, we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability that exceed our insurance coverage for such risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  

We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Laws and Regulations     Due to the nature of the railroad business, our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air; discharges to waters; handling, storage, transportation, disposal of waste and other materials; and hazardous material or petroleum releases. We generate and transport hazardous and non-hazardous waste in our operations, and we did so in our former operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned or operated properties, leased properties, and properties owned by third parties, as well as to properties we currently own. Environmental liabilities have arisen and may also arise from claims asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. We have been and may be subject to allegations or findings that we have violated, or are strictly liable under, these laws or regulations. We currently have certain obligations at existing sites for investigation, remediation and monitoring, and we likely will have obligations at other sites in the future.  Liabilities for these obligations affect our estimate based on our experience and, as necessary, the advice and assistance of our consultants.  However, actual costs may vary from our estimates due to any or all of several factors, including changes to environmental laws or interpretations of such laws, technological changes affecting investigations and remediation, the participation and financial viability of other parties responsible for any such liability and the corrective action or change to corrective actions required to remediate any existing or future sites. We could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or Regulatory Responses to Climate Change     Climate change, including the impact of global warming, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  Restrictions, caps, taxes, or other controls on emissions of greenhouse gasses, including diesel exhaust, could significantly increase our operating costs.  Restrictions on emissions could also affect our customers that (a) use commodities that we carry to produce energy, (b) use significant amounts of energy in producing or delivering the commodities we  

11 

carry, or (c) manufacture or produce goods that consume significant amounts of energy or burn fossil fuels, including chemical producers, farmers and food producers, and automakers and other manufacturers.  Significant cost increases, government regulation, or changes of consumer preferences for goods or services relating to alternative sources of energy or emissions reductions could materially affect the markets for the commodities we carry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  Government incentives encouraging the use of alternative sources of energy could also affect certain of our customers and the markets for certain of the commodities we carry in an unpredictable manner that could alter our traffic patterns, including, for example, the impacts of ethanol incentives on farming and ethanol producers. Finally, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change.  Any of these factors, individually or in operation with one or more of the other factors, or other unforeseen impacts of climate change could reduce the amount of traffic we handle and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

Severe Weather Could Result in Significant Business Interruptions and Expenditures     As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides, extreme temperatures, and significant precipitation. Line outages and other interruptions caused by these conditions can adversely affect our entire rail network and can adversely affect revenue, costs, and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations     The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The majority of our employees belong to labor unions and are subject to these agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  Labor disputes, work stoppages, slowdowns or lockouts at loading/unloading facilities, ports or other transport access points could compromise our service reliability and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.    Labor disputes, work stoppages, slowdowns or lockouts by employees of our customers or our suppliers could compromise our service reliability and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

The Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations     Changes in demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service. Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  

We May Be Affected By Fluctuating Fuel Prices     Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our transportation expenses. Diesel fuel prices can be subject to dramatic fluctuations, and significant price increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Although we currently are able to recover a significant amount of our fuel expenses from our customers through revenue from fuel surcharges, we cannot be certain that we will always be able to mitigate rising or elevated fuel costs through our fuel surcharges. Additionally, future market conditions or legislative or regulatory activities could adversely affect our ability to apply fuel surcharges or adequately recover increased fuel costs through fuel surcharges. As fuel prices fluctuate, our fuel surcharge programs trail such fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months, and may be a significant source of quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year volatility, particularly in periods of rapidly changing prices. International, political, and economic factors, events and conditions affect the volatility of fuel prices and supplies. Weather can also affect fuel supplies and limit domestic refining capacity. A severe shortage of, or disruption to, domestic fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  Alternatively, lower fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could increase demand for various consumer products we transport. However, lower fuel prices could have a negative impact on other commodities we  

12 

transport, such as coal, frac sand and crude oil shipments, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

We Utilize Capital Markets     Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements.  We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper from time-to-time, and we pledge certain of our receivables.  Significant instability or disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A significant deterioration of our financial condition could result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment grade, which could restrict, or at certain credit levels below investment grade may prohibit us, from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility. This may also limit our access to external sources of capital and significantly increase the costs of short and long-term debt financing. 

A Significant Portion of Our Revenue Involves Transportation of Commodities to and from International Markets     Although revenues from our operations are attributable to transportation services provided in the U.S., a significant portion of our revenues involves the transportation of commodities to and from international markets, including Mexico and Southeast Asia, by various carriers and, at times, various modes of transportation. Significant and sustained interruptions of trade with Mexico or countries in Southeast Asia, including China, could adversely affect customers and other entities that, directly or indirectly, purchase or rely on rail transportation services in the U.S. as part of their operations, and any such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Any one or more of the following could cause a significant and sustained interruption of trade with Mexico or countries in Southeast Asia: (a) a deterioration of security for international trade and businesses; (b) the adverse impact of new laws, rules and regulations or the interpretation of laws, rules and regulations by government entities, courts or regulatory bodies, including taxing authorities, that affect our customers doing business in foreign countries; (c) any significant adverse economic developments, such as extended periods of high inflation, material disruptions in the banking sector or in the capital markets of these foreign countries, and significant changes in the valuation of the currencies of these foreign countries that could materially affect the cost or value of imports or exports; (d) shifts in patterns of international trade that adversely affect import and export markets; and (e) a material reduction in foreign direct investment in these countries. 

We Are Subject to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal Developments Involving Taxes     Taxes are a significant part of our expenses.  We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail     Due to the capital intensive nature and sophistication of locomotive equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry.  Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience significant cost increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary for our operations.  Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers (one domestic and one international) that meet our specifications.  Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance, and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing facilities.  This industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects. 

We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of War     Our rail lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be available to us in the future. 

13 

It    em 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

It    em 2.   Properties 

We employ a variety of assets in the management and operation of our rail business. Our rail network covers 23 states in the western two-thirds of the U.S. 

TRACK 

Our rail network includes 32,084 route miles.  We own 26,064 miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. The following table describes track miles at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

HEADQUARTERS BUILDING 

We own our headquarters building in Omaha, Nebraska. The facility has 1.2 million square feet of space for approximately 4,000 employees. 

14 

HARRIMAN DISPATCHING CENTER 

The Harriman Dispatching Center (HDC), located in Omaha, Nebraska, is our primary dispatching facility. It is linked to regional dispatching and locomotive management facilities at various locations along our network. HDC employees coordinate moves of locomotives and trains, manage traffic and train crews on our network, and coordinate interchanges with other railroads. Approximately 900 employees currently work on-site in the facility. In the event of a disruption of operations at HDC due to a cyber attack, flooding or severe weather or other event, we maintain the capability to conduct critical operations at back-up facilities in different locations. 

RAIL FACILITIES 

In addition to our track structure, we operate numerous facilities, including terminals for intermodal and other freight; rail yards for building trains (classification yards), switching, storage-in-transit (the temporary storage of customer goods in rail cars prior to shipment) and other activities; offices to administer and manage our operations; dispatching centers to direct traffic on our rail network; crew quarters to house train crews along our network; and shops and other facilities for fueling, maintenance, and repair of locomotives and repair and maintenance of rail cars and other equipment.  The following table includes the major yards and terminals on our system: 

Major Classification Yards  

Major Intermodal Terminals  

North Platte, Nebraska   

ICTF (Los Angeles), California  

North Little Rock, Arkansas   

Joliet (Global 4), Illinois  

Englewood (Houston), Texas   

East Los Angeles, California  

Proviso (Chicago), Illinois   

DIT (Dallas), Texas  

Fort Worth, Texas   

Global I (Chicago), Illinois  

Livonia, Louisiana   

Marion (Memphis), Tennessee  

Roseville, California   

Global II (Chicago), Illinois  

Pine Bluff, Arkansas  

Mesquite, Texas  

West Colton, California  

City of Industry, California  

Neff (Kansas City), Missouri   

Lathrop, California  

RAIL EQUIPMENT 

Our equipment includes owned and leased locomotives and rail cars; heavy maintenance equipment and machinery; other equipment and tools in our shops, offices, and facilities; and vehicles for maintenance, transportation of crews, and other activities. As of December 31, 2015, we owned or leased the following units of equipment: 

15 

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES 

Our rail network requires significant annual capital investments for replacement, improvement, and expansion. These investments enhance safety, support the transportation needs of our customers, and improve our operational efficiency. Additionally, we add new locomotives and freight cars to our fleet to replace older, less efficient equipment, to support growth and customer demand, and to reduce our impact on the environment through the acquisition of more fuel-efficient and low-emission locomotives. 

2015   Capital Program     During 2015, our capital program   totaled $4.3 billion.   (See the cash capital expenditures table in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources, Item 7.) 

2016   Capital Plan     In 2016, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $3.75 billion, which will include expenditures for PTC of approximately $375 million and may include non-cash investments.  We may revise our 2016 capital plan if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments.  (See discussion of our 2016 capital plan in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   2016 Outlook, Item 7.) 

OTHER 

Equipment Encumbrances     Equipment with a carrying value of approximately $2.6 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively served as collateral for capital leases and other types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire or refinance such railroad equipment.  

As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the mortgage bonds was approximately $6.0 billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds. 

Environmental Matters     Certain of our properties are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.  (See discussion of environmental issues in Business   Governmental and Environmental Regulation, Item 1, and Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.) 

It    em 3.   Legal Proceedings 

From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and litigation that occur in connection with our business. We routinely assess our liabilities and contingencies in connection with these matters based upon the latest available information and, when necessary, we seek input from our third-party advisors when making these assessments. Consistent with SEC rules and requirements, we describe below material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business), material proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities, other proceedings arising under federal, state, or local environmental laws and regulations (including governmental proceedings involving potential fines, penalties, or other monetary sanctions in excess of $100,000), and such other pending matters that we may determine to be appropriate.  

16 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

As previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, the Illinois Attorney General's Office notified UPRR on January 14, 2013, that it will seek a penalty against the Railroad for environmental conditions caused by its predecessor at a former locomotive fueling facility in South Pekin, Illinois. This former CNW facility discontinued fueling operations in the early 1980s. Subsequent environmental investigation revealed evidence of fuel releases to soil and groundwater. In January 2007, the State rejected UPRR's proposed compliance commitment agreement and responded with a notice of intent to pursue legal action. UPRR continued to perform remedial investigations under the supervision of the Illinois EPA. In June 2012, the Illinois EPA approved UPRR's proposed remedial action plan for the site, consisting of no further action and monitoring for a period of ten years. Subsequently, the State notified UPRR that it would seek to recover a civil penalty, and during early negotiations, it offered to settle its claim for $240,000.  UPRR rejected this offer.  The State sued UPRR on October 26, 2013, in the Circuit Court for the Tenth Judicial Circuit, Tazewell County, Illinois. Through continued settlement negotiations, the parties reached a  n   agreement to settle this matter in exchange for a payment by UPRR of $100,000.    A final agreement was signed by the parties and approved by the Circuit Court and UPRR completed payment of $100,000. 

As previously reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, a punctured tank car resulted in an accidental release of sulfuric acid in a rail yard in Herington, Kansas in January, 2012. The acid was released on the ground and entered a creek that runs adjacent to the yard. Environmental remediation at the site is complete. Despite negotiations with the federal government, the Assistant U.S. Attorney (District of Kansas) filed a criminal charge against the Railroad on March 30, 2015, in the U.S. District Court for Kansas. The action alleges a misdemeanor charge for negligent violation of the Clea  n Water Act. The penalty range wa  s $2,500 to $200,000. In addition, the federal government   may   debar the facility if UPRR   were   convicted. A debarment w  ould   prevent Herington Yard from participating in new government contract work.  On January 12, 2016, the federal judge in the U.S. District Court for Kansas dismissed the charge against the Railroad.  The EPA is considering whether to appeal the case or pursue civil penalties.  We cannot predict the ultimate impact of this proceeding at this time, but the proposed penalty could exceed $100,000. 

We receive notices from the EPA and state environmental agencies alleging that we are or may be liable under federal or state environmental laws for remediation costs at various sites throughout the U.S., including sites on the Superfund National Priorities List or state superfund lists. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of these proceedings and suits because of the number of potentially responsible parties involved, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs.  

Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental, Item 7.  

OTHER MATTERS 

Antitrust Litigation   -   As we reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, 20 rail shippers (many of whom are represented by the same law firms) filed virtually identical  

antitrust lawsuits in various federal district courts against us and four other Class I railroads in the U.S. Currently, UPRR and three other Class I railroads are the named defendants in the lawsuit. The original plaintiff filed the first of these claims in the U.S. District Court in New Jersey on May 14, 2007. The number of complaints reached a total of 30. These suits allege that the named railroads engaged in price-fixing by establishing common fuel surcharges for certain rail traffic.  

In addition to suits filed by direct purchasers of rail transportation services, a few of the suits involved plaintiffs alleging that they are or were indirect purchasers of rail transportation and sought to represent a purported class of indirect purchasers of rail transportation services that paid fuel surcharges. These complaints added allegations under state antitrust and consumer protection laws. On November 6, 2007, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ordered that all of the rail fuel surcharge cases be transferred to Judge Paul Friedman of the U.S. District Court in the District of Columbia for coordinated or consolidated pretrial proceedings. Following numerous hearings and rulings, Judge Friedman dismissed the complaints of the indirect purchasers, which the indirect purchasers appealed. On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed Judge Friedman s ruling dismissing the indirect purchasers  claims based on various state laws. 

17 

On June 21, 2012, Judge Friedman issued a decision that certified a class of plaintiffs with eight named plaintiff representatives. The decision included in the class all shippers that paid a rate-based fuel surcharge to any one of the defendant railroads for rate-unregulated rail transportation from July 1, 2003, through December 31, 2008. This was a procedural ruling, which did not affirm any of the claims asserted by the plaintiffs and does not address the ability of the railroad defendants to disprove the allegations made by the plaintiffs. On July 5, 2012, the defendant railroads filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia requesting that the court review the class certification ruling. On August 28, 2012, a panel of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia referred the petition to a merits panel of the court to address the issues in the petition and to address whether the district court properly granted class certification. The Circuit Court heard oral arguments on May 3, 2013. On August 9, 2013, the Circuit Court vacated the class certification decision and remanded the case to the district court to reconsider the class certification decision in light of a recent Supreme Court case and incomplete consideration of errors in the expert report of the plaintiffs. On October 31, 2013, Judge Friedman approved a schedule agreed to by all parties for consideration of the class certification issue on remand.  

On October 2, 2014, the plaintiffs informed Judge Friedman that their economic expert had a previously undisclosed conflict of interest. Judge Friedman ruled on November 26, 2014, that the plaintiffs had until April 1, 2015, to file a supplemental expert report to support their motion for class certification. The plaintiffs filed their supplemental expert report on April 1, 2015. Judge Friedman issued a scheduling order on June 19, 2015, scheduling a class certification hearing for November 2, 2015. Judge Friedman then vacated the hearing date in an Order on September 28, 2015 because of the potential impact resulting from the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court case,   Tyson Foods v. Bouaphakeo  ,     related to class action certification and damages, which w  as   heard on November 10, 2015. The Order requires the parties to file a joint schedule and briefing statement within fourteen days after the U.S. Supreme Court decision in the   Tyson Foods   matter  , which   is expected to be issued during the first half of 2016. 

As we reported in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 10, 2011, the Railroad received a complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on June 7, 2011, by Oxbow Carbon   Minerals LLC and related entities (Oxbow). The complaint named the Railroad and one other U.S. Class I Railroad as defendants and alleged that the named railroads engaged in price-fixing and monopolistic practices in connection with fuel surcharge programs and pricing of shipments of certain commodities, including coal and petroleum coke. The complaint sought injunctive relief and payment of damages of over $30 million, and other unspecified damages, including treble damages. Some of the allegations in the complaint were addressed in the existing fuel surcharge litigation referenced above. The complaint also included additional unrelated allegations regarding alleged limitations on competition for shipments of Oxbow s commodities. Judge Friedman, who presides over the fuel surcharge matter described above, also presides over this matter. On February 26, 2013, Judge Friedman granted the defendants  motion to dismiss Oxbow s complaint for failure to state properly a claim under the antitrust laws. However, the dismissal was without prejudice to refile the complaint. Judge Friedman approved a schedule that allowed Oxbow to file a revised complaint, which Oxbow filed on May 1, 2013. The amended complaint alleges that UPRR and one other Class I railroad violated Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act and that UPRR also breached a tolling agreement between Oxbow and UPRR. Oxbow claims that it paid more than $50 million in wrongfully imposed fuel surcharges. UPRR and the other railroad filed separate motions to dismiss the Oxbow revised complaint on July 1, 2013. Judge Friedman heard oral arguments on the motions to dismiss filed by UPRR and the other railroad on January 8, 2015. Judge Friedman denied the motions to dismiss on February 24, 2015. This was a procedural ruling, which did not affirm any of the claims asserted by Oxbow and does not affect the ability of the railroad defendants to disprove the allegations made by Oxbow. UPRR filed its answer to Oxbow s complaint on March 24, 2015, and the parties have commenced discovery.  

We deny the allegations that our fuel surcharge programs violate the antitrust laws or any other laws. We believe that these lawsuits are without merit, and we will vigorously defend our actions. Therefore, we currently believe that these matters will not have a material adverse effect on any of our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. 

It    em 4.   Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not applicable.  

18 

Exec    utive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Exe  cutive Officers of Subsidiaries 

The Board of Directors typically elects and designates our executive officers on an annual basis at the board meeting held in conjunction with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and they hold office until their successors are elected. Executive officers also may be elected and designated throughout the year, as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. There are no family relationships among the officers, nor is there any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected. The following table sets forth certain information current as of February 5, 2016, relating to the executive officers. 

Business  

Experience During  

Name  

Position  

Age  

Past Five Years  

Lance M. Fritz  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad  

53  

[1]  

Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer of UPC and the Railroad  

58  

Current Position  

Eric L. Butler  

Executive Vice President   Marketing and Sales of the Railroad  

55  

[2]  

Diane K. Duren  

Executive Vice President and Corporate Secretary of UPC and the Railroad  

56  

[3]  

Todd M. Rynaski  

Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Railroad  

45  

[4]  

Cameron A. Scott  

Executive Vice President   Operations of the Railroad  

53  

[5]  

[1] 

On July 30, 2015, Mr. Fritz was named Chairman of the Board of UPC and the Railroad effective October 1, 2015.   Mr. Fritz was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of UPC and the Railroad effective February 5, 2015. Previously, Mr. Fritz was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Railroad effective February 6, 2014, Executive Vice Preside  nt   Operations of the Railroad   effective September 1, 2010, and Vice Presid  ent   Operations of the Railroad   effective January 1, 2010.     

[2] 

Mr. Butler was elected to his current position effective March 15, 2012. He previously was Vice President and General Manager - Industrial Products effective April 14, 2005.     

[3] 

Ms. Duren was elected Executive Vice President of UPC and the Railroad effective October 1, 2012. In addition, Ms. Duren was elected Corporate Secretary effective March 1, 2013. She previously was Vice President and General Manager - Chemicals effective August 1, 2006.      

[4] 

Mr. Rynaski was elected Vice President and Controller of UPC and Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of the Railroad effective September 1, 2015. He previously was Assistant Vice   President     Accounting of the Railroad effective January 1, 2014, and Assistant Vice   President     Financial Reporting and Analysis effective April 1, 2011, and General Director   Information Technologies effective September 1, 2008.     

[5] 

Mr. Scott was elected to his current position effective February 6, 2014. He previously was Vice President Network Planning and Operations   effective   June 30, 2012, Regional Vice President   Western Region effective April 1, 2012, and Assistant Vice President Operations   Western Region effective February 16, 2009.     

19 

PA    RT II 

Ite    m 5.   Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol  UNP .  The following table presents the dividends declared and the high and low prices of our common stock for each of the indicated quarters. All amounts are retroactively adjusted to reflect the June 6, 2014 stock split. 

At January 29, 2016, there were   846,414,350   shares of common stock outstanding and   32,209    c  ommon shareholders of record. On that date, the closing price of the common stock on the NYSE was $  72.00  .   We paid dividends to our common shareholders during each of the past 116 years. We declared dividends totaling $1,906 million in 2015 and $1,714 million in 2014. We are subject to certain restrictions regarding retained earnings with respect to the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends decreased   to $13.6   billion at December 31, 2015, from $15.4 billion at December 31, 2014.  (See discussion of this restriction in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources, Item 7.)  We do not believe the restriction on retained earnings will affect our ability to pay dividends, and we currently expect to pay dividends in 2016. 

Comparison Over One- and Three-Year Periods     The following table presents the cumulative total shareholder returns, assuming reinvestment of dividends, over one- and three-year periods for the Corporation (UNP), a peer group index (comprised of CSX Corporation and Norfolk Southern Corporation), the Dow Jones Transportation Index (DJ Trans), and the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index (S P 500). 

20 

Five-Year Performance Comparison     The   following graph provides an indicator of cumulative total shareholder returns for the Corporation as compared to the peer group index (described above), the DJ Trans, and the S P 500. The graph assumes that $100 was invested in the common stock of Union Pacific Corporation and each index on December 31, 20  10   and that all dividends were reinvested. The information below is historical in nature and is not necessarily indicative of future performance. 

Purchases of Equity Securities     During 201  5  , we   repurchased 36,921,641   shares of our common s  tock at an average price of $99.16  . The following table presents common stock repurchases during each month for the fourth quarter of 201  5  : 

[a] 

Total number of shares purchased during the q  uarter includes approximately 32,086   shares delivered or attested to UPC by employees to pay stock option exercise prices, satisfy excess tax withholding obligations for stock option exercises or vesting of retention units, and pay withholding obligations for vesting of retention shares.     

[b] 

Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 120 million shares of our common stock by December 31, 2017. These repurchases may be made on the open market or through other transactions. Our management has sole discretion with respect to determining the timing and amount of these transactions.     

21 

It    em 6.   Selected Financial Data 

The following table presents as of, and for the years ended, December 31, our selected financial data for each of the last five years. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and with the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. The information below is historical in nature and is not necessarily indicative of future financial condition or results of operations. 

[a] 

Includes fuel surcharge revenue of   $  1.3 billion,   $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion, $2.6 billion,   and $2.2 billion   for   2015,   2014, 2013, 2012,   and 2011,   respectively, which partially offsets increased operating expenses for fuel. (See further discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Operating Revenues, Item 7.)     

[b] 

Earnings per share and dividends declared per share are retroactively adjusted to reflect the June 6, 2014 stock split.     

[c] 

Total assets, long-term obligations, debt due after one year  , and debt to capital   are retroactively adjusted to reflect the adoption of accounting standard updates on deferred debt issuance costs and deferred taxes.   (See further discussion in Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Accounting Pronouncements, Item 8.)     

[d] 

Long-term obligations is determined as follows: total liabilities less current liabilities.     

[e] 

Operating ratio is defined as operating expenses divided by operating revenues.     

[f] 

Debt to capital is determined as follows: total debt divided by total debt plus common shareholders' equity.     

[g] 

Return on average common shareholders' equity is determined as follows: Net income divided by average common shareholders' equity.     

22 

It    em 7.   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7.  

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network.  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

2015 Results 

Safety     During 2015, we continued   our   focus on safety to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our customers and the public  . We achieved our best ever reportable personal injury incidents per 200,000 employee-hours of 0.87. In addition, we finished 2015 with a   3  % improvement in our crossing incident rate per million train miles compared to the prior year. These results demonstrate our employees  dedication to our safety initiatives and our efforts   to further engage the workforce   through   programs such as   Courage to Care, Total Safety Culture, and UP Way (our continuous improvement culture  ).      

Financial Performance     In 2015, we generated operating income of $8.1 billion, an 8% decrease compared to a record-setting 2014.  Despite a 6% decrease in carloads  , it was our second-best financial performance ever.   Core pricing gains   of 3.7%,   productivity  , and improved network operations partially offset the lower volumes.  Our operating ratio for 2015 of 63.1% was an all-time best, improving from last year s operating ratio of 63.5%.  Net income of $4.8 billion translated into earnings of $5.49 per diluted share for 2015.     

Freight Revenues     Our   freight revenues   declined 10% year-over-year to $20.4 billion   as a result of   lower volume levels in five of our six commodity groups and overall lower fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by core pricing gains. Volume declines in coal,   international intermodal, frac sand, metals, crude oil, and grain shipments more than offset volume growth in domestic intermodal, finished vehicles, automotive parts, industrial chemicals and plastics shipments.     

Network Operations          Significant     improvements were made in our operating and service metrics, as our average train speed, as reported to the AAR, increased 6% in 2015 compared to 2014, and our average terminal dwell time decreased 3%, both reflecting the impact of lower volumes and improved network fluidity.     

Fuel Prices     Our average price per gallon of diesel fuel in 2015 decreased 38% from the average price in 2014, as both crude oil and the conversion spreads between crude oil and diesel declined in 2015. The lower price decreased operating expenses by $1.2 billion (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume declines). Gross-ton miles decreased 9%, which also d  ecreased   fuel expense.  These declines were partially offset by a 1% increase in our fuel consumption   rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed   divided by gross ton-miles in thousands.     

Free Cash Flow     Cash generated by operating activities totaled $7.3 billion, yielding free cash flow of   $524 million after reductions of $4.5 billion for cash used in investing activities and a 1  5  % increase   in dividends   declared per share.     In 2015, the timing of the dividend declaration and payable dates was aligned to occur within the same quarter, which resulted in two payments in the first quarter of 2015  .     Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.        

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition  

23 

to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure): 

2016 Outlook 

Safety     Operating a safe railroad benefits all our constituents: our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we serve.  We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, training and employee engagement, and targeted capital investments.  We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture and Courage to Care throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety.  We will continue our efforts to increase detection of rail defects; improve or close crossings; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), industry programs and local community   activities across our network.     

Network Operations     In 2016, we   will continue to   align resources with customer demand, continue to improve network performance,   and   maintain   our surge capability.     

Fuel Prices     With   the dramatic drop in fuel prices   during 2015  ,    fuel price     projections continue to be uncertain in the current environment.    We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors.  As prices fluctuate  ,   there will be a timing impact on earnings, as our fuel surcharge programs trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months.     

Continuing l  ow  er   fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could increase demand for various consumer products that we transport. Alternatively, lower fuel prices will likely have a negative impact on other commodities such as coal, frac sand and crude oil shipments. 

Capital Plan     In 2016, we expect our capital plan to be   approximately   $3.7  5   billion  , inc  luding expenditures for PTC, 230   locomotives   and 450 freight cars  . The capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources   Capital Plan.)     

Financial Expectations       Economic conditions in many of our market sectors continue to drive uncertainty with respect to our volume levels.  We expect volumes to be down slightly in 2016 compared to 2015, but will depend on the overall economy and market conditions.  The strong U.S. dollar and historic low commodity prices could also drive continued volatility.    One of the biggest uncertainties is the outlook for energy markets, which will bring both challenges and opportunities.  In the current environment, we expect continued margin improvement driven by continued pricing opportunities, ongoing productivity initiatives  ,   and the ability to leverage our resources a  nd     strengthen our franchise  .   Over the longer term, w  e expect the overall U.S. economy to continue to improve at a mode  st   pace  , with some markets outperforming others.     

24 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Operating Revenues 

We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as reductions to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues as shipments move from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them. 

Other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from commuter rail operations that we manage, accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage, and miscellaneous contract revenue. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations. 

Freight revenues from five of our six commodity groups decreased in 2015 compared to 2014   due to   a 6% decline   in carloadings and   lower fuel surcharge revenue  , partially offset by core pricing gains.    Volume   declines in coal, international intermodal, frac sand, metals, crude oil, and grain shipments more than offset volume growth in domestic intermodal, finished vehicles, automotive parts, industrial chemicals and plastics shipments. 

Freight revenues from all six commodity groups increased during 2014 compared to 2013 driven by 7% volume growth and core pricing gains of 2.5%.  Volume growth from grain, frac sand, rock, and intermodal (domestic and international) shipments offset declines in crude oil. 

Our fuel surcharge programs generated freight revenues of $  1.3   billion, $2.8 billion, and $2.6 billion in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Fuel surcharge   revenue   in 2015 decreased $  1.5     b  illion   as a result of   a 38% decrease in fuel price and a 6% reduction in carloadings.  Fuel surcharge   revenue   in 2014 increased 6%   based on   our 7% carloadings increase.   

In 2015, other revenue decreased from 2014 due to lower revenues at our subsidiaries, primarily those that broker intermodal and automotive   services, partially offset by higher accessorial revenue driven by increased revenue for container usage and demurrage fees.    

In 2014, other revenue increased from   2013 due to higher revenues at our subsidiaries, primarily those that broker intermodal and automotive services, accessorial revenue driven by increased volume and per diem revenue for container usage (previously included in automotive freight revenue).  

25 

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type: 

[a] 

Each intermodal container or trailer equals one carload.     

26 

Agricultural Products       Lower fuel surcharge   revenue   and volume declines, partially offset by core pricing gains, decreased freight revenue from agricultural shipments in 2015 compared to 2014. Grain shipments decreased   11  % in 2015 compared to 2014. The strength of the U.S. dollar, lower grain commodity prices, and higher worldwide inventories contributed to the reduction in overall demand.  

Higher volume and pricing gains drove the increase in freight revenue from agricultural shipments in 2014 versus 2013. Grain shipments increased 27%, reflecting the strong overall harvest in 2013 and 2014. The 2012   

2015 Agricultural Products Carloads  

drought also negatively impacted the first three quarters of 2013, which created favorable comparisons for the first three quarters of 2014.  Lower export wheat shipments due to a larger world crop partially offset gains in grain. 

Automotive        Freight   revenue from automotive shipments increased compared to 2014   driven by volume growth and   core pric  ing gains  ,   which were   partially offset by   lower   fuel surcharge revenue  .    H  igher automotive production and   record     sales levels drove the volume growth.        

Freight revenue from automotive shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013. Growth in automotive parts and finished vehicle shipments and core price improvements drove the higher revenue. The increase in automotive parts volume was driven by continued strength in production and market penetration.  Finished vehicles shipments increased the last three   

2015 Automotive Carloads  

quarters of 2014 with improved sales and production, which offset declines in the first quarter due to winter weather. Shifts in business mix and a change in how we are compensated for container usage, which is now included as a per diem charge in other revenue, negatively impacted ARC compared to 2013. 

Chemicals        Freight revenue from chemical shipments declined in 2015 versus 2014 due to lower fuel surcharge revenue and volume declines, which more than offset core price improvements.  Crude oil shipments declined as a result of the drop in crude oil prices and production declines from various shale formations, which impacted the regional pricing differences for crude oil.  Lower fertilizer shipments also decreased freight revenue in 2015.  Strength in export plastics markets and industrial chemical shipments helped offset the decline in crude oil and fertilizer shipments.    

Core price improvements, higher volumes and   

2015 Chemicals Carloads  

ARC driven by positive business mix increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2014 compared to 2013.  Shipments of industrial chemicals grew as a result of continued strong demand in the drilling market.  Fertilizer shipments increased due to strong exports of potash.  Reduced shipments of crude oil from the Bakken and Permian shale formations to the Gulf area partially offset these gains as market factors, primarily regional pricing differences for various types of crude oil, displaced some of the former Gulf Coast shipments to the East and West Coasts. 

27 

Coal       Lower volume and fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by core pricing gains, drove the decline in freight revenue from coal shipments in 2015 compared to 2014.  Shipments out of the Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) declined 17% in 2015 as a result of depressed coal markets due to low natural gas prices and high inventory levels.  Shipments out of the SPRB also were negatively impacted as heavy rains in June flooded coal mines and washed out tracks in some areas, impacting both second and third quarter shipments.  Shipments out of Colorado and Utah declined   33  % in 2015 primarily due to lower domestic demand for Colorado and Utah   

2015 Coal Carloads  

coal.  This lower demand was a result of several utilities switching to other fuel sources due to lower natural gas prices.  In addition, coal exports declined due to a soft global market.  

Freight revenue from coal shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013, driven by higher volumes. Shifts in business mix negatively impacted ARC compared to 2013.  SPRB shipments increased 3% from 2013. Strong demand continued throughout the year due to inventory replenishment but network performance and contract losses limited year-over-year volume growth.  Shipments from Colorado and Utah mines increased 6% compared to 2013, driven by higher natural gas prices for most of the year and strong exports through the West Coast.  However, in the fourth quarter volumes from Colorado and Utah mines declined as exports to the Gulf Coast decreased. 

Industrial Products        Freight revenue from industrial products shipments decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 due to volume declines, lower fuel surcharge   revenue, and   lower ARC due to the   mix of traffic, partially offset by core price improvements. Declines in shale   drilling activity due to lower oil prices decreased non-metallic mineral shipments (primarily frac sand carloadings).  Steel shipments also declined as a result of reductions in shale drilling activity, low commodity prices, and increased imports associated with the strength of the U.S. dollar.  Low commodity prices for lumber and the strong U.S. dollar resulted in inventory reductions that reduced lumber shipments.  

2015 Industrial Products Carloads  

Volume growth, core pricing gains and positive business mix in 2014 increased freight revenue for industrial products shipments versus 2013. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand, up 31%)  grew as a result of drilling activity for energy products, as well as evolving drilling practices, which can increase the amount of frac sand used at certain wells.  Additionally, rock and lumber shipments increased from 2013, driven by new housing and commercial construction.  

28 

Intermodal       Lower fuel surcharge revenue and volume declines, partially offset by core pricing gains, resulted in a decline in freight revenue from   intermodal shipments in 2015 compared to 2014.  International shipments declined 8% resulting from the supply chain disruptions stemming from the West Coast   port work disruptions   and historically high retail inventories. Domestic volume increased 3% driven by continued   conversions from trucks and new premium services, more than offsetting the impact of high retail inventory levels and modest retail sales activity.  

Freight revenue from intermodal shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013 driven by   

2015 Intermodal Carloads  

volume growth, core pricing improvements and positive business mix.  Domestic traffic increased 11% due to continued conversions from truck transportation to rail and new premium services.  International traffic grew 5% versus 2013, driven primarily by new business and improving economic conditions.  International gains in the last three quarters of the year offset the declines in the first quarter due to severe weather that negatively impacted consumer demand.  

Mexico Business     Each   of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico.     Freight revenue from Mexico business decreased 4% to $2.2 billion in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower fuel surcharge revenue. Volume levels were flat compared to 2014 as lower shipments of Intermodal, Agricultural, and Industrial Products were offset by growth in Automotive, Coal, and Chemical shipments.  

Revenue from Mexico business increased 8% to $2.3 billion in 2014 versus 2013.  Volume levels increased 8% from 2013, as increases in Agricultural Products, Chemicals, Intermodal, Automotive and Industrial Products offset lower export Coal shipments. 

29 

Operating Expenses 

Operating expenses decreased   nearly   $1.5     b  illion compared to 2014   driven by s  ignificantly lower fuel prices   and volume-related cost savings.  P  roductivity gains in the second   half of the year also drove expenses lower.  These decreases were partially offset   by wage inflation  ,     higher   depreciation  , and   property tax  es  .    In addition, we incurred approximately $35 million of weather-related costs in 2014.  

Operating expenses increased $718 million in 2014 versus 2013. Volume-related expenses, incremental costs associated with operating a slower network, depreciation, wage and benefit inflation, and locomotive and freight car   

2015   Operating Expenses  

materials contributed to the higher costs.  Lower fuel price partially offset these increases.  In addition, there were approximately $35 million of weather-related costs in the first quarter of 2014. 

Compensation and Benefits       Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs.   In 2015, l  ower volume-related costs   and second half productivity gains   were more than offset by general wage inflation and increased hiring and training expenses related to a larger workforce in the first half of the year.   

Volume-related expenses, including training, and a slower network increased our train and engine work force, which, along with general wage and benefit inflation, resulted in increased wages in 2014 compared to 2013.  Weather-related costs in the first quarter of 2014 also increased costs.  

Purchased Services and Materials       Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors and other service providers (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies  . Purchased services and materials   decreased $137 million   compared to 2014 primarily due to lower volume-related costs, including   a decrease in external transportation expenses incurred by our logistics subsidiaries.    Expenses also decreased due to lower locomotive and freight car repair costs.  

Expenses for purchased services in 2014 increased 8% compared to 2013 primarily due to volume-related expenses incurred by our logistics subsidiaries for external transportation and increased crew transportation and lodging due to volumes and a slower network.  In addition, higher consulting fees and higher contract expenses (including equipment maintenance) increased costs compared to 2013.    Locomotive and freight car material expenses increased in 2014 compared to 2013 due to additional volumes, including the impact of activating stored equipment to address operational issues caused by demand and a slower network. 

Fuel     Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment.   Locomotive diesel fuel prices, which   averaged   $1.84 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2015, compared to $2.97 per gallon in 2014, decreased expenses $1.2 billion. In  

30 

addition, fuel costs were lower as gross-ton miles decreased 9%. The fuel consumption rate (c-rate), computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles in thousands, increased 1% compared to 2014. Decreases in heavier, more fuel-efficient shipments,   decreased   gross-ton mile  s     and   increased the c-  rate.    

Volume growth of 7%, as measured by gross ton-miles,   drove   the increase in fuel expense in 2014 compared to 2013. This was essentially offset by lower locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.97 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2014, compared to $3.15 in 2013, along with a slight improvement in c-rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles.  

Depreciation        The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track   material.    A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years, increased depreciation expense in 2015 compared to 2014. This increase was partially offset by our recent depreciation studies that resulted in lower depreciation rates for some asset classes.    

Depreciation was up 7% in 2014 compared to 2013.  A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher ongoing capital spending   drove   the increase. 

Equipment and Other Rents     Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent   expenses  .   Equipment and other rents expense decreased $  4   million compared to 2014   primarily from a decrease   in manifest and intermodal shipments, parti  ally offset by growth in finished vehicle shipments. 

Higher intermodal volumes and longer cycle times increased short-term freight car rental expense in 2014 compared to 2013. Lower equipment leases essentially offset the higher freight car rental expense, as we exercised purchase options on some of our leased equipment. 

Other     Other expenses include state and local taxes, freight, equipment and property damage, utilities, insurance, personal injury, environmental, employee travel, telephone and cellular, computer software, bad debt, and other general expenses  .    Other expenses were flat in 2015 compared to 2014 as higher property taxes   were offset by lower costs in other areas. 

Higher property taxes, personal injury expense and utilities costs partially offset by lower environmental expense and costs associated with damaged freight resulted in an increase in other costs in 2014 compared to 2013. 

Non-Operating Items 

Other Income       Other income increased in 2015 compared to 2014   primarily due to   a $113 million gain from a real estate sale in the second quarter of 2015  , partially offset by a gain from the sale of a permanent easement in 2014  .   

Other income increased in 2014 versus 2013 due to higher gains from real estate sales and a sale of a permanent easement.  These gains were partially offset by higher environmental costs on non-operating property in 2014 and lower lease income due to the $17 million settlement of a land lease contract in 2013. 

Interest Expense       Interest expense increased in 2015 compared to 2014 due to an increased weighted-average debt level of $  13.0   billion in 2015 from $10.  7   billion in 2014, partially offset by the impact of a lower effective interest rate of   4.8  % in 2015 compared to 5.3% in 2014.    

Interest expense increased in 2014 versus 2013 due to an increased weighted-average debt level of $10.7 billion in 2014 from   $9.6 billion in 2013, which more than offset the impact of the lower effective interest rate of 5.3% in 2014 versus 5.7%   in 2013. 

31 

Income Taxes       Lower   pre-tax income decreased income taxes in 2015 compared to 2014. Our effective tax rate for 2015 was 37.7% compared to 37.9% in 2014. 

Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2014 compared to 2013. Our effective tax rate for 2014 was 37.9% compared to 37.7% in 2013. 

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS 

We report a number of key performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads.  We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investor/aar-stb_reports/index.htm. 

Operating/Performance Statistics 

Railroad performance measures are included in the table below: 

Average Train Speed        Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals.    Average train speed, as reported to the Association of American Railroads,   improved 6% in 2015 compared to 2014.    Velocity gains resulted from lower volumes, improved network fluidity and a strong resource position. More favorable weather conditions in the first quarter of 2015 also contributed to the improvement in our average train speed. 

Average train speed decreased 8% in 2014 versus 2013.  The decline was   as result of   a 7% volume increase, a major infrastructure project in Fort Worth, Texas and inclement weather, including flooding in the Midwest in the second quarter and severe weather conditions in the first quarter that impacted all major U.S. and Canadian railroads.  

Average Terminal Dwell Time     Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time improved 3% in 2015 compared to 2014, reflecting   the impact of lower volume and improved network operations. 

Average terminal dwell time increased 12% in 2014 compared to 2013, caused by higher volumes and inclement weather. 

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles     Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles.  Gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles decreased 9% and 12%, respectively in 2015 compared to 2014, resulting from a 6% decrease in   carloads.   Changes in commodity mix   drove   the variances in year-over-year declines between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads. 

Gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloadings all increased 7% in 2014 compared to 2013. 

Operating Ratio     Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of operating revenue.  Our operating ratio improved 0.4 points to a new record low of 63.1% in 2015 compared to 2014.  C  ore pricing gains, the impact of lower fuel prices, resource realignments,   network efficiencies     and productivity gains   more than     offset the impact of lower volume and inflation.  

Our operating ratio improved 2.6 points to 63.  5% in 2014 versus 2013.  Core pricing, business demand and productivity more than offset the incremental operating costs associated with volume, a slower network, weather and inflation. 

32 

Employees       Employee levels   increased 1% in 2015 compared to 2014,   driven   by more employees in training and an increase in capital project   work. More employees were in training as a result of the number of transportation employees hired during the last half of 2014 and early 2015 to handle expected volume increases, and who continued receiving training in 2015  , most of which occurred in the first nine months of the year. 

Employee levels increased 2% in 2014 versus 2013.  A decrease in our capital workforce due to improved productivity and project mix partially offset the larger train and engine workforce required for higher volume levels and a slower network.  We successfully managed the growth of our full-time equivalent train and engine force levels at a rate less than our volume growth in 2014. 

Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity 

Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC) 

*      Adjusted for the retrospective adoption of Accounting Standard Update 2015-03 related to the presentation of deferred debt   issuance costs. 

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments.  In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders  Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders  equity to ROIC  . Our 2015 ROIC decreased   1.9   points compared to 2014, primarily as a result of lower   earnings and a higher invested capital base. 

Debt to Capital 

*      Adjusted for the retrospective adoption of Accounting Standard Update 2015-03 related to the presentation of deferred debt   issuance costs. 

33 

Adjusted Debt to Capital 

*      Adjusted for the retrospective adoption of Accounting Standard Update 2015-03 related to the presentation of deferred debt   issuance costs. 

Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities.  Operating leases were discounted using 4.8% and 5.3% at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The discount rate reflects our effective interest rate. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with our overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2015 debt to capital   ratios increased as a result of a $2.8 billion increase in debt from December 31, 2014. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

As of December 31, 2015, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial   paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.7 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2015. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2015. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $650 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $400 million as   of December 31, 2015, and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year.  Our access to this receivables securitization facility may be reduced or restricted if our bond ratings fall to certain levels below investment grade. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the size or utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The   Company s $1.7 billion revolving credit facility is   intended to support the issuance of commercial paper by UPC and also serves as an emergency source of liquidity. The Company currently does not intend to make any borrowings under this facility. 

34 

At December 31, 2015 and 2014, we   had a modest working capital surplus. This   reflects a strong cash position that provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In addition, we believe we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities. 

Operating Activities 

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 due to lower net income and changes in working capital, partially offset by the timing of tax payments. 

Federal tax law provided for 100% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2011 and 50% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2012-2013. As a result, the Company deferred a substantial portion of its 2011-2013 income tax expense, contributing to the positive operating cash flow in those years. Congress extended 50% bonus depreciation for 2014, but this extension occurred in December, and the related benefit was realized in 2015, rather than 2014.  Similarly, in December of 2015, Congress extended bonus depreciation through 2019, which delayed the benefit of 2015 bonus depreciation into 2016.  Bonus depreciation will be at a rate of 50% for 2015, 2016 and 2017, 40% for 2018 and 30% for 2019. 

Higher net income in 2014 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2013, despite higher income tax payments. 2014 income tax payments were higher than 2013 primarily due to higher income, but also because we paid taxes previously deferred by bonus depreciation. 

Investing Activities 

Higher capital investments in locomotives and freight cars, including $327 million in early lease buyouts,     which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market conditions,     drove   the increase in cash used in investing activities in 2015 compared to 2014. 

Higher capital investments, including the early buyout of the long-term operating lease of our headquarters building for approximately $261 million,   drove   the increase in   cash used in investing activities in 2014 compared to 2013. Significant investments also were made for new locomotives, freight cars and containers, and capacity and commercial facility projects. Capital investments in 2014 also included $99 million for the early buyout of locomotives and freight cars under long-term operating leases, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market conditions.  

35 

The following tables detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013: 

[a] 

Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment.     

[c] 

Technology and other includes the   $261 million   early buyout of our headquarters building operating lease   in 2014  .     

Capital Plan       In 2016, we expect our capital plan to be approximately   $3.7  5   bi  llion, which may be revised if business conditions or the regulatory environment affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments.  While asset replacements will fluctuate as part of our renewal strategy, we expect to use 55% to 60% of our capital investments to renew and improve existing capital assets.  We will continue to invest in our network and terminals where appropriate, balancing terminal capacity with mainline capacity.  Significant investments in technology improvements are planned, including approximately   $375   million for PTC.  We will also continue commercial investments in rail facilities and equipment, including 230 locomotives and 450 freight cars. 

We expect to fund our 2016 cash capital plan by using some or all of the following: cash generated from operations, proceeds from the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan. We expect our plan will enhance the long-term value of the Company for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth. 

Financing Activities 

Cash used in financing activities increased in 2015 compared to 2014.   An increase of $712 million in dividends paid   and   $240 million for the repurchase of shares under our common stock repurchase program more than offset an increase of $740 million in debt issued and a decrease of $154 million in debt repaid. The higher   dividend payments primarily were a result of adjusting the dividend payable dates to align with the timing of the quarterly dividend declaration and payment within the same quarter. Aligning the quarterly dividend declaration and payment resulted in two payments in the first quarter of 2015: the fourth quarter 2014 dividend of $438 million, which was paid on January 2, 2015, as well as the first quarter 2015 dividend of $484 million, which was paid on March 30, 2015. The second quarter 2015 dividend of $479 million was paid on June 30, 2015, the third quarter 2015 dividend of $476 million was paid on September 30, 2015, and the fourth quarter 2015 dividend of   $467   million was paid on December 31, 2015. Higher dividends per share also contributed to the increase in dividends paid.  

36 

Cash used in financing activities remained flat in 2014 versus 2013. Increases for the repurchase of shares under our common stock repurchase program and higher dividend payments in 2014 of $1.6 billion compared to $1.3 billion in 2013 were offset by higher debt issuances in 2014. 

Credit Facilities     At December 31, 2015, we had $1.7 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the facility), which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2015. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior unsecured debt. The facility matures in May 2019 under a five-year term and requires UPC to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio. At December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014 (and at all times during the periods presented), we were in compliance with this covenant.  

The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2015, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $41.4 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $14.3 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $125 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.  

During 2015, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2015, and 2014, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.  

(See further discussion in this Item 7 under Receivables Securitization Facility for information regarding the Company s receivables securitization facility.) 

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

For each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was   11.6,   13.5, and 11.8, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges.  (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.) 

Common Shareholders  Equity 

Dividend Restrictions     Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $13.6 billion and $15.4 billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

37 

Share Repurchase Program 

Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 120 million shares of our common stock by December 31, 2017, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of December 31, 2015, we repurchased a total of $16.0 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007.  The table below represents shares repurchased under this repurchase program. 

Management's assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases.  We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand.  Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees. 

From Jan  uary 1, 2016, through February 4  , 2016, we repurchased   3.  7   million shares at   an aggregate cost of approximately   $2  68   million. 

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings     We filed a new shelf registration statement with the SEC that became effective on February 9, 2015. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to $4.0 billion of debt securities, replacing the $4.0 billion authorized under our shelf registration filed in February 2013, which was fully utilized after our January 2015 debt offering noted below. Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings.  We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time. 

During 2015, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our shelf registrations: 

We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2015, we had remaining authority to issue up   to $2.2 billion   of debt securities under our current shelf registration. 

Equipment Trust     On May 12, 2015, UPRR consummated a pass-through (P/T) financing, whereby a P/T trust was created, which issued $399 million of P/T trust certificates with a stated interest rate of 2.695%. The P/T trust certificates will mature on May 12, 2027. The proceeds from the issuance of the P/T trust certificates were used to purchase equipment trust certificates to be issued by UPRR to finance the acquisition of 182 locomotives. The equipment trust certificates are secured by a lien on the  

38 

locomotives. The $399 million is classified as debt due after one year in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 

Debt Exchange     On August 21, 2013, we exchanged $1,170 million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between 2016 and 2040 (the Existing Notes) for $439 million of 3.646% notes (the New 2024 Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $700 million of 4.821% notes (the New 2044 Notes) due February 1, 2044, plus cash consideration of approximately $280 million in addition to $8 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes.  In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different.  The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes.  No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange.  Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $9 million and were included in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2013. 

The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged: 

Receivables Securitization Facility     The Railroad maintains a $650 million, 3-year receivables securitization facility maturing in July 2017 under which it sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a consolidated, wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse, an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors. The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI. 

The amount outstanding under the facility was $400 million at both December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively. The facility was supported by $0.9 billion and $1.2 billion of accounts receivable as collateral at December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, which, as a retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 

The outstanding amount the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $650 million, may fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change. 

The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing benchmark and commercial paper rates, program fees paid to participating banks, commercial paper issuance costs, and fees of participating banks for unused commitment availability.  The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were   $  5 million, $4 million, and $5 million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

39 

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments 

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report),  there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry. 

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2015: 

[a] 

Excludes cap  ital lease obligations of $1,268   million  , as well as unamortized discount and deferred issuance costs of $(674  ) million. Includes an interest component of   $9,278   million.     

[b] 

Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate.      

[c] 

Represents total obligations, incl  uding interest component of $319   million.     

[d] 

Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, l  ocomotives, ties, ballast, and rail  ; and agreements to purchase other goods and services.  For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.     

[e] 

Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years.      

[f] 

Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and pe  nalties, as of December 31, 2015  .  For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.     

[b] 

$400 million of the receivables securitization facility was   utilized as of December 31, 2015  , which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures in July 2017.     

[c] 

Includes guaranteed obligations related   to our   affiliated operations.     

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Guarantees     At December 31, 2015, and 2014, we were contingently liable for $53 million and $82 million in guarantees. We have recorded liabilities of $0 and $0.3 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of  

40 

default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 

OTHER MATTERS 

Labor Agreements       Approximately 85% of our 47,457 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions.   On January 1, 2015, current labor agreements became subject to modification and we began the current round of negotiations with the unions. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention) are exhausted.  Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time and we rarely experience work stoppages while negotiations are pending. 

Inflation     Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.  

Derivative Financial Instruments     We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements. 

Market and Credit Risk     We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities. 

Determination of Fair Value     We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows. 

Sensitivity Analyses     The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results. 

At December 31, 2015, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 4.2% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2016 than our December 31, 2015 variable rate, which was approximately 1.1%, our interest expense would   increase   by approximately $6 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2015. 

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2015, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1.6 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2015. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates. 

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges     We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in  

41 

managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities. 

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 815; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had no interest rate fair value hedges outstanding. 

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges     We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. As of December 31, 2015, and 2014, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding. 

Accounting Pronouncements     In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09),   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  .  ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition guidance in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition.  The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in the exchange for those goods or services.  This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and can be adopted either retrospectively or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption.  ASU 2014-09 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03 (ASU 2015-03),   Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30)  . ASU 2015-03 changes the presentation of debt issuance costs in the financial statements to present such costs as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of debt issuance costs will be reported as interest expense. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015. We elected to early adopt ASU 2015-03 on December 31, 2015. As a result, the Company reclassified debt issuance costs from other assets to a direct deduction from debt due after one year on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. ASU 2015-03 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position,   and had no impact on our results of operations   or cash flows.  All prior period financial information presented herein has been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of this ASU. 

In November 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-17 (ASU 2015-17),   Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (Subtopic 740-10)  . ASU 2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the requirement for companies to present deferred tax liabilities and assets as current and non-current on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  Instead, companies will be required to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current.  This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted.  We elected to early adopt ASU 2015-17 on December 31, 2015.  ASU 2015-17 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position,   and had no impact on our results of operations   or cash flows  .  All prior period financial information presented herein has been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of this ASU. 

In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01),   Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)  . ASU 2016-01 provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and early adoption is not permitted.   ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

Asserted and Unasserted Claims     Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. To the extent possible, we have recorded a liability where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters. 

42 

Indemnities     Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions. 

Climate Change     Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency. 

CR    ITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material. 

Personal Injury     The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work. 

Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 94% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 6% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2015. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $318 million to $345 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.  Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation. 

Our personal injury liability activity was as follows: 

43 

Our personal injury claims activity was as follows: 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2015, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2015, and 2014. 

Asbestos     We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims.  This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions: 

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.     

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.     

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.     

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.     

Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 22% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 78% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2015.  Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $120 million to $129 million.  We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. 

Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows: 

Our asbestos-related claims activity was as follows: 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2015, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2015, and 2014.  The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws  

44 

governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants. 

Environmental Costs     We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 290 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 31 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government,   19   of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site. 

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Our environmental liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. 

Our environmental liability activity was as follows: 

Our environmental site activity was as follows: 

The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. 

Property and Depreciation     Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis.  Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers.  Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria.  Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track.  We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates.  The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items.  We currently have more than   60   depreciable  

45 

asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors. 

We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies.  We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property.  Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors: 

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;     

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;     

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and     

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.     

For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track.  It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail).  The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve).  Our depreciation studies for rail in high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives.  For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile  .  Rail in high-density traffic   corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material.  Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2015, the estimated service lives of the majority of this rail ranged from approximately 19 years to approximately 39 years.  For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies.  Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively. 

Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets.  We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets.  Actual use and retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods. 

Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods  depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $66 million.  If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $70 million  .  Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in lower depreciation rates for some asset classes. The  se   lower rates   will partially offset the impact of a   projected higher depreciable asset base  , resulting in an   increase   in   total depreciation expense by approximately 1% to 2% in 2016 versus 2015. 

Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized.  The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies.  The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes.  Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate.  In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies.  Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets. 

46 

For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) it is unusual, (ii) it is material in amount, and (iii) it varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies.  During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties.  A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations. 

Income Taxes     We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated.  Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.    For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $390 million. 

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2015 and 2014, there were   no   valuation allowances. 

We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards. 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits     We use an actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend rate. 

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors: 

Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of cash flows matches our plans  expected benefit payments.     

Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.     

Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.     

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2015 and the estimated impact on 2015 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions: 

47 

Sensitivities  

Increase in Expense  

Millions  

Pension  

OPEB  

0.25% decrease in discount rate   

$  
				 
				 14 

$  
				 
				 1 

0.25% increase in compensation scale   

$  
				 
				 9 

N/A  

0.25% decrease in expected return on plan assets   

$  
				 
				 8 

N/A  

1% increase in health care cost trend rate   

N/A  

$  
				 
				 3 

The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost for the years ended December 31: 

In 2016, we will measure the service cost and interest cost components of our net periodic benefit cost by using individual spot rates matched with separate cash flows for each future year instead of a single weighted-average discount rate approach.   Our net periodic pension cost is expected to decrease to approximately $42 million in 2016 from $120 million in 2015.  Our net periodic OPEB expense is expected to decrease to approximately $13 million in 2016 from $19 million in 2015.   

CA    UTIONARY INFORMATION 

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the Chairman s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expe  nditures under the caption  2016   Capital   Plan    in Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item 5 of Part II; and statements and information se  t forth under the captions  2016   Outlook   ;    Liquidity and Capital Resources   ; and  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    in this Item 7 of Part II, and (B) any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings;  the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved;  projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions;  expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements;  expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans;  expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results;  estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.  Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as  believes,   expects,   may,   should,   would,   will,   intends,   plans,   estimates,   anticipates,   projects  and similar words, phrases or expressions. 

Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information.  Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control.  The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or  

48 

amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K.  All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors. 

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements. 

Ite    m 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

Information concerning market risk sensitive instruments is set forth under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Oper  ations   Other Matters, Item 7. 

**************************************** 

49 

It    em 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

50 

RE    PORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of   Union Pacific Corporation 

Omaha, Nebraska 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated   statements of financial position   of   Union Pacific Corporation   and Subsidiary Companies (the "Corporation") as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in common shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015  . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Table of Contents at Part IV, Item 15.   These financial statements   and financial statement schedule   are the responsibility of the Corporation s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements   and financial statement schedule   based on our audits. 

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of   Union Pacific Corporation   and Subsidiary Companies as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.   Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 5, 2016 expressed  an unqualified opinion on the Corporation's internal control over   financial reporting. 

Omaha, Nebraska 

February 5, 2016 

51 

CO    NSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

C    ONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

52 

CO    NSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION  

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

53 

CO    NSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Co  nsolidated Financial Statements. 

54 

CO    NSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN COMMON SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

[a] 

AOCI = Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (Note 10)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 

55 

NOT    ES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to the  Corporation ,  Company ,  UPC ,  we ,  us , and  our  mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which will be separately referred to herein as  UPRR  or the  Railroad . 

1. Nature of Operations 

Operations and Segmentation     We are a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. Our network includes   32,084   route miles, linking Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and Eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We own   26,064   miles and operate on the remainder pursuant to trackage rights or leases. We serve the western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers for the handling of freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic is moved through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. 

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our   one   reportable operating segment. Although we provide and analyze revenue by commodity group, we treat the financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network.   The following table provides freight revenue by commodity group: 

Although our revenues are principally derived from customers domiciled in the U.S., the ultimate points of origination or destination for some products transported by us are outside the U.S. Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Included in the above table are   freight   revenues from our Mexico business which amounted to   $2.2   billion in 2015,   $2.3   billion in 2014, and   $2.1   billion in 2013. 

Basis of Presentation     The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) as codified in the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). Certain prior period amounts   in the statement of cash flows and income tax footnote have been aggregated or   disaggregated   further   to conform to the current period financial pre  sentation  . 

2. Significant Accounting Policies 

Principles of Consolidation     The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Union Pacific Corporation and all of its subsidiaries. Investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned) are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions are eliminated. We currently have no less than majority-owned investments that require consolidation under variable interest entity requirements.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents     Cash equivalents consist of investments with original maturities of three months or less.  

Accounts Receivable     Accounts receivable includes receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current  

56 

economic conditions.  Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 

Investments     Investments represent our investments in affiliated companies (20% to 50% owned) that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and investments in companies (less than 20% owned) accounted for under the cost method of accounting. 

Materials and Supplies     Materials and supplies are carried at the lower of average cost or market.  

Property and Depreciation     Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards), for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track.  We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates.  The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items.  We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies.  Under the group method of depreciation, no gain or loss is recognized when depreciable property is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business. 

Impairment of Long-lived Assets     We review long-lived assets, including identifiable intangibles, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present and the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying value of the long-lived assets, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair value as measured by the discounted cash flows. 

Revenue Recognition     We recognize freight revenues as freight moves from origin to destination. The allocation of revenue between reporting periods is based on the relative transit time in each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred. Other revenues, which include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenue, are recognized as service is performed or contractual obligations are met. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are recorded as a reduction to operating revenues based on actual or projected future customer shipments. 

Translation of Foreign Currency     Our portion of the assets and liabilities related to foreign investments are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Unrealized gains or losses are reflected within common shareholders  equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. 

Fair Value Measurements     We use a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels.  The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.  These levels include: 

Level 1:  Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 

Level 2:  Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. 

Level 3:  Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data. 

We have applied fair value measurements to our pension plan assets and short- and long-term debt. 

Stock-Based Compensation     We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted. 

We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees and directors, including stock options. Compensation expense is based on the calculated fair value of the awards as measured at the grant date and is expensed ratably over the service period of the awards (generally the vesting period). The fair value of retention awards is the closing stock price on the date of grant, while the fair value of stock options is determined by using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. 

57 

Earnings Per Share     Basic earnings per share are calculated on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each period. Diluted earnings per share include shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and stock-based awards where the conversion of such instruments would be dilutive. 

Income Taxes     We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated.  Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. 

We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for  unrecognized tax benefits  is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards. 

Pension and Postretirement Benefits     We incur certain employment-related expenses associated with pensions and postretirement health benefits. In order to measure the expense associated with these benefits, we must make various assumptions including discount rates used to value certain liabilities, expected return on plan assets used to fund these expenses, compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and expected future health care costs. The assumptions used by us are based on our historical experience as well as current facts and circumstances. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability associated with these benefits. 

Personal Injury     The cost of injuries to employees and others on our property is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability. Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred. 

Asbestos     We estimate a liability for asserted and unasserted asbestos-related claims based on an assessment of the number and value of those claims. We use a statistical analysis to assist us in properly measuring our potential liability. Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred. 

Environmental     When environmental issues have been identified with respect to property currently or formerly owned, leased, or otherwise used in the conduct of our business, we perform, with the assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on such property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable. Legal fees and incidental costs are expensed as incurred. 

Use of Estimates     The preparation of our   Consolidated Financial Statements   in conformity with GAAP requires management to make   estimates and assumptions   that affect   certain   reported   assets   and   liabilities,     and the disclosure of certain contingent assets and liabilities   as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue   and expenses   during the reporting period  . Actual future results may differ from such estimates. 

3. Accounting Pronouncements 

In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09),   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  .  ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition guidance in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition.  The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the  

58 

consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in the exchange for those goods or services.  This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017  , and can be adopted either retrospectively or as a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of adoption  .  ASU 2014-09 is not   expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03 (ASU 2015-03),   Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30)  . ASU 2015-03 changes the presentation of debt issuance costs in the financial statements to present such costs as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. Amortization of debt issuance costs will be reported as interest expense. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015. We elected to early adopt ASU 2015-03 on December 31, 2015. As a result, the Company reclassified debt issuance costs from other assets to debt on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. ASU 2015-03 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position,   and had no impact on our results of operations   or cash flows  .  All prior period financial information presented herein has been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of this ASU. 

In November 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-17 (ASU 2015-17),   Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (Subtopic 740-10)  . ASU 2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by eliminating the requirement for companies to present deferred tax liabilities and assets as current and non-current on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  Instead, companies will be required to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current.  This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted.  We elected to early adopt ASU 2015-17 on December 31, 2015.  ASU 2015-17 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position,     and had no impact on our results of operations   or cash flows  .  All prior period financial information presented herein has been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of this ASU. 

In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01),   Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)  . ASU 2016-01 provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and early adoption is not permitted.   ASU 2016-01 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 

4. Stock Split 

On   June 6, 2014  , we completed a   two  -for-one stock split, effected in the form of a   100%   stock dividend. The stock split entitled all shareholders of record at the close of business on   May 27, 2014  , to receive one additional share of our common stock, par value   $2.50   per share, for each share of common stock held on that date. All references to common shares and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. 

5. Stock Options and Other Stock Plans 

There are   7,140   restricted shares outstanding under the 1992 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation. We no longer grant awards of restricted shares under this plan. 

In April 2000, the shareholders approved the Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan (Directors Plan) whereby   2,200,000   shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance to our non-employee directors.   Under the Directors Plan, each non-employee director, upon his or her initial election to the Board of Directors, receives a grant of 4,000 retention shares or retention stock units. Prior to December 31, 2007, each non-employee director received annually an option to purchase at fair value a number of shares of our common stock, not to exceed 20,000 shares during any calendar year, determined by dividing 60,000 by 1/3 of the fair market value of one share of our common stock on the date of such Board of Directors meeting, with the resulting quotient rounded up or down to the nearest 50 share  s.   In September 2007, the Board of Directors eliminated the annual payment of options for 2008 and all future years. As of December 31, 2015,   36,000   restricted shares and   45,400   options were outstanding under the Directors Plan. 

The Union Pacific Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (2004 Plan) was approved by shareholders in April 2004. The 2004 Plan reserved   84,000,000   shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any  

59 

shares subject to awards made under previous plans that were outstanding on April 16, 2004, and became available for regrant pursuant to the terms of the 2004 Plan. Under the 2004 Plan, non-qualified options, stock appreciation rights, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under the 2004 Plan. As of December 31, 2015,   3,652,954   options and   2,092,721   retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2004 Plan.  We no longer grant any stock options or other stock or unit awards under this plan. 

The Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (2013 Plan) was approved by shareholders in May 2013. The 2013 Plan reserved   78,000,000   shares of our common stock for issuance, plus any shares subject to awards made under previous plans as of February 28, 2013, that are subsequently cancelled, expired, forfeited or otherwise not issued under previous plans.  Under the 2013 Plan, non-qualified options, incentive stock options, retention shares, stock units, and incentive bonus awards may be granted to eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. Non-employee directors are not eligible for awards under the 2013 Plan. As of December 31, 2015,   1,873,014   options and   2,061,737   retention shares and stock units were outstanding under the 2013 Plan. 

Pursuant to the above plans   76,548,520;     77,786,772;   and   79,574,896   shares of our common stock were authorized and available for grant at December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

Stock-Based Compensation     We have several stock-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors receive stock options, nonvested retention shares, and nonvested stock units. We refer to the nonvested shares and stock units collectively as  retention awards . We have elected to issue treasury shares to cover option exercises and stock unit vestings, while new shares are issued when retention shares are granted. 

Information regarding stock-based compensation appears in the table below: 

Stock Options     We estimate the fair value of our stock option awards using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.   The table below shows the annual weighted-average assumptions used for valuation purposes: 

The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant; the   expected   dividend yield is calculated as the ratio of dividends paid per share of common stock to the stock price on the date of grant; the expected life is based on historical and expected exercise behavior; and   expected   volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock price over the expected life of the option. 

60 

A summary of stock option activity during 2015 is presented below: 

Stock options are granted at the closing price on the date of grant, have   ten  -year contractual terms, and vest no later than   three   years from the date of grant.   None   of the stock options outstanding at December 31, 2015, are subject to performance or market-based vesting conditions. 

At December 31, 2015, there was   $18   million of unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.0   year.   Additional information regarding stock option exercises appears in the table below: 

Retention Awards     The fair value of retention awards is based on the closing price of the stock on the grant date. Dividends and dividend equivalents are paid to participants during the vesting periods. 

Changes in our retention awards during 2015 were as follows: 

Retention awards are granted at no cost to the employee or non-employee director and vest over periods lasting up to   four   years. At December 31, 2015, there was   $88   million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.5   years. 

Performance Retention Awards     In February 2015, our Board of Directors approved performance stock unit grants. Other than different performance targets, the basic terms of these performance stock units are identical to those granted in February 2013 and February 2014, including using annual return on invested capital (ROIC) as the performance measure.   We define ROIC as net operating profit adjusted for interest expense (including interest on the present value of operating leases) and taxes on interest divided by average invested capital adjusted for the present value of operating leases. 

Stock units awarded to selected employees under these grants are subject to continued employment for 37 months and the attainment of certain levels of ROIC.     We expense the fair value of the units that are  

61 

probable of being earned based on our forecasted ROIC over the 3-year performance period.   We measure the fair value of these performance stock units based upon the closing price of the underlying common stock as of the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated future dividends. Dividend equivalents are paid to participants only after the units are earned. 

The assumptions used to calculate the present value of estimated future dividends related to the February 2015 grant were as follows: 

Changes in our performance retention awards during 2015 were as follows: 

At December 31, 2015, there was   $19   million of total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested performance retention awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   0.7   years. This expense is subject to achievement of the ROIC levels established for the performance stock unit grants. 

6. Retirement Plans 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits  

Pension Plans     We provide defined benefit retirement income to eligible non-union employees through qualified and non-qualified (supplemental) pension plans. Qualified and non-qualified pension benefits are based on years of service and the highest compensation during the latest years of employment, with specific reductions made for early retirements. 

Other Postretirement Benefits (OPEB)     We provide medical and life insurance benefits for eligible retirees. These benefits are funded as medical claims and life insurance premiums are paid. 

Funded Status 

We are required by GAAP to separately recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and OPEB plans as an asset or liability. The funded status represents the difference between the projected benefit obligation (PBO) and the fair value of the plan assets. Our non-qualified (supplemental) pension plan is unfunded by design. The PBO of the pension plans is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants, including the effect of assumed future compensation increases. The PBO of the OPEB plan is equal to the accumulated benefit obligation, as the present value of the OPEB liabilities is not affected by compensation increases. Plan assets are measured at fair value. We use a December 31 measurement date for plan assets and obligations for all our retirement plans. 

62 

Changes in our PBO and plan assets were as follows for the years ended December 31: 

Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 consist of: 

Pre-tax amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 consist of: 

Pre-tax changes recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss) during 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows: 

63 

Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) expected to be amortized into net periodic cost during 2016: 

Underfunded Accumulated Benefit Obligation     The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the present value of benefits earned to date, assuming no future compensation growth. The underfunded accumulated benefit obligation represents the difference between the ABO and the fair value of plan assets. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the non-qualified (supplemental) plan ABO was   $388   million and   $379   million, respectively.   The following table discloses only the PBO, ABO, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans where the accumulated benefit obligation is in excess of the fair value of the plan assets as of December 31: 

The ABO for all defined benefit pension plans was   $3.7   billion and   $3.9   billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Assumptions     The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31: 

Expense 

Both pension and OPEB expense are determined based upon the annual service cost of benefits (the actuarial cost of benefits earned during a period) and the interest cost on those liabilities, less the expected return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets that recognizes changes in fair value over a   five  -year period. This practice is intended to reduce year-to-year volatility in pension expense, but it can have the effect of delaying the recognition of differences between actual returns on assets and expected returns based on long-term rate of return assumptions. Differences in actual experience in relation to assumptions are not recognized in net income immediately, but are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income and, if necessary, amortized as pension or OPEB expense. 

64 

The components of our net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) were as follows for the years ended December 31: 

Assumptions     The weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine expense were as follows: 

The discount rate was based on a yield curve of high quality corporate bonds with cash flows matching our plans  expected benefit payments.  The expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into account current and expected market conditions. The actual return on pension plan assets, net of fees, was approximately   (1)%   in 2015,   6%   in 2014, and   17%   in 2013. 

Assumed health care cost trend rates have an effect on the expense and liabilities reported for health care plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate is based on historical rates and expected market conditions. The 2016 assumed health care cost trend rate for employees under 65 is   6.34%  .  It is assumed the rate will decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of   4.5%   in   2028   and will remain at that level.    A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects on OPEB: 

Millions  

One % pt.    Increase  

One % pt.    Decrease  

Effect on total service and interest cost components  

$  
				 
				 1 

$  
				 
				 (1)

Effect on accumulated benefit obligation  

17 

(14)

Cash Contributions 

The following table details our cash contributions for the qualified pension plans and the benefit payments for the non-qualified (supplemental) pension and OPEB plans: 

Our policy with respect to funding the qualified plans is to fund at least the minimum required by law and not more than the maximum amount deductible for tax purposes. All contributions made to the qualified pension plans in 2015 were voluntary and were made with cash generated from operations. 

65 

The non-qualified pension and OPEB plans are not funded and are not subject to any minimum regulatory funding requirements. Benefit payments for each year represent supplemental pension payments and claims paid for medical and life insurance. We anticipate our 2016 supplemental pension and OPEB payments will be made from cash generated from operations. 

Benefit Payments 

The following table details expected benefit payments for the years 2016 through 2025: 

Asset Allocation Strategy 

Our pension plan asset allocation at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and target allocation for 2016, are as follows: 

The investment strategy for pension plan assets is to maintain a broadly diversified portfolio designed to achieve our target average long-term rate of return of 7.5%.   While we believe we can achieve a long-term average rate of return of 7.5%, we cannot be certain that the portfolio will perform to our expectations. Assets are strategically allocated among equity, debt, and other investments in order to achieve a diversification level that reduces fluctuations in investment returns. Asset allocation target ranges for equity, debt, and other portfolios are evaluated at least every three years with the assistance of an independent consulting firm. Actual asset allocations are monitored monthly, and rebalancing actions are executed at least quarterly, if needed. 

The pension plan investments are held in a Master Trust. The majority of pension plan assets are invested in equity securities because equity portfolios have historically provided higher returns than debt and other asset classes over extended time horizons and are expected to do so in the future. Correspondingly, equity investments also entail greater risks than other investments.  Equity risks are balanced by investing a significant portion of the plans  assets in high quality debt securities. The average credit rating of the debt portfolio exceeded A as of December 31, 2015 and A+ as of December 31, 2014. The debt portfolio is also broadly diversified and invested primarily in U.S. Treasury, mortgage, and corporate securities. The weighted-average maturity of the debt portfolio was   12   years at both December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

The investment of pension plan assets in securities issued by UPC is explicitly prohibited by the plan for both the equity and debt portfolios, other than through index fund holdings. 

Fair Value Measurements 

The pension plan assets are valued at fair value. The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the investments measured at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy. 

66 

Temporary Cash Investments     These investments consist of U.S. dollars and foreign currencies held in master trust accounts at The Northern Trust Company (the Trustee).  Foreign currencies held are reported in terms of U.S. dollars based on currency exchange rates readily available in active markets. These temporary cash investments are classified as Level 1 investments. 

Registered Investment Companies     Registered Investment Companies are real estate investments and bond investments registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The real estate investments are traded actively on public exchanges. The share prices for these investments are published at the close of each business day.  The Plan s holdings of real estate investments are classified as Level 1 investments.  The bond investments are not traded publicly, but the underlying assets held in these funds are traded on active markets and the prices for these assets are readily observable.  The Plan s holdings in bond investments are classified as Level 2 investments. 

Federal Government Securities     Federal Government Securities consist of bills, notes, bonds, and other fixed income securities issued directly by the U.S. Treasury or by government-sponsored enterprises. These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources.  Federal Government Securities are classified as Level 2 investments. 

Bonds and Debentures     Bonds and debentures consist of fixed income securities issued by U.S. and non-U.S. corporations as well as state and local governments.  These assets are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources.  Corporate, state, and municipal bonds and debentures are classified as Level 2 investments. 

Corporate Stock     This investment category consists of common and preferred stock issued by U.S. and non-U.S. corporations.  Most common shares are traded actively on exchanges and price quotes for these shares are readily available. Common stock is classified as a Level 1 investment.  Preferred shares included in this category are valued using a bid evaluation process with bid data provided by independent pricing sources.  Preferred stock is classified as a Level 2 investment. 

Venture Capital and Buyout Partnerships     This investment category is comprised of interests in limited partnerships that invest primarily in privately-held companies.  Due to the private nature of the partnership investments, pricing inputs are not readily observable.  Asset valuations are developed by the general partners that manage the partnerships.  These valuations are based on the application of public market multiples to private company cash flows, market transactions that provide valuation information for comparable companies, and other methods.  The fair value recorded by the Plan is calculated using each partnership s net asset value (NAV), which is derived from the valuation method described here. The Plan s holdings of limited partnership interests are classified as Level 3 investments. 

Real Estate Partnerships     Most of the Plan s real estate investments are partnership interests.  The Real Estate Partnership category also includes real estate investments held in similar structures such as private real estate investment trusts and limited liability companies. Valuations for the holdings in this category are not based on readily observable inputs and are primarily derived from property appraisals. The fair value recorded by the Plan is calculated using the NAV for each investment, which is derived from the valuation methods described here. The Plan s interests in private real estate partnerships, investment trusts, and limited liability companies are classified as Level 3 investments. 

Collective Trust and Other Fund  s   Collective trust funds are comprised of shares or units in commingled funds that are not publicly traded.  The underlying assets in these funds (U.S. stock funds, non-U.S. stock funds, commodity funds, and short term investment funds) are publicly traded on exchanges and price quotes for the assets held by these funds are readily available. The Plan s holdings of common trust funds are classified as Level 2 investments. 

This category also includes investments in limited liability companies that invest in publicly-traded securities. The limited liability company investments are funds that invest in both long and short positions in convertible securities, stocks, commodities, and fixed income securities.  The underlying securities held by the funds are traded actively on public exchanges and price quotes for these investments are readily available.  Interests in the limited liability companies are classified as Level 2 investments. 

67 

As of December 31, 2015, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: 

[a] 

Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.     

As of December 31, 2014, the pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: 

[a] 

Other assets include accrued receivables and pending broker settlements.     

For the years ended December 31, 2015 and   2014  , there were   no   significant transfers in or out of Levels 1, 2, or 3. 

68 

The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2015: 

The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 investments) during 2014: 

Other Retirement Programs 

401(k)/Thrift Plan       We provide a defined contribution plan (401(k)/thrift plan) to eligible non-union and union employees for whom we make matching contributions.   We match 50 cents for each dollar contributed by employees up to the first six percent of compensation contributed. Our plan contributions were   $20   million in 2015,   $19   million in 2014, and   $18   million in 2013. 

Railroad Retirement System       All Railroad employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement System (the System).   Contributions made to the System are expensed as incurred and amounted to approximately   $749   million in 2015,   $711   million in 2014, and   $670   million in 2013. 

Collective Bargaining Agreements        Under collective bargaining agreements, we participate in multi-employer benefit plans that provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for eligible union employees.    Premiums paid under these plans are expensed as incurred and amounted to   $46   million in 2015,   $52   million in 2014, and   $57   million in 2013. 

7. Other Income 

Other income included the following for the years ended December 31: 

69 

8. Income Taxes 

Components of income tax expense were as follows for the years ended December 31: 

For the years ended December 31, reconciliations between statutory and effective tax rates are as follows: 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the expected future tax consequences of events that are reported in different periods for financial reporting and income tax purposes.  The majority of our deferred tax assets relate to deductions that already have been claimed for financial reporting purposes but not for tax purposes.  The majority of our deferred tax liabilities relate to differences between the tax bases and financial reporting amounts of our land and depreciable property, due to accelerated tax depreciation (including bonus depreciation), revaluation of assets in purchase accounting transactions, and differences in capitalization methods. 

70 

Deferred income tax (liabilities)/assets were comprised of the following at December 31: 

[a] 

Prior to the adoption of Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2015-17, deferred tax assets were required to be presented as current and non-current on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  In 2015, UP adopted ASU 2015-17 retrospectively.  Current deferred income tax assets at December 31, 2014 of   $277   million were reclassified from current to non-current for 2015 presentation.     

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized based on management s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2015 and 2014, there were   no   valuation allowances. 

Tax benefits are recognized only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits are tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards. 

A reconciliation of changes in unrecognized tax benefits liabilities/(assets) from the beginning to the end of the reporting period is as follows: 

We recognize interest and penalties as part of income tax expense. Total accrued liabilities for interest and penalties were $2 million and $6 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Total interest and penalties recognized as part of income tax expense (benefit) were $(3) million for 2015, $9 million for 2014, and $7 million for 2013. 

Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations have been completed and settled for all years prior to 2011, and the statute of limitations bars any additional tax assessments. UPC is not currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service. 

In the third quarter of 2015, UPC and the IRS signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters for tax  

71 

years 2009-2010. The settlement had an immaterial effect on our income tax expense. In connection with the settlement, UPC paid $10 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. 

In the fourth quarter of 2014, UPC and the IRS signed a closing agreement resolving all tax matters for tax years 2005-2008. The settlement had an immaterial effect on our income tax expense. In connection with the settlement, UPC paid $11 million in 2014. 

Several state tax authorities are examining our state income tax returns for years 2006 through 2012. 

We do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits to change significantly in the next 12 months. At December 31, 2015, we had a net unrecognized tax benefit liability of   $94   million. 

The portion of our unrecognized tax benefits that relates to permanent changes in tax and interest would reduce our effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits relate to tax positions for which only the timing of the benefit is uncertain. Recognition of the tax benefits with uncertain timing would reduce our effective tax rate only through a reduction of accrued interest and penalties.  The unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce our effective tax rate are as follows: 

9. Earnings Per Share 

The following table provides a reconciliation between basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31: 

Common stock options totaling   1.1   million,   0.4   million, and   0.5   million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices of these options exceeded the average market price of our common stock for the respective periods, and the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 

72 

10. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) 

Reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) were as follows (net of tax): 

[a] 

The accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) reclassification components are 1) prior service cost/(benefit) and 2) net actuarial loss which are both included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.  See Note 6 Retirement Plans for additional details.     

11. Accounts Receivable 

Accounts receivable includes freight and other receivables reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is based upon historical losses, credit worthiness of customers, and current economic conditions. At both December 31, 2015, and 2014, our accounts receivable were reduced by   $5   million.  Receivables not expected to be collected in one year and the associated allowances are classified as other assets in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  At December 31, 2015, and 2014, receivables classified as other assets were reduced by allowances of   $11   million and   $16   million, respectively. 

Receivables Securitization Facility     The Railroad maintains a   $650   million,   3  -year receivables securitization facility maturing in July 2017 under which it sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a   consolidated,   wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse, an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors. The investors have no recourse to the Railroad s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI. 

The amount outstanding under the facility was   $400   million at both December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014. The facility was supported by   $0.9   billion and   $1.2   billion of accounts receivable as collateral at December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014, respectively, which, as a retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 

The outstanding amount the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $650 million, may fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change. 

The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing benchmark and commercial paper rates, program fees paid to participating banks, commercial paper issuance costs, and fees of participating banks for unused commitment availability.  The costs of the  

73 

receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were   $5   million,   $4   million and   $5   million for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

12. Properties 

The following tables list the major categories of property and equipment, as well as the weighted-average estimated useful life for each category (in years): 

[a] 

Other roadway includes grading, bridges and tunnels, signals, buildings, and other road assets.     

Property and Depreciation     Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis.  Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers.  Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria.  Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track.  We use the group method of depreciation in  

74 

which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates.  The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items.    We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors. 

We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad assets by means of depreciation studies.  We perform depreciation studies at least every   three   years for equipment and every   six   years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property.  Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors: 

Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;     

Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;     

Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and     

Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.     

For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track.  It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail).  The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve).  Our depreciation studies for rail in high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives.  For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile.  For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies.  Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively. 

Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized.  The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies.  The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes.  Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets. 

For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) is unusual, (ii) is material in amount, and (iii) varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies.  A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations. 

When we purchase an asset, we capitalize all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use.  However, many of our assets are self-constructed.  A large portion of our capital expenditures is for replacement of existing track assets and other road properties, which is typically performed by our employees, and for track line expansion and other capacity projects.  Costs that are directly attributable to capital projects (including overhead costs) are capitalized.  Direct costs that are capitalized as part of self-constructed assets include material, labor, and work equipment.  Indirect costs are capitalized if they clearly relate to the construction of the asset. 

General and administrative expenditures are expensed as incurred. Normal repairs and maintenance are also expensed as incurred, while costs incurred that extend the useful life of an asset, improve the safety of our operations or improve operating efficiency are capitalized. These costs are allocated using  

75 

appropriate statistical bases. Total expense for repairs and maintenance   incurred was   $2.5   billion   for 2015,   $2.4   billion for 2014, and   $2.3   billion for 2013. 

Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. Amortization expense is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease. 

13. Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities 

[a]    Beginning in 2015, the timing of the dividend declaration and payable dates was aligned to occur within the same quarter. The 2015 dividends paid amount includes the fourth quarter 2014 dividend of   $438   million, which was paid on January 2, 2015, the first quarter 2015 dividend of   $484   million, which was paid on March 30, 2015, the second quarter 2015 dividend of   $479   million, which was paid on June 30, 2015, the third quarter 2015 dividend of   $476   million, which was paid on September 30, 2015, as well as the fourth quarter 2015 dividend of   $467   million, which was paid on December 30, 2015. 

14. Financial Instruments 

Strategy and Risk     We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances for other than trading purposes to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable interest rate and fuel price movements. 

Market and Credit Risk     We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2015, and 2014, we were   not   required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities. 

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges     We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities. 

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our  

76 

Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2015, and 2014, we had   no   interest rate fair value hedges outstanding. 

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges     We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. As of December 31, 2015, and 2014, we had   no   interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding. 

Earnings Impact     Our use of derivative financial instruments had   no   impact on pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013. 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments     The fair value of our short- and long-term debt was estimated using a market value price model, which utilizes applicable U.S. Treasury rates along with current market quotes on comparable debt securities. All of the inputs used to determine the fair market value of the Corporation s long-term debt are Level 2 inputs and obtained from an independent source. At December 31, 2015, the fair value of total debt was   $15.2   billion, approximately   $1.0   billion more than the carrying value.  At December 31, 2014, the fair value of total debt was   $13.0   billion, approximately   $1.5   billion more than the carrying value. The fair value of the Corporation s debt is a measure of its current value under present market conditions. It does not impact the financial statements under current accounting rules. At December 31, 2015, and 2014, approximately   $155   million and   $163   million, respectively, of debt securities contained call provisions that allow us to retire the debt instruments prior to final maturity, with the payment of fixed call premiums, or in certain cases, at par.  The fair value of our cash equivalents approximates their carrying value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. 

15. Debt 

Total debt as of December 31, 2015, and 2014, is summarized below: 

Debt Maturities       The following table presents aggregate debt maturities as of December 31, 2015, excluding market value adjustments: 

Equipment Encumbrances     Equipment with a carrying value of approximately   $2.6   billion and   $2.8   billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively, served as collateral for capital leases and other  

77 

types of equipment obligations in accordance with the secured financing arrangements utilized to acquire such railroad equipment. 

As a result of the merger of Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR) with and into UPRR on January 1, 1997, and pursuant to the underlying indentures for the MPRR mortgage bonds, UPRR must maintain the same value of assets after the merger in order to comply with the security requirements of the mortgage bonds. As of the merger date, the value of the MPRR assets that secured the mortgage bonds was approximately   $6.0   billion. In accordance with the terms of the indentures, this collateral value must be maintained during the entire term of the mortgage bonds irrespective of the outstanding balance of such bonds. 

Credit Facilities     At December 31, 2015, we had   $1.7   billion of credit available under the facility, which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did   not   draw on the facility during 2015. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior unsecured debt. The facility matures in May 2019 under a five-year term and requires UPC to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio.  

The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2015, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to   $41.4   billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had   $14.3   billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date.  Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a   $125   million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision. 

During 2015, we did not   issue   or   repay   any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2015, and 2014, we had no commercial paper   outstanding  . Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility. 

Dividend Restrictions     Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was   $13.6   billion and   $15.4   billion at December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings     We filed a new   shelf registration statement with the SEC that became effective on February 9, 2015. The Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to   $4.0   billion of debt securities, replacing the   $4.0   billion authorized under our shelf registration filed in February 2013, which was fully utilized after our January 2015 debt offering noted below. Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. 

During 2015, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our shelf registrations: 

78 

We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2015, we had remaining authority to issue up to   $2.2   billion of debt securities under our shelf registration. 

Equipment Trust     On   May 12, 2015  , UPRR consummated a pass-through (P/T) financing, whereby a P/T trust was created, which issued   $399   million of P/T trust certificates with a stated interest rate of   2.695%  . The P/T trust certificates will mature on   May 12, 2027  . The proceeds from the issuance of the P/T trust certificates were used to purchase equipment trust certificates to be issued by UPRR to finance the acquisition of   182   locomotives. The equipment trust certificates are secured by a lien on the locomotives. The $399 million is classified as debt due after one year in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 

Debt Exchange     On   August 21, 2013  , we exchanged   $1,170   million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between   2016   and   2040   (the Existing Notes) for   $439   million of   3.646%   notes (the New 2024 Notes) due   February 15, 2024   and   $700   million of   4.821%   notes (the New 2044 Notes) due   February 1, 2044  , plus cash consideration of approximately   $280   million in addition to   $8   million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes.  In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different.  The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes.    No   gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange.  Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately   $9   million and were included in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2013. 

The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged: 

Receivables Securitization Facility     As of both December 31, 2015 and 2014, we recorded   $400   million of borrowings under our receivables securitization facility, as secured debt. (See further discussion of our receivables securitization facility in Note 11). 

16. Variable Interest Entities 

We have entered into various lease transactions in which the structure of the leases contain variable interest entities (VIEs). These VIEs were created solely for the purpose of doing lease transactions (principally involving railroad equipment and facilities) and have no other activities, assets or liabilities outside of the lease transactions.  Within these lease arrangements, we have the right to purchase some or all of the assets at fixed prices. Depending on market conditions, fixed-price purchase options available in the leases could potentially provide benefits to us; however, these benefits are not expected to be significant. 

79 

We maintain and operate the assets based on contractual obligations within the lease arrangements, which set specific guidelines consistent within the railroad industry. As such, we have no control over activities that could materially impact the fair value of the leased assets. We do not hold the power to direct the activities of the VIEs and, therefore, do not control the ongoing activities that have a significant impact on the economic performance of the VIEs. Additionally, we do not have the obligation to absorb losses of the VIEs or the right to receive benefits of the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the VIEs. 

We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary and do not consolidate these VIEs because our actions and decisions do not have the most significant effect on the VIE s performance and our fixed-price purchase options are not considered to be potentially significant to the VIEs.  The future minimum lease payments associated with the VIE leases totaled   $2.6   billion as of December 31, 2015. 

17. Leases 

We lease certain locomotives, freight cars, and other property. The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 included   $2,273   million, net of   $1,189   million of accumulated depreciation, and   $2,454   million, net of   $1,210   million of accumulated depreciation, respectively, for properties held under capital leases. A charge to income resulting from the depreciation for assets held under capital leases is included within depreciation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income.   Future minimum lease payments for operating and capital leases with initial or remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2015, were as follows: 

Approximately   95%   of capital lease payments relate to locomotives. Rent expense for operating leases with terms exceeding one month was   $590   million in 2015,   $593   million in 2014, and   $618   million in 2013. When cash rental payments are not made on a straight-line basis, we recognize variable rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals and sub-rentals are not significant. 

18. Commitments and Contingencies 

Asserted and Unasserted Claims     Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. To the extent possible, we have recorded a liability where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters. 

Personal Injury     The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers  Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work. 

Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately   94%   of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and  

80 

approximately   6%   is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2015. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately   $318   million to   $345   million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.  Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation. 

Our personal injury liability activity was as follows: 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2015, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2015, and 2014. 

Asbestos     We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims.  This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions: 

The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.     

The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.     

The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.     

The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.     

Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately   22%   of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately   78%   related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2015.  Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately   $120   million to   $129   million.  We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. 

Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows: 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2015, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2015, and 2014.  The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of  

81 

claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants. 

Environmental Costs     We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified   290   sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes   31   sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government,   19   of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site. 

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Our environmental liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. 

Our environmental liability activity was as follows: 

The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. 

Insurance     The Company has a consolidated, wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary (the captive), that provides insurance coverage for certain risks including FELA claims and property coverage which are subject to reinsurance.  The captive entered into annual reinsurance treaty agreements that insure workers compensation, general liability, auto liability and FELA risk. The captive cedes a portion of its FELA exposure through the treaty and assumes a proportionate share of the entire risk.  The captive receives direct premiums, which are netted against the Company s premium costs in other expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The treaty agreements provide for certain protections against the risk of treaty participants  non-performance, and we do not believe our exposure to treaty participants  non-performance is material at this time. In the event the Company leaves the reinsurance program, the Company is not relieved of its primary obligation to the policyholders for activity prior to the termination of the treaty agreements. We record both liabilities and reinsurance receivables using an actuarial analysis based on historical experience in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. 

Guarantees     At December 31, 2015, and 2014, we were contingently liable for   $53   million and   $82   million in guarantees, respectively. We have recorded liabilities of   $0   and   $0.3   million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2015, and 2014, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our affiliated operations.   The final guarantee expires in 2022.   We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. 

Indemnities     We are contingently obligated under a variety of indemnification arrangements, although in some cases the extent of our potential liability is limited, depending on the nature of the transactions and  

82 

the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions. 

Gain Contingency       UPRR and Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines (SFPP, a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.) currently are engaged in a proceeding to resolve the fair market rent payable to UPRR commencing on January 1, 2004, for pipeline easements on UPRR rights-of-way (  Union Pacific Railroad Company vs. Santa Fe Pacific Pipelines, Inc., SFPP, L.P., Kinder Morgan Operating L.P.  D  Kinder Morgan G.P., Inc., et al., Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles, filed July 28, 2004  ). In February 2007, a trial began to resolve this issue, and in May 2012, the trial judge rendered an opinion establishing the fair market rent and entering judgment for back rent, including prejudgment interest. SFPP appealed the judgment. On November 5, 2014, the Second District Circuit Court of Appeal in California issued an opinion holding that UPRR was not entitled to collect rent from SFPP for easements on the portions of the property acquired solely through federal government land grants issued during the 1800s. The Appellate Court also reversed the award of prejudgment interest and remanded the case to the trial court. A favorable final judgment may materially affect UPRR's results of operations in the period of any monetary recoveries. Due to the uncertainty regarding the amount and timing of any recovery or any subsequent proceedings, we consider this a gain contingency and have not recognized any amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2015. 

19. Share Repurchase Program 

Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to   120   million shares of our common stock by   December 31, 2017  , replacing our previous repurchase program. As of December 31, 2015, we repurchased a total of   $16.0   billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007.    The table below represents shares repurchased under this repurchase program. 

Management's assessments of market conditions and other pertinent factors guide the timing   and volume of all repurchases.   Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees. 

From January 1, 2016, through February   4  , 2016, we repurchas  ed 3.  7   million sh  ares at an aggregate cost of   approximately $2  68   million. 

20. Related Parties 

UPRR and other North American railroad companies jointly own TTX Company (TTX).  UPRR has a   36.79%   economic and voting   interest in TTX while   the other   North American railroads own   the remaining interest.  In accordance with ASC 323   Investments - Equity Method and Joint Venture  , UPRR applies the equity method of accounting to   our   investment in TTX. 

TTX is a railcar pooling company that owns railcars and intermodal wells to serve   North America s railroads  .  TTX   assists   railroads   in   meet  ing   the   needs of their   customers by providing railcars in an efficient, pooled environment.  All railroads have the ability to utilize TTX railcars through car hire by renting railcars at stated rates. 

UPRR had   $830   million and   $795   million recognized as investments related to TTX in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.     TTX car hire expenses  

83 

of   $376   million in 2015,   $350   million in 2014, and   $326   million in 2013   are i  ncluded in equipment and other rents in our consolidated   statements of income  .  In addition, UPRR had accounts payable to TTX of   $61   million and   $53   million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

21. Selected Quarterly Data (Unaudited) 

Per share net income for the four quarters combined may not equal the per share net income for the year due to rounding. 

84 

It    em 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

None. 

It    em 9A.   Controls and Procedures 

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Executive Vice President   Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives. Based upon that evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 

Additionally, the CEO and CFO determined that there were no changes to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) during the last fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting. 

85 

MA    NAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 

The management of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)). The Corporation s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Corporation s management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. 

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. 

The Corporation s management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  . Based on our assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2015, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. 

The Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on the next page. 

February 4, 2016 

86 

R    EPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Union Pacific Corporation 

Omaha, Nebraska 

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of   Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation)   as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying   Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 of the Corporation and our report dated February 5, 2016 expressed  an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule. 

Omaha, Nebraska 

February 5, 2016 

87 

I    tem 9B.   Other Information 

None. 

PA    RT III 

Ite    m 10.   Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 

(a) 

Directors of Registrant.     

Information as to the names, ages, positions and offices with UPC, terms of office, periods of service, business experience during the past five years and certain other directorships held by each director or person nominated to become a director of UPC is set forth in the Election of Directors segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Information concerning our Audit Committee and the independence of its members, along with information about the audit committee financial expert(s) serving on the Audit Committee, is set forth in the Audit Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

(b) 

Executive Officers of Registrant.     

Information concerning the executive officers of UPC and its subsidiaries is presented in Part I of this report under Executive Officers of the Registrant and Principal Executive Officers of Subsidiaries. 

(c) 

Section 16(a) Compliance.     

Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth in the Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

(d) 

Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers of Registrant.     

The Board of Directors of UPC has adopted the UPC Code of Ethics for the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers (the Code). A copy of the Code may be found on the Internet at our website www.up.com/investor/governance. We intend to disclose any amendments to the Code or any waiver from a provision of the Code on our website. 

It    em 11.   Executive Compensation 

Information concerning compensation received by our directors and our named executive officers is presented in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Summary Compensation Table, Grants of Plan-Based Awards in Fiscal Year 2015, Outstanding Equity Awards at 2015 Fiscal Year-End, Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal Year 2015, Pension Benefits at 2015 Fiscal Year-End, Nonqualified Deferred Compensation at 2015 Fiscal Year-End, Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control and Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2015 segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. Additional information regarding compensation of directors, including Board committee members, is set forth in the By-Laws of UPC and the Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors, both of which are included as exhibits to this report. Information regarding the Compensation and Benefits Committee is set forth in the Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation and Compensation Committee Report segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

It    em 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Own  ers and Management and Related   Stockholder Matters 

Information as to the number of shares of our equity securities beneficially owned by each of our directors and nominees for director, our named executive officers, our directors and executive officers as a group, and certain beneficial owners is set forth in the Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

88 

The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which UPC common stock may be issued as of December 31, 2015: 

[2] 

Does not include the retention units or retention shares described above in footnote 1.     

Ite    m 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 

Information on related transactions is set forth in the Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation segments of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. We do not have any relationship with any outside third party that would enable such a party to negotiate terms of a material transaction that may not be available to, or available from, other parties on an arm s-length basis. 

Information regarding the independence of our directors is set forth in the Director Independence segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Ite    m 14.   Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

Information concerning the fees billed by our independent registered public accounting firm and the nature of services comprising the fees for each of the two most recent fiscal years in each of the following categories: (i) audit fees, (ii) audit-related fees, (iii) tax fees, and (iv) all other fees, is set forth in the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Fees and Services segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Information concerning our Audit Committee s policies and procedures pertaining to pre-approval of audit and non-audit services rendered by our independent registered public accounting firm is set forth in the Audit Committee segment of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 

89 

PA    RT IV 

Ite    m 15.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

(a)    Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and Exhibits: 

(1)    Financial Statements 

The financial statements filed as part of this filing are listed on the index to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, on   page         50    . 

(2)    Financial Statement Schedules 

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not applicable or not required or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, or notes thereto. 

(3)    Exhibits  

Exhibits are listed in the exhibit index beginning on page         93    . The exhibits include management contracts, compensatory plans and arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to the Form 10-K by Item 601 (10) (iii) of Regulation S-K. 

90 

SI    GNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 5th day of February, 2016. 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION  

By  

/s/ Lance M. Fritz  

Lance M. Fritz,  

Chairman, President and  

Chief Executive Officer  

Union Pacific Corporation  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below, on this 5th day of February, 2016, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. 

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER  

AND DIRECTOR:  

By  

/s/ Lance M. Fritz  

Lance M. Fritz,  

Chairman, President and  

Chief Executive Officer  

Union Pacific Corporation  

PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:  

By  

/s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

Robert M. Knight, Jr.,  

Executive Vice President - Finance  

and Chief Financial Officer  

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:  

By  

/s/ Todd M. Rynaski  

Todd M. Rynaski,  

Vice President and Controller  

DIRECTORS: 

Andrew H. Card, Jr.*  

Michael R. McCarthy*  

Erroll B. Davis, Jr.*  

Michael W. McConnell*  

David B. Dillon*  

Thomas F. McLarty III*  

Judith Richards Hope*  

Steven R. Rogel*  

Charles C. Krulak*  

Jose H. Villarreal*  

* By  

James J. Theisen, Jr.  

James J. Theisen, Jr., Attorney-in-fact  

91 

SCHEDULE II   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

92 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

Exhibit Index 

Exhibit No.  

Description  

Filed with this Statement  

10(a)  

Form of Performance Stock   Unit Agreement dated February 4  , 201  6  .  

10(b)  

Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives dated February   4  , 201  6  .  

10(c)  

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives dated February   4  , 201  6  .  

12  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

21  

List of the Corporation s significant subsidiaries and their respective states of incorporation.  

23  

Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Consent.  

24  

Powers of attorney executed by the directors of UPC.  

31(a)  

Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley   Act of 2002 -   Lance M. Fritz.  

31(b)  

Certifications Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), of the Exchange Act, as Adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   -   Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

32  

Certifications Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted pursuant to Section 906 of   the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 -   Lance M. Fritz and Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

101  

eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents submitted electronically: 101.INS (XBRL Instance Document), 101.SCH (XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document), 101.CAL (XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document), 101.LAB (XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document), 101.DEF (XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document) and 101.PRE (XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document). The following financial and related information from Union Pacific Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201  5    (  filed with the SEC on February 5  , 201  6  ), is formatted in XBRL and submitted electronically herewith:  (i) Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 201  5  , 201  4   and 201  3  , (ii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 201  5  , 201  4  , and 201  3  , (iii) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at December 31, 201  5   and December 31, 201  4  , (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 201  5  , 201  4   and 201  3  , (v) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Common Shareholders  Equity for the years ended December 31, 201  5  , 201  4   and 201  3  , and (vi) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Incorporated by Reference  

3(a)  

Restated Articles of Incorporation of UPC, as amended and restated through June 27, 2011, and as further amended May 15, 2014, are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014.  

3(b)  

By-Laws of UPC, as amended, effective   November 19, 2015  , are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Corpora  tion s Current Report on Form 8-K   dated   November 19, 2015  .  

93 

4(a)  

Indenture, dated as of December 20, 1996, between UPC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as successor to Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-18345).  

4(b)  

Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1999, between UPC and The Bank of New York, as successor to JP Morgan Chase Bank, formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-75989).  

4(c)  

Form of 2.250% Note due 20  20   is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated J  une 19, 2015  .  

4(d)  

Form of 3.  2  50% Note due 202  5   is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated J  une    1  9  , 201  5  .  

4(e  )  

Form of 3.250% Note due 2025 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   October 29  , 201  5  .  

4(f  )  

Form of 4.  0  50% Note due 2045 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   October 29, 2015  .  

4(g  )  

Form of   4.375  % Note due 20  65   is incorporated he  rein by reference to Exhibit 4.3   to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   October 29  , 2015.  
					 
						 Certain instruments evidencing long-term indebtedness of UPC are not filed as exhibits because the total amount of securities authorized under any single such instrument does not exceed 10% of the Corporation s total consolidated assets. UPC agrees to furnish the Commission with a copy of any such instrument upon request by the Commission.  

10(d)  

Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

10(e)  

Supplemental Thrift Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

10(f)  

Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended February 1, 2013, and March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

10(g)  

Supplemental Pension Plan for Officers and Managers (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation and Affiliates, as amended February 1, 2013, and March 1, 2013 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

10(h)  

Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan, as amended February 5, 2015, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

10(i)  

Union Pacific Corporation Executive Incentive Plan, effective May 5, 2005, amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

94 

10(j)  

Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

10(k)  

Deferred Compensation Plan (409A Non-Grandfathered Component) of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended December 17, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

10(l)  

1992 Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation, as amended as of January 28, 1993, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 16, 1993.  

10(m)  

Union Pacific Corporation 2000 Directors Plan, effective as of April 21, 2000, as amended November 16, 2006, January 30, 2007 and January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(j) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

10(n)  

Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Non-Grandfathered Component), effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

10(o)  

Union Pacific Corporation Stock Unit Grant and Deferred Compensation Plan for the Board of Directors (409A Grandfathered Component), as amended and restated in its entirety, effective as of January 1, 2009 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

10(p)  

Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan, effective May 16, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Corporation s Form S-8 dated May 17, 2013.  

10(q)  

UPC 2004 Stock Incentive Plan amended March 1, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

10(r)  

Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996, among UPC, UP Holding Company, Inc., Union Pacific Merger Co. and Southern Pacific Rail Corporation (SP) is incorporated herein by reference to Annex J to the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus included in Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64707).  

10(s)  

Agreement, dated September 25, 1995, among UPC, UPRR, Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MPRR), SP, Southern Pacific Transportation Company (SPT), The Denver   Rio Grande Western Railroad Company (D RGW), St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company (SLSRC) and SPCSL Corp. (SPCSL), on the one hand, and Burlington Northern Railroad Company (BN) and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (Santa Fe), on the other hand, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33 64707).  

10(t)  

Supplemental Agreement, dated November 18, 1995, between UPC, UPRR, MPRR, SP, SPT, D RGW, SLSRC and SPCSL, on the one hand, and BN and Santa Fe, on the other hand, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to UPC s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33 64707).  

95 

10(u)  

The Pension Plan for Non-Employee Directors of UPC, as amended January 25, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.  

10(v)  

Charitable Contribution Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Union Pacific Corporation is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(z) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.  

10(w)  

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

10(x)  

Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

10(y)  

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

10(z)  

Form of Stock Unit Agreement for Executives is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

10(aa)  

Form of 2013 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

10(bb)  

Form of 2014 Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

10(cc)  

Form of 201  5   Long Term Plan Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201  4  .  

10(dd)  

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Directors is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.  

10(ee)  

Executive Incentive Plan (2005)   Deferred Compensation Program, dated December 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.  

99  

Form of U.S. $1,700,000,000 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of May 21, 2014, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99(a) to the Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,     2014.  

96 

<EX-10.(A)>
 2
 unp-20151231ex10a6f5b90.htm
 EX-10.(A)

Exhibit 10(a)

Exhibit 1  0(a) 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS 

FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the number of Stock Units specified below (the  Award ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan and described in this Grant Notice, and the Union Pacific Corporation Long Term Plan (the  Long Term Plan ) approved and adopted by the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ), each as amended from time to time.  Each Stock Unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the Company s common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions, and the Long Term Plan.  This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and the Long Term Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions. 

Name of Participant:  

FIRST_NAME  LAST_NAME  
					 
						 ID: EMPLOYEE_ID  

Grant Date:  

2/4/2016  

Grant Number:  

OPTION_NUMBER  

Maximum Number of  Stock Units subject to the Award:  
					 
						 The Stock Unit Target Award (amount of stock units granted at Target is half the amount shown).    The amount of stock units shown is the  maximum  number of shares that the Participant is eligible to receive in accordance with the program design shown in the Long Term Plan Summary.  The actual number of shares paid, if any, depends on the achievement level of the applicable performance criteria.  

X,XXX  

Restriction Period:  

3 years  

Restriction Period Commencement Date:  

2/4/2016  

Restriction Period Termination Date:  

2/4/2019  

By electronically accepting this Award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions, and the Long Term Plan (including, but not limited to, the Committee s discretionary authority under the Long Term Plan to determine the number of Stock Units payable with respect to the Award).  The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including,  

without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Stock Units via Company website or other electronic delivery. 

THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE AWARD AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  

2 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR 

PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS 

These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Award of performance stock units granted pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which are evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions.  In addition to these Standard Terms and Conditions, the performance stock units shall be subject to the terms of the Plan and the Long Term Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by reference.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan. 

PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS 

1. 
			 TERMS OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS     

Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) an award of a number of performance stock units (the  Award  or the  Stock Units ) specified in the Grant Notice.  Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive (i) one share of the Company s common stock, $2.50 par value per share (the  Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), provided the applicable Performance Criteria described below have been satisfied.  The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan, each as amended from time to time.  For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary. 

2. 
			 VESTING OF PERFORMANCE STOCK UNITS     

The Award shall not be vested as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice and shall be forfeitable until the end of the Restriction Period, unless otherwise provided under these Standard Terms and Conditions.  After the end of the Restriction Period, subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan, and to the extent the Performance Criteria described below have been satisfied, the Award shall become vested as of the Restriction Period Termination Date set forth in the Grant Notice with respect to that number of Stock Units determined by the Committee to be paid pursuant to the Award.  Unless the Committee shall determine otherwise, a period in which the Participant is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company shall count toward satisfaction of the Restriction Period. 

3. 
			 PERFORMANCE CRITERIA     

The Performance Criteria are annual Return on Invested Capital ("ROIC") and relative Operating Income Growth ( OIG ).  However, such Performance Criteria is of no force and effect unless and until the Company has operating income ( Operating Income ) in one or more of fiscal years 2016, 2017 or 2018.  The definition and calculation of annual ROIC, relative OIG and Operating Income shall be determined in accordance with the Long Term Plan. 

The Participant may earn Stock Units during the Restriction Period based on the Company s satisfaction of the Performance Criteria in accordance with the ROIC targets and payout schedule and relative OIG modifier approved by the Committee, subject to Section 6(ii) hereof   and the Committee s discretion under the Long Term Plan to determine the number of Stock Units payable with respect to the Award  .  For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2016, the Participant may earn up to one-third of the Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice based on the first fiscal year (2016) of ROIC performance achieved.  For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017, the Participant may earn up to a total of two-thirds of the Stock Unit Target Award as  

3 

shown on the Grant Notice (less any Stock Units earned in the first fiscal year) based on the average of the first two fiscal years (2016 and 2017) of ROIC performance achieved.  For the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, the Participant may earn up to two times the Stock Unit Target Award as shown on the Grant Notice (less any Stock Units earned in the first two fiscal years) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2016, 2017, and 2018) of ROIC performance achieved and the relative OIG modifier (which is based on the Company s OIG performance over the three fiscal year period as compared to the OIG performance over that period of the constituent companies of the S P 500 Industrials Index as set forth in the Long Term Plan). 

4. 
			 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS     

For all dividend record dates occurring while the Participant is employed and between the date that Stock Units are earned and the earlier of the date the Stock Units are forfeited or the date that shares are delivered to the Participant, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those Stock Units which have been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof.  For this purpose, Stock Units are earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof for a fiscal year on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing the Performance Criteria achieved for such fiscal year, provided the Company has Operating Income in that fiscal year, or for fiscal years 2017 and 2018, the previous fiscal year.  Notwithstanding the foregoing: 

(i) 
			 If the Participant earns Stock Units in accordance with Section 3 hereof that are payable to the Participant as specified in Section 6(ii) hereof, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant, the Participant s estate or beneficiary, as applicable, shall further receive Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such Stock Units for all dividend record dates occurring after the Participant is Separated from Service or determined to be disabled under the provisions of an applicable long-term disability plan of the Company, through the date the shares are delivered as provided in and subject to the adjustment described in Section 6(ii) hereof; and     

(ii) 
			 Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company, but is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with an applicable leave of absence policy adopted by the Company, for all dividend record dates occurring while the Participant is on such leave of absence and between the date that Stock Units are earned and the earlier of the date the Stock Units are forfeited or the date that shares are delivered to the Participant, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments for those Stock Units which have been earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof  .     

Any such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments (such date to be on or after the date the corresponding Stock Units are earned); provided, however, that (i) if the Participant has elected to defer receipt of such Stock Units in accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan of Union Pacific Corporation (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ),   Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such earned and deferred Stock Units which relate to dividends paid on and after the date of the deferral of such Stock Units (i.e., the date that the Stock Units would have been payable to the Participant under the Plan had such Stock Units not been deferred under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan) shall be reinvested as part of the Award Account under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, and shall be deferred for payment at the same time as the Award Account is paid under the terms of the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan and (ii) if such Dividend Equivalent Payments relate to Stock Units for which payment is delayed as described in Section 6(i) hereof, on the date such Stock Units are paid.   

4 

5. 
			 RESTRICTIONS     

Unless provided otherwise by the Committee, the following restrictions apply to the Stock Units: 

(i)    The Participant shall be entitled to delivery of the shares of Common Stock as specified in Section 6 hereof;  

(ii)     None of the Stock Units may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, or otherwise encumbered or disposed of;  

(iii)      The Participant s right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earlier of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company, except as provided in Section 4(ii) and Section 6(ii) hereof, or the Participant s receipt of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof;  

(iv)      All of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company in the event of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company without having a right to delivery of shares of Common Stock under Section 6 hereof; and 

(v)      Any Stock Units not earned as of the Restriction Period Termination Date shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company. 

6. 
			 ACCELERATION/LAPSE OF RESTRICTION PERIOD     

Unless provided otherwise by   the Committee  , the Stock Units shall be treated as follows: 

(i)    Following the end of the Restriction Period and provided the Participant has remained   continuously employed by the Company through the Restriction Period Termination Date and absent any Change of Control before the Restriction Period   Termination Date in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units  , shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on the achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company's third party stock plan administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2016, 2017 or 2018.  The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(i) shall be made to the Participant within thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period when the Company determines that the delivery of shares hereunder would violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements and (B) the date on which shares are delivered to the Participant (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and address tax withholding and/or other administrative matters; provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units or, if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) shall in no event be later than the last day of the calendar year that includes the Restriction Period Termination Date.  

(ii)    If the Participant: (A) has a Separation from Service with the Company due to (1) death or (2) retiring after having attained age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s pension plan ( Retirement )   (including a Separation from Service described in Section 6(iv) hereof on or after the date the Participant satisfies the age and service criteria for  

5 

Retirement)  ; or (B) is determined to be disabled under the provisions of an applicable long-term disability plan of the Company ( Disability ) (each a  Lapse Event ), prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date and prior to a Change in Control   in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units  , the Participant, the Participant s estate or the Participant s beneficiary, as applicable   (each a  Payee )  , shall be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on the average of all three fiscal years (2016, 2017 and 2018) of the applicable ROIC performance achieved (and, with respect to fiscal year 2018, the relative OIG modifier) prorated based on the number of fiscal years in the Restriction Period during which the Participant remained continuously employed by the Company until September 30  th   of that year (  e.g.  , if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2016, then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 33 1/3% of the earned Stock Units; if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2017, then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for 66 2/3% of the earned Stock Units; and if the Participant s Lapse Event occurs on or after September 30, 2018, then the Payee would be entitled to receive payment for  100% of the earned Stock Units), provided that the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2016, 2017 or 2018.  The Payee shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments respecting all Stock Units earned in accordance with Section 3 hereof through the end of the fiscal year ending before the Participant s Lapse Event for all dividend record dates occurring after the Participant s Lapse Event (or, if later, the date the Stock Units for a fiscal year are earned) and thereafter during the Restriction Period until the Payee receives Common Stock under this Section 6(ii), notwithstanding the Participant s Lapse Event.  The Committee shall adjust the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to the Payee and/or the total number of shares of Common Stock paid to the Payee following the end of the Restriction Period so that the total amount of such Dividend Equivalent Payments made to the Payee does not exceed the amount that would have been made based on the number of Stock Units which are earned as set forth in this Section 6(ii).  The payment of the Stock Units earned under this Section 6(ii) shall be made within thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar year that includes the Restriction Period Termination Date.  A Participant who has a Lapse Event and subsequently returns to employment with the Company before the end of the Restriction Period shall not be eligible to earn additional Stock Units beyond those described in this Section 6(ii).  

(iii)      Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, prior to the termination of the Participant s employment for any reason, in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units and such Change in Control occurs prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date,       shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of each fiscal year ending prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s     third party administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2016, 2017 or 2018 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the calendar year in which the Change in Control     occurs.      No additional Stock Units granted as part of the Award may be earned following the Change in Control.      Shares of Common Stock to which the Participant is entitled pursuant to this Section 6(iii) shall be delivered as soon as practicable following the date on which the Change in Control occurs,   but in no event later than two and one-half (2 ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the     Change in Control occurs.     

(iv)      If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service because such Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company (other than a termination as a result of the Participant s Disability, cause or gross misconduct as determined by the Committee), within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control   in which   the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction assumes or continues the outstanding Stock Units     and such Separation from Service occurs prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date and prior to the  

6 

Participant   having satisfied the age and service criteria for Retirement prior to such Separation from Service,     shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Stock Units which are     earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of each fiscal year ending prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control and through the end of the most recent fiscal quarter ending prior to the date of the Change in Control shall be delivered to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s third party administrator, if applicable) free of all restrictions, provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the calendar years 2016, 2017 or 2018 and further provided that any such calendar year precedes the   calendar year in which   the Change in Control occurs.  The payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(iv) shall be made as soon as practicable following the Participant s Separation from Service, but in no event later than two and one-half (2 ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Separation from Service occurs.  

(v)      Except as otherwise provided in this Section 6, all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless the Participant remains in the continuous employment of the Company (such continuous employment shall, for this purpose, include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company) until the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the outstanding Stock Units.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, if it finds that the circumstances in the particular case so warrant, allow a Participant who ceases to be so continuously employed and has a Separation from Service prior to the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or such Change in Control to retain some or all of the Stock Units     which are earned (as determined by the Committee) based on achievement of the applicable Performance Criteria through the end of the fiscal year ending prior to the year in which the Participant incurs such Separation from Service  ,    provided the Company has Operating Income in one or more of the fiscal years 2016, 2017 or 2018 and further provided that any such fiscal year precedes the year in which the Participant Separates from Service.  In such event, the payment of the Stock Units under this Section 6(v) shall be as soon as practicable following the date on which the Committee authorizes such payment, but in no event later than two and one-half (2 ) months following the end of the calendar year that includes the date on which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs.     

(vi)    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of payment of shares underlying the Stock Units to the extent and according to the terms, if any, provided by the Deferred Compensation Plan.  If the Participant does so elect to defer payment of shares underlying the Stock Units, such payments will be made in accordance with the Deferred Compensation Plan.  

PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY 

By electronically accepting the Award and these   Standard Terms and Conditions  , the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following. 

7. 
			 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS     

The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential.  This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any customers thereof ("Confidential Information").  The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ("Trade Secrets"). 

7 

8. 
			 TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS     

The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or has had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials. The Participant agrees that any unauthorized disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct. 

9. 
			 AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION     

The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Sr. HR Officer"), or unless ordered by a court or government agency,   (i)     divulge, use, furnish or   disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person    , whether or not a competitor of the Company,   any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

10. 
			 PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC     

(i)  The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 12, this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other railroad to the detriment of the Company.  The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company.  Therefore, by electronically accepting the Award and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another railroad he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her intention to accept such employment or affiliation.  The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or he    r proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

(ii)  If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution.  The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 12, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 9 or 10 above, he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received)  

8 

which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such promise made in Section 9 or 10, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise.  The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company.  The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to him or her under the Award absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 9 and 10 above. 

NO DIRECT COMPETITION 

By electronically accepting the Award and these   Standard Terms and Conditions  , the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following. 

12. 
			 NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION     

The Participant agrees that   for a period of one year   following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below.  The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business.  For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services   directly or   indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates.    This Section 12 is not intended to prevent the Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded   him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Award absent his or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 12. 

13. 
			 ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF     

The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 9, 10 and 12.  The Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she are bound by such restraints.  The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 9, 10 and 12, the damage to the Company would be irreparable.  The Participant therefore agrees that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without  

9 

limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 11 and 14, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants.  The Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 9, 10 and 12 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law. 

14. 
			 VIOLATION OF PROMISES     

The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 12, then he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) granted to him or her by the Grant Notice which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with the promises he or she made in Section 12.  The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company.  The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. 

GENERAL 

The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Award or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal  Arbitration Act, except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and the law of tort.  The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury.  The foregoing not to the contrary, the Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 or 12 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction. 

This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates.  The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court.  All expenses of the arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award.  The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise. 

10 

If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect. 

17. 
			 CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION     

All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine.  The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions.  Sections 10(ii) and 12 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   

The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan. 

19. 
			 RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES     

The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Common Stock issued in respect of vested Stock Units, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and other holders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.  

The Company shall not deliver shares in respect of any Stock Units unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations.  Unless the Participant pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the delivery of the Common Stock, withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the vesting of the Stock Units (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company).  The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the delivery of the Stock Units from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages). 

21. 
			 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARD     

The Participant understands, acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise directly or indirectly encumbered or disposed of prior to the payment of the Common Stock to the Participant as provided in Section 6 hereof. 

11 

22. 
			 RESTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL RESULTS     

By electronically accepting this Award, the Participant agrees that he or she will return such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company as determined by the Committee in its exclusive discretion, which shall be final, conclusive and binding upon the Company and the Participant.  The Committee will exercise its discretion only in the event that the Committee s certification of the level of ROIC and OIG was based on financial results subsequently revised by a restatement of such financial results and only to the extent that such restated financial results would have entitled the Participant to a lesser award of Common Stock under the Performance Criteria. 

23. 
			 LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS     

Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan, the Long Term Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon vesting of the Stock Units.  Nothing in the Plan, the Long Term Plan, the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason. 

24. 
			 OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED     

The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and the Long Term Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Stock Units.  Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the Stock Units are superseded. 

12 

</EX-10.(A)>

<EX-10.(B)>
 3
 unp-20151231ex10b1a89f4.htm
 EX-10.(B)

Exhibit 10(b)

Exhibit 1  0(  b  ) 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

STOCK UNITS 

FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the number of Stock Units specified below (the  Award ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan described in this Grant Notice, and, as applicable, the Union Pacific Corporation Key Employee Continuity Plan (the  Key Employee Continuity Plan ), each as amended from time to time.  Each Stock Unit subject to this Award represents the right to receive one share of the Company s common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions.  This Award is granted pursuant to the Plan and, as applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions. 

Name of Participant:  

FIRST_NAME  LAST_NAME  
					 
						 ID: EMPLOYEE_ID  

Grant Date:  

2/4/2016  

Grant Number:  

OPTION_NUMBER  

Number of Stock Units subject to the Award:  

X,XXX  

Restriction Period:  

4 years  

Restriction Period Commencement Date:  

2/4/2016  

Restriction Period Termination Date:  

2/4/2020  

By electronically accepting this Award, Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees that this Award shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan, the Standard Terms and Conditions and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan (including, but not limited to, the Key Employee Continuity Plan s requirement that the Participant execute a general release of employment-related claims).  The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Stock Units via Company website or other electronic delivery. 

THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE AWARD AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS. 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR 

STOCK UNITS 

These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Award of stock units granted pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which are evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions.  In addition to these Standard Terms and Conditions, the stock units shall be subject to the terms of the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by this reference.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan. 

STOCK UNITS 

1. 

TERMS OF STOCK UNITS     

Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) an award of a number of stock units (the  Award  or the  Stock Units ) specified in the Grant Notice.  Each Stock Unit represents the right to receive (i) one share of the Company s common stock, $2.50 par value per share (the  Common Stock ) and (ii) a payment in cash equal to the amount of dividends that would have been payable on one share of Common Stock from time to time ( Dividend Equivalent Payments ), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, each as amended from time to time.  For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary. 

2. 
			 VESTING OF STOCK UNITS     

The Award shall not be vested as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice and shall be forfeitable unless and until otherwise vested pursuant to the terms of the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the terms of the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan.  After the end of the Restriction Period, subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, if applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the Award shall become vested as of the Restriction Period Termination Date described in the Grant Notice with respect to that number of Stock Units as set forth in the Grant Notice.  Unless the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Committee ) shall determine otherwise, a period of time in which the Participant is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary shall count toward satisfaction of the Restriction Period. 

3. 
			 DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT RIGHTS     

The Participant will have the rights of a shareholder only after shares of Common Stock have been issued to the Participant following the Restriction Period Termination Date   as described in the Grant Notice (or such earlier date as otherwise provided in Section 5(i) or Section 5(iii) hereof) and satisfaction of all other conditions to the issuance of those shares.  Stock Units shall not entitle the Participant to any rights of a shareholder of Common Stock and there are no voting rights with respect to the Stock Units.  During the Restriction Period and during any period following the end of the Restriction Period in which delivery of shares of Common Stock is: (i) deferred pursuant to the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan; or (ii) delayed in accordance with Section 5(i) hereof; unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments.  Such Dividend Equivalent Payments shall be made on the payment date established by the Board of Directors for the underlying dividend payments; provided, however, that (i) if the Participant has elected to defer receipt of the Stock  

2 

Units in accordance with the terms of the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, Dividend Equivalent Payments with respect to such deferred Stock Units which relate to dividends paid on and after the date of the deferral of such Stock Units (i.e., the date that the Stock Units would have been payable to the Participant under the Plan had such Stock Units not been deferred under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan) shall be reinvested as part of the Award Account under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan, and shall be deferred for payment at the same time as the Award Account is paid under the terms of the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan; and (ii) the Company may delay payment of a Dividend Equivalent Payment if the Company reasonably anticipates that its deduction with respect to such payment would not be permitted by application of Internal Revenue Code section 162(m).  A Dividend Equivalent Payment that is delayed as described in the preceding sentence (or if such Dividend Equivalent Payment is invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units), shall be paid to the Participant as soon as reasonably practicable following the date the Company anticipates that its deduction with respect to the payment of the Dividend Equivalent Payment would no longer be restricted due to the application of Internal Revenue Code section 162(m).  Except as provided above, a Participant s right to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company at the earliest of the Participant s Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary, payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof or at the Restriction Period Termination Date, except that: 

(A) 
			  in the event the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2016, and is age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan at any time during the Restriction Period during the Participant s period of continuous employment (satisfaction of both the September 30, 2016 continuous employment requirement and age and service requirements is known as  Retirement Status ), such Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance with this Section 3 hereof until the earlier of the Restriction Period Termination Date or payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof, notwithstanding any Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary on or after attaining Retirement Status; and     

(B) 
			  in the event the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary, but is on a leave of absence during the Restriction Period   in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary  , such Participant shall be entitled to receive Dividend Equivalent Payments in accordance with this Section 3 hereof during the period of such leave of absence until the earlier of the date that is the end of such leave of absence, the Restriction Period Termination Date or payment of the Common Stock under Section 5 hereof, notwithstanding any Separation from Service with the Company or a Subsidiary as a result of such leave of absence  .     

4. 
			 ACCELERATION/LAPSE OF RESTRICTION PERIOD     

Unless provided otherwise by   the Committee  , the Stock Units shall be treated as follows in connection with the Participant s Separation from Service: 

(i)     If the Participant has a Separation from Service prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date by reason of the Participant s death, the Stock Units shall immediately vest, all restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full to the Participant s beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, in accordance with Section 5 hereof. 

(ii) In the event the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan, the Stock Units shall immediately vest, all restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full in accordance with Section 5 hereof. 

(iii)   If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service because such Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a termination as a  

3 

result of disability, cause or gross misconduct as determined by the Committee), within two (2) years following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the Stock Units shall immediately vest and the remaining restrictions with respect to the Stock Units, including any remaining Restriction Period, shall lapse and such Stock Units shall be paid in full in accordance with Section 5 hereof. 

(iv)   In the event of a Change in Control prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the Stock Units upon the Change in Control, the Restriction Period and all other restrictions applicable to such Stock Units shall lapse immediately prior to the Change in Control and   such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof  . 

(v) In the event the Participant has attained Retirement Status (within the meaning of Section 3(A) hereof) at any time during the Restriction Period that is on or after September 30, 2016 and during the Participant s period of continuous employment, the   Restriction Period   shall lapse   on the date the Participant attains Retirement Status and   such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof  .   

(vi) Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraphs (i) through (v), if the Participant is an Eligible Employee (within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan) in the Key Employee Continuity Plan and incurs a Severance within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the Participant s Stock Units shall vest and be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, including without limitation the requirement that the Participant execute an appropriate general release of employment-related claims. 

(vii)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 hereof, all of the Stock Units shall be forfeited and all of the Participant s rights to such Stock Units and the right to receive Common Stock shall terminate without further obligation on the part of the Company unless the Participant remains in the continuous employment of the Company or a Subsidiary (such continuous employment shall, for this purpose, include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary) for the entire Restriction Period.  Notwithstanding the foregoing  , the Committee may, if it finds that the circumstances in the particular case so warrant, allow a Participant who ceases to be so continuously employed and has a Separation from Service prior to the Restriction Period Termination Date to retain some or all of the Stock Units.  In such event, the Restriction Period and all other restrictions with respect to the retained Stock Units shall lapse, and such Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 5 hereof. 

5. 
			 PAYMENT OF STOCK UNITS     

(i) Subject to Section 25 of the Plan and Sections 4, 5(ii) and 5(iii) hereof, vested Stock Units shall be settled by the delivery to the Participant (through the Participant s account at the Company s designated third party stock administrator) or the Participant s beneficiary or estate, as the case may be, of one share of Common Stock per vested Stock Unit: 

(A) except as provided in (B) below, within 30 days of the   first to occur of the Restriction Period Termination Date or the Participant s right to payment arising under Section 4(i), 4(ii), 4(iii), 4(iv) or 4(vii) hereof; 

(B) if the Participant s Stock Units are determined to constitute  deferred compensation  subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A, such Stock Units shall be paid to the Participant within thirty (30) days of the Restriction Period Termination Date in the event that the Participant s right to payment: 

4 

(1) 

under Section 4(ii) or Section 4(iv) hereof arises before the Restriction Period Termination Date and after the date the Restriction Period lapses in accordance with Section 4(v) hereof;     

(2)      arises under Section 4(iii) hereof; or  

(3)      arises under Section 4(vii) hereof  . 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock during any period in which the Company reasonably anticipates that the delivery of shares hereunder would: (A) violate any federal, state or other applicable laws and/or may issue shares subject to any restrictive legend that, as determined by the Company s counsel, is necessary to comply with securities or other regulatory requirements; or (B)   result in the reduction or elimination of the Company s deduction under Internal Revenue Code section 162(m) with respect to such delivery of shares  , and (ii) the date on which shares are delivered to the Participant (and any Dividend Equivalent Payment thereon) may include a delay to provide the Company such time as it determines appropriate to calculate and address tax withholding and to address other administrative matters; provided, however, that delivery of shares of Common Stock underlying Stock Units (and any Dividend Equivalent Payments on such Stock Units, or if such Dividend Equivalent Payments are invested in additional Stock Units at the Company s discretion, the shares of Common Stock underlying such additional Stock Units) for Stock Units that are determined to be exempt from the requirements of Internal Revenue Code       409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies the  short-term deferral  exception described in Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-1(b)(4) and for Stock Units subject to Internal Revenue Code section 409A shall in all events be made at a time that satisfies Treas. Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(7). 

(ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Participant may elect to defer receipt of payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units pursuant to the terms of, and in accordance with the provisions of, the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan.  If the Participant elects to defer payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units, such payment will be made in accordance with the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan. 

(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is an Eligible Employee (within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan) in the Key Employee Continuity Plan and incurs a Severance within the meaning of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, the payment of Common Stock underlying the Stock Units shall be paid in accordance with Section 2.4 of the Key Employee Continuity Plan, provided the Participant has executed a general release of employment-related claims in the form prescribed by the Key Employee Continuity Plan. 

PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY 

By electronically accepting the Award and these   Standard Terms and Conditions  , the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following. 

6. 
			 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS     

The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential.  This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ("Confidential Information").  The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ("Trade Secrets"). 

5 

7. 
			 TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS     

The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials.  By electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that any unauthorized disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct. 

8. 
			 AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION     

The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Sr. HR Officer"), or unless ordered by a court or government agency,   (i)     divulge, use, furnish or   disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person    , whether or not a competitor of the Company,   any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

9. 
			 PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC     

(i)  The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 11 ( Entity ), this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other Entity to the detriment of the Company.  The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company.  Therefore, by electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another Entity he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her intention to accept such employment or affiliation.  The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

(ii)  If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution.  The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 11, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 8 or 9 above, he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the market value of any shares of Common Stock received)  

6 

which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such promise made in Section 8 or 9, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise.  The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company.  The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to him or her under the Grant Notice absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 8 and 9 above. 

NO DIRECT COMPETITION 

By electronically accepting the Award and these   Standard Terms and Conditions  , the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following. 

11. 
			 NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION     

The Participant agrees that   for a period of one year   following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below.  The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business.  For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or   indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates.    This Section 11 is not intended to prevent the Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Grant Notice absent his or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 11. 

12. 
			 ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF     

The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 8, 9 and 11.  The Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she are bound by such restraints.  The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 8, 9 and 11, the damage to the Company would be irreparable.  The Participant therefore agrees that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 10 and 13, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her  

7 

breach or threaten breach of said covenants.  The Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 8, 9 and 11 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law. 

13. 
			 VIOLATION OF PROMISES     

The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 11, then he or she will be required to immediately deliver to the Company any shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) granted to him or her by the Grant Notice which he or she received at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with the promises he or she made in Section 11.  The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company.  The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. 

GENERAL 

The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal  Arbitration Act, except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 or 11 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and the law of tort.  The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury.  The foregoing not to the contrary, the Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9 or 11 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction. 

This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates.  The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court.  All expenses of the arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award.  The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise. 

8 

If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect. 

16. 
			 CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION     

All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine.  The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions.  Sections 9(ii) and 11 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   

The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan. 

18. 
			 RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES     

The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Common Stock issued in respect of vested Stock Units, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and other holders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.  

The Company shall not deliver shares in respect of any Stock Units unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations.  Unless the Participant pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the delivery of the Common Stock, withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the vesting of the Stock Units (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company).  The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the delivery of the Stock Units from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages). 

20. 
			 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARD     

The Participant understands, acknowledges and agrees that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise directly or indirectly encumbered or disposed of prior to the payment of the Common Stock to the Participant as provided in Section 5 hereof. 

21. 
			 LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO STOCK UNITS     

Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan, the Key Employee Continuity Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions  

9 

except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon vesting of the Stock Units.  Nothing in the Plan, in the Key Employee Continuity Plan, in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason. 

22. 
			 OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED     

The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Plan and, as applicable, the Key Employee Continuity Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Stock Units.  Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the Stock Units are superseded. 

10 

</EX-10.(B)>

<EX-10.(C)>
 4
 unp-20151231ex10ca050a1.htm
 EX-10.(C)

Exhibit 10(c)

Exhibit 1  0(  c  ) 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

GRANT NOTICE FOR 2013 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION 

FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants to Participant named below the nonqualified stock option (the  Option ) to purchase any part or all of the number of shares of its common stock, par value $2.50 (the  Common Stock ), that are covered by this Option, as specified below, at the Exercise Price per share specified below and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Grant Notice, the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) and the Standard Terms and Conditions (the  Standard Terms and Conditions ) adopted under such Plan, and provided to the Participant, each as amended from time to time.  This Option is granted pursuant to the Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the Standard Terms and Conditions. 

This Option is not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

By electronically accepting this Option,  the Participant acknowledges that he or she has received and read, and agrees that this Option shall be subject to, the terms of this Grant Notice, the Plan and the Standard Terms and Conditions.  The Participant also hereby consents to the delivery of information (including, without limitation, information required to be delivered to the Participant pursuant to applicable securities laws) regarding the Company and the Subsidiaries, the Plan, and the Option via Company website or other electronic delivery. 

THE PARTICIPANT WILL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACCEPTED THE OPTION AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS IF THE PARTICIPANT DOES NOT OBJECT IN WRITING WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS FOLLOWING DELIVERY OF THIS GRANT NOTICE AND THE STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS. 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR   NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION 

These Standard Terms and Conditions apply to the Option granted pursuant to the Union Pacific Corporation 2013 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), which is identified as nonqualified stock option and is evidenced by a Grant Notice that specifically refers to these Standard Terms and Conditions.  In addition to these Terms and Conditions, the Option shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, which are incorporated into these Standard Terms and Conditions by this reference.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan. 

OPTION 

1. 

TERMS OF OPTION     

Union Pacific Corporation (the  Company ), has granted to the Participant named in the Grant Notice provided to said Participant herewith (the  Grant Notice ) a nonqualified stock option (the  Option ) to purchase up to the number of shares of the Company s common stock (the  Common Stock ), set forth in the Grant Notice.  The exercise price per share and the other terms and conditions of the Option are set forth in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions (as amended from time to time), and the Plan.  For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Grant Notice, any reference to the Company shall include a reference to any Subsidiary. 

2. 

NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION     

The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) and will be interpreted accordingly. 

3. 

EXERCISE OF OPTION     

The Option shall not be exercisable as of the Grant Date set forth in the Grant Notice.  After the Grant Date, to the extent not previously exercised, and subject to termination or acceleration as provided in these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Plan, the Option shall be exercisable only to the extent it becomes vested, as described in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions and/or the terms of the Plan, to purchase up to that number of shares of Common Stock as set forth in the Grant Notice, provided that (except as may be provided otherwise in Section 4 below) the Participant remains employed with the Company and does not experience a termination of employment.   

The exercise price (the  Exercise Price ) of the Option is set forth in the Grant Notice.  The Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock until the Participant shall have paid the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock.  To exercise the Option (or any part thereof), the Participant shall deliver to the Company appropriate notice specifying the number of whole shares of Common Stock the Participant wishes to purchase accompanied by valid payment in the form of (i) a check, (ii) an attestation form confirming the Participant s current ownership of whole shares of Common Stock equal in value to the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock, and/or (iii) an authorization to sell shares equal in value to the total Exercise Price for that number of shares of Common Stock.  Notices and authorizations shall be delivered and all checks shall be payable to the Company s third party stock plan administrator, or as otherwise directed by the Company. 

Fractional shares may not be exercised.  Shares of Common Stock will be issued as soon as practicable after exercise.  Notwithstanding the above, for administrative or other reasons, including, but not limited to the Company s determination that exercisability of the Option would  

2 

violate any federal, state or other applicable laws, the Company may from time to time suspend the ability of the Participant to exercise an Option for limited periods of time, which suspensions shall not change the period in which the Option is exercisable, except as otherwise provided in the Plan. 

4. 

EXPIRATION OF OPTION     

Except as otherwise may be provided by the Committee consistent with the terms of the Plan, the Option shall expire and cease to be exercisable as of the earlier of (a) the Expiration Date set forth in the Grant Notice or (b) the date specified below in Sections 4A. through 4G., as applicable.  

A. 

If the Participant s termination of employment is by reason of death or the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan, then any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable (by the Participant or the Participant s estate, beneficiary or legal representative, as the case may be) at the date of such termination of employment or the first day on which the Participant is determined to be disabled under such long-term disability plan, as the case may be, until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment or the first day of disability as determined under such long-term disability plan, as the case may be.     

B. 

If the Participant remains continuously employed with the Company or a Subsidiary until September 30, 2016, (which shall include a period of time during which the Participant is absent from active employment in accordance with a leave of absence policy adopted by the Company or a Subsidiary), and retires at or after attaining age 62 with 10 years of service under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s pension plan ( 62/10 Status ), then the Option shall be exercisable in accordance with and at the times it becomes vested, as described in the Grant Notice, notwithstanding the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or a Subsidiary, until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment.     

C. 

If the Participant s employment is involuntarily terminated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a termination as a result of disability, cause or gross misconduct) within two (2) years following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), any vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Participant may exercise the Option upon the date of such termination of employment, and the Option shall remain exercisable until the date that is three (3) years following the date of such termination of employment (or until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment, in the case of a termination of employment by reason of the Participant s death or a termination of employment described in Section 4B. or Section 4D. hereof).  Furthermore, the Option exercise period shall be as described in Section 4A. in the event the Participant is determined to be disabled under the provisions of the Company s or a Subsidiary s long-term disability plan prior to the Participant s termination of employment described in this Section 4C.     

D. 

If the Participant terminates employment and at the time of such termination of employment the Participant is eligible (age 65 or at least age 55 with 10 years of vesting service) to begin receiving pension payments immediately (whether or not such Participant actually begins to receive payments) from a qualified pension plan sponsored by the Company or a Subsidiary, the Participant may exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable at the time of the Participant s termination of employment until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such termination of employment.     

E. 

In the event of a Change in Control in which the acquiring or surviving company in the transaction does not assume or continue the Option upon the Change in Control, any  

3 

vesting period with respect to the Option shall be deemed to be satisfied and the Option shall become fully vested and exercisable (provided that the Option may be canceled upon the consummation of the Change in Control without payment of any additional consideration if the exercise price of the Option is less than the consideration per Share payable to shareholders of the Company in such Change in Control) and the Participant may exercise the Option not assumed or continued until the date that is five (5) years following the date of such Change in Control.  If the Participant terminates employment following such Change in Control for a reason described in 4F., any unexercised portion of the Option shall be immediately forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.     

F. 

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4, if the Participant s employment is terminated by the Company for deliberate, willful or gross misconduct, the unexercised portion of the Option, whether or not then vested and exercisable, shall be immediately forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.     

G. 

Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4 hereof: (i) the Participant may exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable at the time of the Participant s termination of employment until the date that is three (3) months following the date of such termination of employment; and (ii) any portion of the Option that is not vested and exercisable at the time of such termination of employment     shall be forfeited and canceled as of the date of such termination of employment.     

PROTECTION OF CONFIDENTIALITY 

By electronically accepting the Option and these   Standard Terms and Conditions  , the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following. 

5. 

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS     

The Participant acknowledges that the Company regards certain information relating to its business and operations as confidential.  This includes all confidential and proprietary information concerning the assets, business or affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary or any customers thereof ("Confidential Information").  The Participant s electronic signature also acknowledges that the Company has certain information that derives economic value from not being known to the general public or to others who could obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, which the Company takes reasonable efforts to protect the secrecy of ("Trade Secrets"). 

6. 

TYPES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OR TRADE SECRETS     

The Participant acknowledges that he or she developed or have had and will in the future continue to have access to one or more of the following types of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets: information about rates or costs; customer or supplier agreements and negotiations; business opportunities; scheduling and delivery methods; business and marketing plans; financial information or plans; communications within the attorney-client privilege or other privileges; operating procedures and methods; construction methods and plans; proprietary computer systems design, programming or software; strategic plans; succession plans; proprietary company training programs; employee performance, compensation or benefits; negotiations or strategies relating to collective bargaining agreements and/or labor disputes; and internal or external claims or complaints regarding personal injuries, employment laws or policies, environmental protection, or hazardous materials.  By electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that any unauthorized disclosures by him or her to any third party of such Confidential Information or Trade Secrets would constitute gross misconduct. 

4 

7. 

AGREEMENT TO MAINTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION     

The Participant agrees that he or she will not, unless he or she receives prior written consent from the senior human resources officer or such other person designated by the Company (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Sr. HR Officer"), or unless ordered by a court or government agency,   (i)     divulge, use, furnish or   disclose to any subsequent employer or any other person    , whether or not a competitor of the Company,   any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets, or (ii) retain or take with him or her when he or she leaves the Company any property of the Company or any documents (including any electronic or computer records) relating to any Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

8. 

PRIOR NOTICE OF EMPLOYMENT, ETC     

(i)  The Participant acknowledges that if he or she become an employee, contractor, or consultant for any other person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 10 ( Entity ), this would create a substantial risk that he or she would, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or rely upon the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets for the benefit of the other Entity to the detriment of the Company.  The Participant further acknowledges that such disclosures would be particularly damaging if made shortly after he or she leaves the Company.  Therefore, by electronically accepting the Grant Notice and these Standard Terms and Conditions, the Participant agrees that for a period of one-year after he or she leaves the Company, before accepting any employment or affiliation with another Entity he or she will give written notice to the Sr. HR Officer of his or her intention to accept such employment or affiliation.  The Participant also agrees to confer in good faith with the Sr. HR Officer concerning whether his or her proposed employment or affiliation could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

(ii)  If the Sr. HR Officer and the Participant are unable to reach agreement on this issue, he or she agrees to submit this issue to arbitration, to be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration Association, for final resolution.  The Participant also agrees that he or she will not begin to work for another person or entity engaged in the Business of the Company as defined in Section 10, until the Sr. HR Officer or an arbitrator has determined that such employment could reasonably be expected to be performed without improper disclosure of the Company s Confidential Information or Trade Secrets. 

9. 

FAILURE TO COMPLY     

The Participant agrees that, if he or she fails to comply with any of the promises that he or she made in Section 7 or 8 above, (a) the Option, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) the Participant will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the Option less the exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by the Participant upon exercise of the Option at any time from 180 days prior to the earlier of (i) the date when he or she leaves the Company or (ii) the date he or she fails to comply with any such promise that hr or she made in Section 7 or 8, to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that the Participant has not complied with any such promise. The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the cash equivalent) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company.  The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded the Participant the shares of Common Stock granted to him or her under the Grant Notice absent the Participant s agreement to be bound by the promises made in Sections 7 and 8 above. 

5 

NO DIRECT COMPETITION 

By electronically accepting the Option and these   Standard Terms and Conditions  , the Participant acknowledges and agrees to the following. 

10. 

NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS; NON-COMPETITION     

The Participant agrees that   for a period of one year   following his or her departure from the Company, he or she will not (directly or in association with others) call on or solicit any of the Company s customers with whom he or she had personal contact while he or she was employed by the Company, for the purpose of providing the customers with goods and/or services similar in nature to those provided by the Company in its Business as defined below.  The Participant further agrees that for the same time period, he or she will not, directly or indirectly, engage in any activity which is the same as or competitive with the Business (as defined below) including, without limitation, engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 2% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), guarantor, consultant, advisor, agent, sales representative or other participant, in any market in which the Company conducts its Business.  For purposes of these Standard Terms and Conditions, the term  Business  means the transportation of goods in interstate commerce and related services in or through or for any state in which the Company or any of its affiliates provides such services directly or   indirectly and any other activity that supports such operations including by the way of example but not limitation, marketing, information systems, logistics, technology development or implementation, terminal services and any other activity of the Company or any of its affiliates.    This Section 10 is not intended to prevent the Participant from engaging in any activity that is not the same as or competitive with the Business.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company would not have awarded him or her the shares of Common Stock granted under the Grant Notice absent his or her agreement to be bound by the promises made in this Section 10. 

11. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF     

The Participant acknowledges that he or she has carefully read and considered all these Standard Terms and Conditions, including the restraints imposed upon him or her pursuant to Sections 7, 8 and 10.  The Participant also agrees that each of the restraints contained herein is necessary for the protection of the goodwill, Confidential Information, Trade Secrets and other legitimate interests of the Company; that each and every one of these restraints is reasonable in respect to subject matter, length of time and geographic area; and that these restraints, individually or in the aggregate, will not prevent him or her from obtaining other suitable employment during the period in which he or she are bound by such restraints.  The Participant further acknowledges that, were he or she to breach any of the covenants contained in Sections 7, 8 and 10, the damage to the Company would be irreparable.  The Participant therefore agrees that the Company, in addition to any other remedies available to it, including, without limitation, the remedies set forth in Sections 9 and 12, shall be entitled to injunctive relief against his or her breach or threaten breach of said covenants.  The Participant and the Company further agree that, in the event that any provision of Sections 7, 8 and 10 shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable by reason of its being extended over too great a time, too large a geographic area or too great a range of activities, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to permit its enforcement to the maximum extent permitted by law. 

12. 

VIOLATION OF PROMISES     

The Participant agrees that if he or she violates any of his or her promises in Section 10 above, (a) the Option, to the extent then unexercised, whether vested or unvested, will be immediately forfeited and cancelled and (b) the Participant will be required to immediately deliver to the Company an amount (in cash or in shares of Common Stock) equal to the market value (on the date of exercise) of any shares of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the Option less the  

6 

exercise price paid for such shares to the extent such shares were acquired by him or her upon exercise of the Option at any time from 180 days prior to the date when he or she leaves the Company to 180 days after the date when the Company learns that he or she has not complied with any such promise.  The Participant agrees that he or she will deliver such shares of Common Stock (or the fair market value thereof) to the Company on such terms and conditions as may be required by the Company.  The Participant further agrees that the Company will be entitled to enforce this repayment obligation by all legal means available, including, without limitation, to set off the market value of any such shares of Common Stock against any amount that might be owed to him or her by the Company. 

GENERAL 

The Participant agrees and the Company agrees that any controversy, claim, or dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the breach of any of these terms and conditions, or arising out of or relating to his or her employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates, or the termination of such relationship, shall be resolved by binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator under the rules set forth in the Federal  Arbitration Act, except for claims by the Company relating to his or her breach of any of the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 above. By way of example only, claims subject to this agreement to arbitrate include claims litigated under federal, state and local statutory or common law, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, including the Civil Rights Act of 1994, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the law of contract and the law of tort.  The Participant and the Company agree that such claims may be brought in an appropriate administrative forum, but at the point at which the Participant or the Company seek a judicial forum to resolve the matter, this agreement for binding arbitration becomes effective, and the Participant and the Company hereby knowingly and voluntarily waive any right to have any such dispute tried and adjudicated by a judge or jury.  The foregoing not to the contrary, the Company may seek to enforce the employee covenants set forth in Paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 or 10 above, in any court of competent jurisdiction. 

This agreement to arbitrate shall continue in full force and effect despite the expiration or termination of these Standard Terms and Conditions or the Participant s employment relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates.  The Participant and the Company agree that any award rendered by the arbitrator shall be final and binding and that judgment upon the final award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.  The arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief that the arbitrator deems just and equitable, including any remedy or relief that would have been available to the Participant, the Company or any of its affiliates had the mater been heard in court.  All expenses of the arbitration, including the required travel and other expenses of the arbitrator and any witnesses, and the costs relating to any proof produced at the direction of the arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the arbitrator directs otherwise in the award.  The arbitrator s compensation shall be borne equally by the Participant and the Company unless otherwise mutually agreed or unless the law provides otherwise. 

If any provision of these Standard Terms and Conditions is, becomes, or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Company, it shall be stricken and the remainder of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall remain in force and effect. 

7 

15. 

CHOICE OF LAW; JURISDICTION     

All questions pertaining to the construction, regulation, validity, and effect of these Standard Terms and Conditions shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, without regard to the conflict of laws doctrine.  The Company and the Participant hereby consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction and venue of any state or federal court located in the county of Salt Lake City within the State of Utah for resolution of any and all claims, causes of action or disputes arising out of or related to these Standard Terms and Conditions.  Sections 8(ii) and 10 shall not apply to employees who are subject to California law.   

The Plan and these Standard Terms and Conditions may be amended or altered by the Committee or the Company s Board of Directors to the extent provided in the Plan. 

17. 

RESTRICTIONS ON RESALES OF SHARES ACQUIRED PURSUANT TO OPTION EXERCISE     

The Company may impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by the Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Common Stock issued as a result of the exercise of the Option, including without limitation (a) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (b) restrictions designed to delay and/or coordinate the timing and manner of sales by Participant and other optionholders and (c) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers.  

The Company shall not deliver shares of Common Stock in respect of the exercise of any Option unless and until the Participant has made satisfactory arrangements to satisfy all applicable tax withholding obligations.  Unless the Participant pays the tax withholding obligations to the Company by cash or check in connection with the exercise of the Option, tax withholding may be effected, at the Company s option, by withholding Common Stock issuable in connection with the exercise of the Option (provided that shares of Common Stock may be withheld only to the extent that such tax withholding will not result in adverse accounting treatment for the Company).  The Participant acknowledges that the Company shall have the right to deduct any taxes required to be withheld by law in connection with the exercise of the Option from any amounts payable by it to the Participant (including, without limitation, future cash wages). 

19. 

NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTION     

Except as permitted under the Plan, the Participant may not assign or transfer the   Option to anyone other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution and the Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant during his or her lifetime or, following a Participant s death, by the Participant s beneficiary.  The Company may cancel the Participant s Option if the Participant attempts to assign or transfer it in a manner inconsistent with this Section 19. 

20. 

LIMITATION OF INTEREST IN SHARES SUBJECT TO OPTION     

Neither the Participant (individually or as a member of a group) nor any beneficiary or other person claiming under or through the Participant shall have any right, title, interest, or privilege in or to any shares of Common Stock allocated or reserved for the purpose of the Plan or subject to the Grant Notice or these Standard Terms and Conditions except as to such shares of Common Stock, if any, as shall have been issued to such person upon exercise of the Option or any part of it.  Nothing in the Plan, in the Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions or any other instrument executed pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon the Participant any right to continue in the Company s employ or service nor limit in any way the Company s right to terminate the Participant s employment at any time for any reason. 

8 

21. 

OTHER AGREEMENTS SUPERSEDED     

The Grant Notice, these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Plan constitute the entire understanding between the Participant and the Company regarding the Option.  Any prior agreements, commitments or negotiations concerning the Option are superseded. 

9 

</EX-10.(C)>

<EX-12>
 5
 unp-20151231ex1299bc1c7.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit 12

Exhibit 12 

RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 unp-20151231ex214fda4f6.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21

Exhibit 21 

SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

Name of Corporation  

State   of Incorporation  

Union Pacific Railroad Company  

Delaware  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 unp-20151231xex23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23

Exhibit 2  3 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement No. 33-12513, Registration Statement No. 33-53968, Registration Statement No. 33-49785, Registration Statement No. 33-49849, Registration Statement No. 333-10797, Registration Statement No. 333-88709, Registration Statement No. 333-42768, Registration Statement No. 333-106707, Registration Statement No. 333-106708, Registration Statement No. 333-105714, Registration Statement No. 333-105715, Registration Statement No. 333-116003, Registration Statement No. 333-132324, Registration Statement No. 333-155708, Registration Statement No. 333-170209, Registration Statement No. 333-170208, and Registration No. 333-188671 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-201958 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 5, 2016, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies (the Corporation) and the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation and Subsidiary Companies for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Omaha, Nebraska 

February 5, 2016 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 unp-20151231xex24.htm
 EX-24

Exhibit 24

Exhibit 2  4 

UNION PACIFIC CORPORATION 

Powers of Attorney  

Each of the undersigned directors of Union Pacific Corporation, a Utah corporation (the Company), do hereby appoint each of   Lance M. Fritz  , Diane K. Duren, and James J. Theisen, Jr. his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, to sign on his or her behalf the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 201  5  , and any and all amendments thereto, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Po  wer of Attorney as of February 4  , 201  6  . 

/s/ Andrew H. Card, Jr.  

/s/ Michael R. McCarthy  

Andrew H. Card, Jr.  

Michael R. McCarthy  

/s/ Erroll B. Davis, Jr.  

/s/ Michael W. McConnell  

Erroll B. Davis, Jr.  

Michael W. McConnell  

/s/ David B. Dillon  

/s/ Thomas F. McLarty III  

David B. Dillon  

Thomas F. McLarty III  

/s/ Judith Richards Hope  

/s/ Steven R. Rogel  

Judith Richards Ho  pe  

Steven R. Rogel  

/s/ Charles C. Krulak  

/s/ Jose H. Villarreal  

Charles C. Krulak  

Jose H. Villarreal  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 9
 unp-20151231ex31a03d2a7.htm
 EX-31.(A)

Exhibit 31(a)

Exhibit 31(a) 

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

I, Lance M. Fritz, certify that: 

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation; 

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 5, 2016 

/s/ Lance M. Fritz  

Lance M. Fritz  

Chairman,   President and  

Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 10
 unp-20151231ex31b950d2e.htm
 EX-31.(B)

Exhibit 31(b)

Exhibit 31(  b  ) 

CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 

I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., certify that: 

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Union Pacific Corporation; 

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and   procedures   to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that   occurred   during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 

(a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process,   summarize   and report financial information; and 

(b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a   significant   role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: Februa  ry 5, 2016 

/s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

Robert M. Knight, Jr.  

Executive Vice President   Finance and  

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 11
 unp-20151231xex32.htm
 EX-32

Exhibit 32

Exhibit   32 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 

AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the   period ending December 31, 2015  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Lance M  .   Fritz,   Chairman,   President and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2) 

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.     

By:    /s/ Lance M. Fritz 

Lance M. Fritz 

Chairman,   President and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Union Pacific Corporation 

February 5, 2016 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 

18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 

AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the accompanying Annual Report of Union Pacific Corporation (the Corporation) on Form 10-K for the   period ending December 31, 2015  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert M. Knight, Jr., Executive Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of my knowledge, that: 

(1) 

The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2) 

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.     

By:    /s/ Robert M. Knight, Jr. 

Robert M. Knight, Jr. 

Executive Vice President - Finance and  

Chief Financial Officer 

Union Pacific Corporation 

February 5, 2016 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 25
 unp-20151231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 26
 unp-20151231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 27
 unp-20151231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 28
 unp-20151231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 29
 unp-20151231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 30
 unp-20151231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

