<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090211_10-K_edgar_data_101829_0001193125-09-024624_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5920404</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>615134</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>305531</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1372654</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1573726</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1772686</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>89</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-024624.hdr.sgml : 20120723

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-024624

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		49

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20090211

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090211


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP /DE/

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000101829

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS [3724]

		IRS NUMBER:				060570975

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00812

		FILM NUMBER:		09587479



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		UNITED TECHNOLOGIES BLDG

		STREET 2:		ONE FINANCIAL PLZ

		CITY:			HARTFORD

		STATE:			CT

		ZIP:			06101

		BUSINESS PHONE:		8607287000



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED TECHNOLOGIES MICROELECTRONICS CENTER

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850825



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19841205




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-09-024624.txt : 20120723

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K                  
     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008        Commission file number
1-812                  UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                  

DELAWARE   
     
   06 0570975    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     

One Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut   
     
   06103    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (860) 728-7000                  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
   Common Stock ($1 par value)   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   (CUSIP 913017 10 9)   

Indicate by check mark if the
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes     .    No     .
     Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes     .    No     .      Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes     .    No     .      Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated
filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes         No     .      The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates at June 30, 2008 was approximately $59,346,468,617, based on the New York Stock Exchange closing price for such shares
on that date. For purposes of this calculation, the Registrant has assumed that its directors and executive officers are affiliates.      At
January 31, 2009, there were   942,294,242 shares of Common Stock outstanding.      List hereunder documents incorporated by
reference and the Part of the Form 10-K into which the document is incorporated: (1) portions of the United Technologies Corporation 2008 Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 are incorporated by
reference in Parts I, II and IV hereof; and (2) portions of the United Technologies Corporation Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareowners are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.               

Table of Contents  

      UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Index to Annual Report        on Form 10-K
for        Year Ended December 31, 2008        

Page    
 
    PART I     

3   

Item 1.   
     
    Business    
      
  3   

Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results    
      
  9   

Item 1A.   
     
    Risk Factors    
      
  10   

Item 1B.   
     
    Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  14   

Item 2.   
     
    Properties    
      
  14   

Item 3.   
     
    Legal Proceedings    
      
  15   

Item 4.   
     
    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  16   

PART II     

16   

Item 5.   
     
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
      
  16   

Item 6.   
     
    Selected Financial Data    
      
  16   

Item 7.   
     
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
  16   

Item 7A.   
     
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  17   

Item 8.   
     
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  17   

Item 9.   
     
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  17   

Item 9A.   
     
    Controls and Procedures    
      
  17   

PART III    

17   

Item 10.   
     
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  17   

Item 11.   
     
    Executive Compensation    
      
  19   

Item 12.   
     
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    
      
  19   

Item 13.   
     
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  20   

Item 14.   
     
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services    
      
  20   

PART IV     

20   

Item 15.   
     
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  20   

SIGNATURES    
      
  26   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

    UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Annual Report on Form 10-K for Year Ended December 31, 2008       Whenever
reference is made in this Form 10-K to specific sections of UTC s 2008 Annual Report to Shareowners (2008 Annual Report), those sections are incorporated herein by reference. United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries  names,
abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. As used herein, the terms  we, 
 us,   our  or  UTC,  unless the context requires otherwise, mean United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries.        
 PART I        

Item 1.   
   Business          General       United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems and
aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable to acquisitions and the internal development of our existing businesses. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in our 2008 Annual Report, especially the information contained therein under the heading  Business Overview.       Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis, Carrier and UTC Fire   Security (collectively referred to as
the commercial businesses) serve customers in the commercial and residential property industries worldwide. Carrier also serves commercial, industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers. Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton
Sundstrand and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the aerospace businesses) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Hamilton
Sundstrand and Pratt   Whitney also serve customers in certain industrial markets. For 2008, our commercial and industrial revenues (generated principally by our commercial businesses) were approximately 62 percent of our consolidated
revenues, and commercial aerospace and military aerospace revenues were approximately 21 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. Revenues for 2008 from outside the United States, including U.S. export sales, were 64
percent of our total segment revenues.      This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all
amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading  SEC Filings  as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

    Description of Business by Segment       We conduct our business through six principal segments: Otis, Carrier, UTC Fire   Security, Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and
Sikorsky. Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal products and services of each segment are as follows:

Otis  
     
   elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service.   

Carrier  
     
   residential, commercial and industrial heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems and equipment, food service equipment, building automation and controls,
HVAC and refrigeration components and installation, retrofit and aftermarket services.   

UTC Fire   Security  
     
   fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems and fire fighting equipment, electronic security, monitoring and rapid response systems and service and security personnel
services.   

Pratt   Whitney  
     
   commercial, military, business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, parts and services, industrial gas turbines and space propulsion.   

Hamilton Sundstrand  
     
   aerospace products and aftermarket services, including power generation, management and distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire
protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units, propeller systems and industrial products, including air compressors, metering pumps and fluid handling equipment.   

Sikorsky  
     
   military and commercial helicopters, aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.   
    UTC is in the process of incorporating UTC Power s combined cooling, heating and power
systems business within Carrier s businesses, its geothermal power systems business within Pratt   Whitney s power systems business, and its space and defense fuel cell power plant business within Hamilton Sundstrand s
energy, space and defense business. These transitions are expected to be completed during the first half of 2009.      Segment financial data
for the years 2006 through 2008, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales, appears in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.       Otis       Otis is the world s largest elevator and
escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving
walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and
residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through sales representatives and distributors.      Revenues generated by Otis  international operations were 80 percent and 81 percent of total Otis segment revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, Otis  backlog was $15,025 million
as compared to $14,146 million at December 31, 2007. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2008, approximately $8,476 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2009.       Carrier       Carrier is the world s largest manufacturer and distributor of HVAC and refrigeration
systems. It also produces food service equipment and HVAC and refrigeration-related controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. Carrier also provides installation, retrofit and aftermarket services and
components for the products it sells and those of other manufacturers in the HVAC and refrigeration industries. Carrier s products and services are sold under Carrier and other brand names to building contractors and owners, homeowners,
transportation companies, retail stores and food service companies. Carrier sells directly to the end customer and through manufacturers  representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of Carrier s HVAC
businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by weather. Carrier customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution channels.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   Revenues generated by Carrier s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 60
percent and 59 percent of total Carrier segment revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, Carrier s business backlog was $1,996 million as compared to $2,097 million at December 31, 2007. Substantially all the
business backlog at December 31, 2008 is expected to be realized as sales in 2009.       UTC Fire   Security       UTC Fire   Security is a global provider of security and fire safety products and services. We created the UTC Fire   Security segment
in the second quarter of 2005 upon acquiring Kidde and adding the Kidde industrial, retail and commercial fire safety businesses to the former Chubb segment. In the electronic security industry, UTC Fire   Security provides system
integration, installation and service of intruder alarms, access control systems and video surveillance systems under several brand names including Chubb. In the fire safety industry, UTC Fire   Security designs, manufactures, integrates,
installs, sells and services a wide range of specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products and systems and manufactures, sells and services portable fire extinguishers and other fire fighting equipment under several brand names,
including Kidde. UTC Fire   Security also provides monitoring, response and security personnel services, including cash-in-transit security, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. Its products and services are
used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences.      UTC Fire   Security provides its products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to the customer as well as
through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution. Revenues generated by UTC Fire   Security s international operations were 83 percent and 82 percent of total UTC Fire   Security segment
revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, UTC Fire   Security s business backlog was $1,064 million as compared to $1,084 million at December 31, 2007. Substantially all the business backlog at
December 31, 2008 is expected to be realized as sales in 2009.       Pratt   Whitney       Pratt   Whitney is among the world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the
commercial, military, business jet and general aviation markets. Pratt   Whitney s Global Services provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large
commercial engines. Pratt   Whitney produces families of engines for wide and narrow body aircraft in the commercial and military markets. Pratt   Whitney also sells engines for industrial applications and space propulsion systems.
Pratt   Whitney Canada (P WC) is a world leader in the production of engines powering business, regional, light jet, utility and military aircraft and helicopters. Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne (PWR) is a leader in the design,
development and manufacture of sophisticated aerospace propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, including the U.S. space shuttle. Pratt   Whitney s Global Material Solutions (GMS) is in the process of engineering,
certifying, manufacturing and selling new parts, including life limited parts, for CFM56     -3 engines.      In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt   Whitney
has entered into collaboration arrangements in which revenues, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2008, the interests of participants in new and existing Pratt   Whitney-directed commercial jet engine production programs
ranged from 14 percent to 29 percent. In addition, Pratt   Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 33 percent interest in the International Aero Engines (IAE) collaboration that sells and supports V2500      engines for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft. At December 31, 2008, a portion of Pratt   Whitney s interests in IAE (equivalent to 4 percent of the overall IAE
collaboration) were held by Pratt   Whitney sub-partners. Pratt   Whitney also has a 50 percent interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, undertaken to develop, market and manufacture the GP7000      engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. This engine entered into service with its first revenue service flight in August 2008. At December 31, 2008, 40 percent of Pratt  
Whitney s 50 percent interest in the EA was held by other participants. Pratt   Whitney is also pursuing additional collaboration partners.      In terms of engine development programs, Pratt   Whitney is under contract with the U.S. Air Force to develop the F135 engine, a derivative of Pratt   Whitney s F119 engine, to power the
single-engine F-35 Lightning II aircraft being developed by Lockheed Martin. In addition, Pratt   Whitney is currently developing technology intended to enable it to power proposed and future aircraft, including testing of the PurePower
PW1000G geared turbofan engine. The technology demonstrator of the PurePower PW1000G engine completed flight testing in 2008. Pratt   Whitney has also received Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) certification for the Advantage 70 upgrade to
its PW4000 engine for Airbus A330 aircraft. The Advantage 70 upgrade is intended to reduce maintenance and fuel costs and increase thrust. Certifications for the Advantage 70 from the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) are anticipated in 2009.
PWR is developing a liquid fuel J-2X engine to support NASA s vision for space exploration. PWR is also upgrading the performance of the RS68 engine to support U.S. Air Force launch requirements and NASA requirements. P WC is developing the
PW600 engine series for the  
       
   5   

Table of Contents  

very light jet market. In 2008, P WC received FAA and EASA certification for the PW600. PW600 engine models have been selected by engine manufacturers
such as Cessna Aircraft and Embraer. P WC is also developing the PW210 engine for Sikorsky s S-76D helicopter and the PurePower PW800 for the new generation of long-range business jets. In 2008, IAE received EASA and FAA aircraft
certification for its SelectOne   TM    upgrade to the V2500 engine for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft. The first of these upgraded engines entered
into revenue service in October 2008. The SelectOne upgrade is part of IAE s V2500Select   SM    program of product and service enhancements launched
in November 2005. In 2008, GMS received supplemental type certifications from the FAA and EASA for all of the CFM56-3 engine life limited parts being developed by GMS. Pratt   Whitney continues to enhance its programs through performance
improvement measures and product base expansion.      Pratt   Whitney s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers,
airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, space launch vehicle providers and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt   Whitney s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety
and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine programs, create uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the
end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to Airbus and Boeing were 11.7 and 6.5 percent, respectively, of total Pratt   Whitney revenues in 2008, before taking into
account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. government were 27.4 percent of total Pratt   Whitney segment revenues in 2008.      Revenues from Pratt   Whitney s international operations, including U.S. exports, were 60 percent and 56 percent of total Pratt   Whitney segment revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At
December 31, 2008, Pratt   Whitney s business backlog was $23,570 million, including $5,871 million of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts, as compared to $23,607 million and $5,334 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2007. Of the total Pratt   Whitney backlog at December 31, 2008, approximately $8,975 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2009. Pratt   Whitney s backlog includes certain contracts for which
actual costs may ultimately exceed total revenues from these contracts. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.       Hamilton Sundstrand       Hamilton Sundstrand is among the
world s leading suppliers of technologically advanced aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. Hamilton Sundstrand s aerospace products, such as power generation, management and
distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units and propeller systems, serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as
well as space and undersea applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support and fleet maintenance programs. Hamilton Sundstrand sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the
U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators and independent distributors. Hamilton Sundstrand sales of aerospace products to Boeing, Airbus and Pratt   Whitney, collectively, including sales where the U.S. government was the ultimate
customer, were 17.3 percent of Hamilton Sundstrand segment sales in 2008.      Hamilton Sundstrand is engaged in development programs for the
Boeing 787 aircraft, the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft and the Airbus A400M military aircraft, and has developed and delivered systems for the Airbus A380 aircraft. Hamilton Sundstrand is also the prime contractor for
NASA s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems and thermal control systems for the U.S. space shuttle program, the international space station and the Orion crew
exploration vehicle.      Hamilton Sundstrand s principal industrial products, such as air compressors, metering pumps and fluid handling
equipment, serve industries involved with raw material processing, bulk material handling, construction, hydrocarbon and chemical processing, and water and wastewater treatment. Hamilton Sundstrand sells these products under the Sullair, Sundyne,
Milton Roy and other brand names directly to end-users, and through manufacturer representatives and distributors.      Revenues generated by
Hamilton Sundstrand s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 51 percent and 50 percent of total Hamilton Sundstrand segment revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, Hamilton Sundstrand s
business backlog was $5,226 million, including $913 million under U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts, as compared to $5,152 million and $823 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Of the total Hamilton Sundstrand backlog at
December 31, 2008, approximately $2,543 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2009.       Sikorsky       Sikorsky is one of the world s largest manufacturers of military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft
parts and services.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Current major production programs at Sikorsky include the UH-60M Black Hawk medium-transport helicopters
and HH-60M Medevac helicopters for the U.S. and foreign governments, the S-70 Black Hawk for foreign governments, the MH-60S and MH-60R helicopters for the U.S. Navy, the International Naval Hawk for multiple naval missions, and the S-76 and S-92
helicopters for commercial operations. The UH-60M helicopter is the latest and most modern in a series of Black Hawk variants that Sikorsky has been delivering to the U.S. Army since 1978 and requires significant additional assembly hours relative
to the previous variants. In December 2007, the U.S. government and Sikorsky signed a five-year multi-service contract for 537 H-60 helicopters to be delivered to the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy, which include the UH-60M, HH-60M, MH-60S and MH-60R. The
contract includes options for an additional 263 aircraft, spares, and kits, potentially making it the largest contract in UTC and Sikorsky history. Actual production quantities will be determined year-by-year over the life of the program based on
funding allocations set by Congress and Pentagon acquisition priorities. The deliveries of the aircraft are scheduled to be made through 2012. Sikorsky is also developing the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and
the CH-148, a derivative of the H-92, a military variant of the S-92, for the Canadian government. The latter is being developed under a fixed-price contract that provides for the development, production, and 20-year logistical support of 28
helicopters. This is the largest and most expansive fixed-price development contract in Sikorsky s history. In December 2008, Sikorsky and the Canadian government executed amendments to the contract that revised the delivery schedule and
contract specifications. The first test flight was successfully conducted in November 2008 and delivery of the first helicopter is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2010.      Sikorsky s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for
helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are made directly by Sikorsky and by its subsidiaries and joint ventures. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and
provide maintenance and repair services.      Revenues generated by Sikorsky s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were
36 percent and 34 percent of total Sikorsky revenues in 2008 and in 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, Sikorsky s business backlog was $13,167 million, including $6,725 million under U.S. government-funded contracts and
subcontracts, as compared to $11,445 million and $5,180 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2008, approximately $6,055 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2009.   
   Other       UTC Power has developed products and
services for commercial buildings using 200kW phosphoric acid fuel cell and microturbine-driven absorption chilling systems. These systems are highly efficient combined cooling, heating and power systems. In addition, UTC Power has developed a
geothermal power system capable of producing power from the lowest temperature geothermal water used to date to produce electricity. UTC Power is the world leader in the application of fuel cell technology to transportation applications, including
automobiles, transit buses and the U.S. space shuttle program. UTC Power is also a provider of energy advisory and consulting services aimed at making commercial buildings more energy efficient.      UTC Power is the world leader in stationary fuel cell power with more than 260 200kW phosphoric acid fuel cell power plants sold since 1992. UTC Power
has also developed a 400kW fuel cell which is scheduled to be placed into service in 2009. This new fuel cell is expected to have greater durability than any other large stationary fuel cell currently available in the market. UTC Power s
automotive and bus transportation fuel cell power plants are based on proton exchange membrane (PEM) technology, including its PureMotion 120 power plant, which is currently used in revenue service in transit bus applications in Connecticut,
California and Europe.     UTC Power is currently developing PEM fuel cells for submarine applications. In addition, UTC Power is a maker of alkaline-based fuel cells used to provide electricity and drinking water to the U.S. space
shuttle.      Although fuel cells are believed to be superior to conventional power generation technologies in terms of total system efficiency
and environmental characteristics, the technology is still in either early commercialization or development. Continued technology advancement and cost reduction are required to achieve wide-scale market acceptance. Government support is needed to
fully commercialize fuel cell technology. There is still significant uncertainty as to whether and when commercially viable fuel cells will be produced.      UTC Power merged with UTC Fuel Cells, effective January 1, 2007, with UTC Power continuing as the surviving entity. UTC is in the process of incorporating UTC Power s combined cooling, heating and power
systems business within Carrier s businesses, its geothermal power systems business within Pratt   Whitney s power systems business, and its space and defense fuel cell power plant business within Hamilton Sundstrand s
energy, space and defense business. These transitions are expected to be completed during the first half of 2009. The results of UTC Power and UTC Fuel Cells are included in the  Eliminations and Other  category in the segment financial
data in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole        Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses       As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by a variety of economic and other factors, including those described in this section, in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  included in our 2008 Annual Report, in Item 1,  Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,  and in Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to
significant competition from a large number of companies in the United States and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.      Our aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers (whose governments sometimes provide
research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their national commercial products) and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. In particular, Pratt   Whitney
experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, participation in financing arrangements and
maintenance agreements. Customer selections of engines and components can also have a significant impact on later sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S. government s and other governments  policies of purchasing parts from
suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, backlog
information may not be indicative of future demand. Pratt   Whitney s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce, Honeywell and Turbomeca. For information regarding customer financing commitments,
participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost guarantees, see Notes 4 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.       Research and Development       Since changes in technology
can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged to expense as incurred, were $1,771 million or 3.1 percent of
total sales in 2008, as compared with $1,678 million or 3.1 percent of total sales in 2007 and $1,529 million or 3.2 percent of total sales in 2006. We also perform research and development work under contracts funded by the U.S. government and
other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed principally in the Pratt   Whitney segment and to a lesser extent in the Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky segments, amounted to $2,101 million in 2008, as compared
to $2,123 million in 2007 and $1,952 million in 2006. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently
recovered through production aircraft shipments. Of the totals, $2,008 million, $1,872 million and $1,621 million were expensed in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.       U.S. Government Contracts       U.S. government contracts
are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be
entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring
undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. government sales are made under fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $2,721 million or 4.6 percent of our total sales for 2008 were made
under cost-reimbursement type contracts.      Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors,
we have received audit reports from the U.S. government which recommend that we reduce certain contract prices because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to
government regulations. Some of these audit reports have involved substantial reductions. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further
discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A,  Risk Factors  and Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  in this Form 10-K and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008
Annual Report for further discussion.       Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations       Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory
authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be
required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.      Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the
violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency certified that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected.      We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or government policies can affect our worldwide
operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards, elevator safety codes and fire safety regulations are important to the businesses of Carrier, Otis and UTC Fire   Security respectively, while
government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses.       Intellectual Property and Raw Materials       We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses and
franchises related to our businesses. While this portfolio is cumulatively important to our business, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group of related patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises would have a material adverse effect on
our overall business or on any of our operating segments.      We believe we have adequate sources for our purchases of materials, components,
services and supplies used in our manufacturing. We work continuously with our supply base to ensure an adequate source of supply and to reduce costs. We pursue cost reductions through a number of mechanisms, including consolidating our purchases,
reducing the number of suppliers, strategic global sourcing and using online bidding competitions among potential suppliers. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to
allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Like other users in the United States, we are largely dependent upon foreign sources for certain raw materials requirements such as cobalt (Finland, Norway, Russia and Canada), tantalum (Australia and
Canada), chromium (South Africa, Kazakhstan, Zimbabwe and Russia) and rhenium (Chile, Kazakhstan and Germany). We have a number of ongoing programs to manage this dependence and the accompanying risk, including long-term agreements and the
conservation of materials through scrap reclamation and new manufacturing processes. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Although
recent high prices for some raw materials important to some of our businesses (steel, copper, aluminum, titanium and nickel) have caused margin and cost pressures, we do not foresee any near term unavailability of materials, components or supplies
that would have an adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our business segments. For further discussion of the possible effects of the cost and availability of raw materials on our business, see Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in
this Form 10-K.       Employees and Employee Relations       At December 31, 2008, our total employment was approximately 223,100, approximately 65 percent of which represents employees based outside the United States. During 2008, we renegotiated thirteen multi-year
collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at Carrier, Hamilton Sundstrand, and Sikorsky. In 2009, numerous collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation, the largest of which cover certain workers
at Sikorsky and Carrier. We do not anticipate any problems in renegotiating these contracts that would either individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the
effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.
     For a discussion of other matters which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, including the risks of
our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings  General  and  Description of Business by Segment  in this section, Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in this Form 10-K, and under
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in our 2008 Annual Report.        
 Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results       This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are
not statements of historical or present fact, constitute  forward-looking statements  under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public.
These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as  believe,   expect, 
 plans,   strategy,   prospects,   estimate,   project,   target,   anticipate,   guidance  and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future
operating or financial performance. These include, among others, statements relating to:       

future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance;          

the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally, including the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;      

new business opportunities;          

restructuring costs and savings;          

the scope, nature or impact of acquisition activity and integration into our businesses;          

the development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services;          

the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;          

the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements;          

the outcome of contingencies;          

future repurchases of common stock;          

future levels of indebtedness and capital spending; and          

pension plan assumptions and future contributions.         All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K for
2008 includes important information as to these factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements in the  Business  section under the headings  General, 
 Description of Business by Segment  and  Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole,  and in the  Risk Factors  and  Legal Proceedings  sections. Additional important information as to these factors is
included in our 2008 Annual Report in the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  under the headings  Business Overview,   Critical Accounting
Estimates,   Environmental Matters  and  Restructuring and Other Costs.  For additional information identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements,
see our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time.       

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Our business, financial condition,
operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future
results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in the  Business  section under the headings  Other
Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole  and  Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results  in this Form 10-K and in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  in our 2008 Annual Report.        Our Global Growth is Subject to a Number of
Economic Risks        As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme
disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have
taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance
our operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening
of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services as well as impact
the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, this tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our global
business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, air travel, construction activity, financial strength of airline customers and government procurement.
Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. Dollar against certain major currencies such as the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and other currencies also adversely affects our results. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity
of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

     Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries
       The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated approximately 62 percent of our revenues in 2008, are
influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and energy
costs, the tightening of the U.S. credit markets and other global and political factors. In addition to these factors, Carrier s financial performance can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment and, in its
residential business, weather conditions.      The results of our commercial and military aerospace businesses, which generated approximately
38 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries, which are cyclical in nature. The challenging operating environment currently faced by commercial
airlines is expected to continue. As a result, capital spending by commercial airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel pricing,
labor issues, worldwide airline profits, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, corporate profitability, and
backlog levels, all of which could reduce both the demand for air travel and the aftermarket sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel
and our aerospace businesses aftermarket sales and margins. Also, since a substantial portion of the backlog for commercial aerospace customers is scheduled for delivery beyond 2009, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that
firm orders be rescheduled or canceled. At times, our aerospace businesses also enter into firm fixed-price development contracts, which may require us to bear cost overruns related to unforeseen technical and design challenges that arise during the
development stage of the program. In addition, our aerospace businesses face intense competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers of new equipment and spare parts. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political
environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending and U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Spare parts sales and aftermarket service trends are affected by similar factors, including usage,
pricing, technological improvements, regulatory changes and the retirement of older aircraft. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing products in these business segments to market, we cannot predict
the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. A reduction in capital spending in the commercial aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse
effect on our financial performance or results of operations.        Our Business May Be Affected by Government Contracting Risks        U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our
failure to perform under the applicable contract. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other
damages it suffers. We are now, and believe that in light of the current U.S. government contracting environment we will continue to be, the subject of one or more U.S. government investigations. If we or one of our business units were charged with
wrongdoing as a result of any U.S. government investigation (including violation of certain environmental or export laws), the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts pending the
completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could subject us to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other damages. The U.S. government could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. The U.S.
government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper conduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Independently, failure to comply with
U.S. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the United States could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of our export privileges. In addition, we are also sensitive to U.S. military
budgets, which may fluctuate to reflect the policies of a new administration or Congress.        Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk
As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Economic Conditions, Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Local Government Regulation        We conduct our business on a global basis, with approximately 64 percent of our total 2008 segment revenues derived from operations outside of the United States and from U.S. export sales. Changes in local and
regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (primarily the commercial businesses) where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies.
In addition, currency  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins may also be negatively impacted by
worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when
financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. dollars. Given that the majority of our revenues are non-U.S. based, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our
results of operations.      The majority of sales in the aerospace businesses is transacted in U.S. dollars, consistent with established
industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the United States is incurred in the applicable local currency (principally the Euro and the Canadian dollar). For operating units with U.S. dollar sales and local currency costs,
there is a foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging
strategies associated with U.S. dollar revenues. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report for a discussion of our hedging strategies.      Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation,
exchange controls, employment regulations, and repatriation of earnings. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to political and economic
instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. For example, as a condition of sale or award of a contract, some international customers require
us to agree to offset arrangements, which may include in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial support arrangements. The contract may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. In
addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia and South Africa that carry high levels of currency, political and economic risk.      While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial
condition or operating results.        We Use a Variety of Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Third Party Contract
Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products
       Our reliance on suppliers, third party contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and
sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be
subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or third party contract manufacturers, supplier capacity constraints, supplier and third party contract manufacturer production disruptions, price
increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices
are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have
an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.        We Engage in Acquisitions, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating
Acquired Businesses with Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisitions        We seek
to grow through strategic acquisitions. In the past several years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement and expand our businesses, and may continue to do so in the future. The success
of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions, apply our internal controls processes to these acquired businesses, and cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter
difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to these acquisitions, or in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when
we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the recent effectiveness of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business
Combinations,  which, among other things, requires companies to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which we acquire new businesses.
        
   12   

Table of Contents  

     We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New
Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits Initially Anticipated        We seek to
achieve growth through the design, development, production, sale and support of innovative products that incorporate advanced technologies. We regularly invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts that pursue advancements in a
wide range of technologies, products and services. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of these advancements depends on a variety of factors, including meeting development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules;
execution of internal and external performance plans; availability of internal and supplier-produced parts and materials; performance of suppliers and subcontractors; achieving cost and production efficiencies, validation of innovative technologies
and the level of customer interest in new technologies and products. These factors involve significant risks and uncertainties. We may encounter difficulties in developing and producing these new products and services, and may not realize the degree
or timing of benefits initially anticipated. In particular, we cannot predict with certainty whether, when and in what quantities Pratt   Whitney or its affiliates will produce aircraft engines currently in development or pending required
certifications. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations.        We Are Subject to Litigation and Legal
Compliance Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results        We are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance
risks. These risks include, among other things, litigation concerning product liability matters, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, government contracts, taxes, environmental matters and compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws,
competition laws and sales and trading practices. We or one of our business units could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such litigation. If convicted or found liable, we could be subject to fines, penalties, repayments, other damages (in
certain cases, treble damages), or suspension or debarment from government contracts. Independently, failure of us or one of our business units to comply with applicable export and trade practice laws could result in civil or criminal penalties and
suspension or termination of export privileges. While we believe we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to address and reduce these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will
continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. For non-income tax
risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts
and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial
statements and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. For a description of current legal proceedings, see
Part I, Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  in this Form 10-K. For income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the
applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. For those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefit will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in
our financial statements. Subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which such event
occurs or on our cash flows in the period in which the ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority occurs.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         None.       

Item 2.   
   Properties          

*   
    For purposes of this table, emerging markets is based on the countries included in the Morgan Stanley Capital
International Emerging Markets Global Index   SM   .         Our fixed assets as of December 31, 2008 include manufacturing facilities and non-manufacturing facilities such as warehouses set forth in the tables above and a substantial quantity of machinery and equipment,
most of which are general purpose machinery and equipment using special jigs, tools and fixtures and in many instances having automatic control features and special adaptations. The facilities, warehouses, machinery and equipment in use as of
December 31, 2008 are in good operating condition, are well-maintained and substantially all are in regular use.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Our management believes that the fixed assets capitalized and the facilities in operation at
December 31, 2008 for the production of our products are suitable and adequate for the business conducted therein in the current business environment and have sufficient production capacity for their present intended purposes. Utilization of
the facilities varies based on demand for the products. We continuously review our anticipated requirements for facilities and, based on that review, may from time to time adjust our facility needs.      For discussion of the effect of our restructuring actions on manufacturing facilities, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.       

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         As previously disclosed, the
Department of Justice (DOJ) sued us in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, claiming that Pratt   Whitney violated the civil False Claims Act and common law. This lawsuit relates to the  Fighter Engine
Competition  between Pratt   Whitney s F100 engine and General Electric s F110 engine. The DOJ alleges that the government overpaid for F100 engines under contracts awarded by the U.S. Air Force in fiscal years 1985 through
1990 because Pratt   Whitney inflated its estimated costs for some purchased parts and withheld data that would have revealed the overstatements. At trial of this matter, completed in December 2004, the government claimed Pratt  
Whitney s liability to be $624 million. On August 1, 2008, the trial court judge held that the Air Force had not suffered any actual damages because Pratt   Whitney had made significant price
concessions. However, the trial court judge found that Pratt   Whitney violated the False Claims Act due to inaccurate statements contained in the 1983 offer. In the absence of actual damages, the trial court judge awarded
the DOJ the maximum civil penalty of $7.09 million, or $10,000 for each of the 709 invoices Pratt   Whitney submitted in 1989 and later under the contracts. Both the DOJ and UTC have appealed the decision.
Should the government ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid.
     As previously disclosed, on February 21, 2007, the European Commission s Competition Directorate (EU Commission) ruled that
Otis  subsidiaries in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, and a portion of the business of Otis  German subsidiary, violated European Union (EU) competition rules and assessed a  225 million (approximately $300 million)
civil fine against Otis, its relevant local entities, and UTC, which was paid during 2007. In May 2007, we filed an appeal of the decision before the EU s European Court of First Instance. Resolution of the matter is not expected within the
next twelve months.      As previously disclosed, during the first quarter of 2007, the Austrian Federal Competition Authority (Competition
Authority) filed a complaint with the Cartel Court in Austria (Cartel Court) against Otis  Austrian subsidiary in connection with an investigation of unlawful collusive arrangements in the Austrian elevator and escalator industry. On
December 14, 2007, the Cartel Court, at the request of the Competition Authority, assessed civil fines against the participants in the collusive arrangements, including a fine of  18.2 million (approximately $26 million) against
Otis  Austrian subsidiary, which fine was fully provided for as of December 31, 2007. Otis Austria appealed this ruling in January 2008. In October 2008, the Cartel Court denied the appeal and in December 2008, this fine was paid in full.
     As previously disclosed, in 2005 the Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) conducted an inspection at the offices of Otis Korea and its
Korean competitors with respect to collusive activities in the market for new equipment sales, and in May 2007 expanded its investigation to include pricing of subcontracts for elevator installation. In September 2008, the KFTC assessed a fine
against Otis Korea of South Korean Won 17.3 billion (approximately $15 million) with respect to the new equipment sales investigation, which we previously accrued. In November 2008, this fine was paid in full. In October 2008, the KFTC notified us
that the installation subcontractor pricing investigation had been closed without action.      In December 2008, the Department of Defense
(DOD) issued a contract claim against Sikorsky to recover overpayments the DOD alleges it has incurred since January 2003 in connection with cost accounting changes approved by the DOD and implemented by Sikorsky in 1999 and 2006. These changes
relate to the calculation of material overhead rates in government contracts. The DOD claimed that Sikorsky s liability is approximately $80 million (including interest). We believe this claim is without merit and intend to appeal.   
  Like many other industrial companies in recent years, we or our subsidiaries are named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result
of exposure to asbestos integrated into certain of our products or premises. While we have never manufactured asbestos and no longer incorporate it in any currently-manufactured products, certain of our historical products, like those of many other
manufacturers, have contained components incorporating asbestos. A substantial majority of these asbestos-related claims have been covered by insurance or other forms of indemnity or have been dismissed without payment. The remainder of the closed
cases have been resolved for amounts that are not material individually or in the aggregate. Based on the information currently available, we do not believe that resolution of these asbestos-related matters will have a material adverse effect upon
our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

   Except as otherwise noted above, we do not believe that resolution of any of the legal matters discussed
above will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. A further discussion of government contracts and related investigations, as well as a discussion of our environmental
liabilities, can be found under the heading  Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole   Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations  in Item 1,  Business,  and in Item 1A,  Risk
Factors,  in this Form 10-K.       

Item 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders         No matters were submitted to security holders for a vote during the quarter ended December 31, 2008.         PART II

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities         The Performance Graph and Comparative Stock Data appearing in our 2008 Annual Report containing the following data relating to our Common Stock:
shareholder return, principal market, quarterly high and low sales prices, approximate number of shareowners and frequency and amount of dividends are hereby incorporated by reference. The information required by Item 5 with respect to
securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K.       Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The following table provides information about our purchases of equity securities
that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended December 31, 2008.       
    We repurchase shares under a program announced on June 11, 2008, which authorized the
repurchase of up to 60 million shares of our common stock. This new authorization replaced a previous program, approved in December 2006, which was nearing completion. Under the current program, shares may be purchased on the open market, in
privately negotiated transactions and under plans complying with Rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, as amended. These repurchases are included within the scope of our overall repurchase program discussed above. We may also reacquire
shares outside of the program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover taxes on vesting of restricted stock. Approximately 7,000 shares were reacquired in transactions outside the program during the quarter.   

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data         The Five Year Summary
appearing in our 2008 Annual Report, containing revenues, net income, basic and diluted earnings per share, cash dividends per common share, total assets and long-term debt is hereby incorporated by reference. See  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements  in our 2008 Annual Report for a description of any accounting changes and acquisitions or dispositions of businesses materially affecting the comparability of the information reflected in the Five Year Summary.   

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         We hereby incorporate by reference in this Form 10-K the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations  in our 2008 Annual Report.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         For information concerning market risk sensitive instruments, see discussion under the heading  Market Risk and Risk Management  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  in our 2008 Annual Report and under the heading  Foreign Exchange and Hedging Activity  in Note 1 and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report.       

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data         The
2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheet, and other financial statements for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, together with the report thereon of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 11, 2009 in our 2008 Annual Report are incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K. The 2008 and 2007 unaudited Selected Quarterly Financial Data appearing in our 2008 Annual Report is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.       

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         None.       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures         As required by Rule 13a-15
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer (CFO) and the Vice President, Controller (Controller), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure
controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
their control objectives. Based upon our evaluation, our CEO, our CFO and our Controller concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the applicable rules and forms, and that it is accumulated and communicated to
our management, including our CEO, our CFO and our Controller, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.      Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Our management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria
set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control Integrated Framework.  Our management concluded that based on its assessment, our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2008. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in
their report which appears in our 2008 Annual Report.      There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the
quarter ended December 31, 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         PART III        

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance         The information required by Item 10 with respect to directors, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and audit committee financial experts is incorporated herein by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement for the 2009
Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled  General Information Concerning the Board of Directors,  under the headings  Nominees,   The Audit Committee,  and  The Committee on Nominations and Governance. 
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

    Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following persons are executive officers of United Technologies Corporation:       

Name    
      
     Title    
      
     Other Business Experience Since 1/1/2004    
      
   Age 2/11/09    
 
  Alain Bellemare  
      
  President, Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation (since January 2009)  
      
  President, Pratt   Whitney Canada  
      
  47   

Ari Bousbib  
      
  President, Commercial Companies and Executive Vice President (since May 2008)  
      
  President, Otis Elevator  
      
  47   

J. Thomas Bowler, Jr.  
      
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Organization (since 2007)  
      
  Vice President, Human Resources, United Technologies Corporation; Vice President, Human Resources and Organization, Pratt   Whitney  
      
  56   

William M. Brown  
      
  President, UTC Fire   Security (since 2006)  
      
  President, Asia Pacific, Carrier Corporation  
      
  46   

Louis R. Ch nevert  
      
  Director (since April 2008), President (since 2006) and Chief Executive Officer (since April 2008)  
      
  President and Chief Operating Officer, United Technologies Corporation; President, Pratt   Whitney  
      
  51   

Geraud Darnis  
      
    President, Carrier Corporation     (since
2001)   

49   

George David  
      
  Director (since 1992) and Chairman (since 1997)  
      
  Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, United Technologies Corporation; Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, United Technologies Corporation  
      
  66   

James E. Geisler  
      
  Vice President, Corporate Strategy   Planning (since September 2008)  
      
  Vice President, Finance, United Technologies Corporation; Director, Financial Planning and Analysis, United Technologies Corporation  
      
  42   

Charles D. Gill  
      
  Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since 2007)  
      
  Vice President and General Counsel, and Secretary, Carrier Corporation; Executive Assistant to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, United Technologies Corporation  
      
  44   

Gregory J. Hayes  
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since September 2008)  
      
  Vice President, Accounting and Finance, United Technologies Corporation; Vice President, Accounting and Control, United Technologies Corporation; Vice President, Controller, United Technologies
Corporation  
      
  48   

David P. Hess  
      
  President, Pratt   Whitney (since January 2009)  
      
  President, Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation; President, Hamilton Sundstrand Aerospace Power Systems  
      
  53   

Didier Michaud-Daniel  
      
  President, Otis Elevator (since May 2008)  
      
  President, Otis United Kingdom and Central Europe Area, Otis Elevator  
      
  51   
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

Name    
      
     Title    
      
     Other Business Experience Since 1/1/2004    
      
   Age 2/11/09    
 
  Jeffrey P. Pino  
      
  President, Sikorsky Aircraft (since 2006)  
      
  Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Marketing   Commercial Programs, Sikorsky Aircraft  
      
  54   

Thomas I. Rogan  
      
  Vice President, Treasurer (since 2001)  

56   

Margaret M. Smyth  
      
  Vice President, Controller (since 2007)  
      
  Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, 3M Co.; Managing Partner, Deloitte   Touche  
      
  45   
    All of the officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of United Technologies
Corporation or the subsidiary designated.      Information concerning Section 16(a) compliance is incorporated herein by reference to the
section of our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.  We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all our directors, officers, employees and
representatives. This code is publicly available on our website at http://www.investors.utc.com/utc/Static%20files/Governance/coe_english.pdf. Amendments to the code of ethics and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the code requiring
disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be disclosed on our website. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Board of Directors  Audit Committee, Finance Committee, Committee on Nominations and Governance, Public Issues
Review Committee and Committee on Compensation and Executive Development are available on our website at http://www.investors.utc.com/utc/Governance/Board_Committee_Charters.html. These materials may also be requested in print free of charge by
writing to our Investor Relations Department at United Technologies Corporation, United Technologies Building, Investor Relations, Hartford, CT 06101.       

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation         The information required by
Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled  Executive Compensation  and  Director Compensation.        

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters         The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to
the sections of our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting titled  Security Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial Owners.  The Equity Compensation Plan Information required by Item 12 is set forth in
the table below.       EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION       The following table provides information as of December 31, 2008 concerning common stock issuable under equity compensation plans.       

19   

Table of Contents  

(      1      )      
    Consists of shares of UTC Common Stock or units equal in value to a share of UTC Common Stock (e.g., restricted stock,
restricted stock units, performance share units) (Full Share Award) available for future issuance under the terms of the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (2005 LTIP). Full Share Awards will result in a reduction in the number of shares of
UTC Common Stock available for delivery under the 2005 LTIP in an amount equal to 3.1 times the number of shares to which the award corresponds. Stock options and stock appreciation rights do not constitute Full Share Awards and will result in a
reduction in the number of shares of UTC Common Stock available for delivery under the 2005 LTIP on a one-for-one basis.      

(      2      )      
    Consists of options awarded under the 1989 Long Term Incentive Plan (1989 LTIP), the 2005 LTIP and the Non-Employee
Director Stock Option Plan (Non-Employee Director Plan). Options issued under the 1989 LTIP include options that resulted from the conversion of awards granted under equity compensation plans of Sundstrand Corporation at the time it was merged into
Hamilton Sundstrand. This amount includes 281,000 restricted shares and restricted share units and 2,991,000 performance share units at the target level. Up to an additional 2,991,000 could be issued if performance goals are achieved above target.

(      3      )      
    Represents the maximum number of shares of common stock available to be awarded as of December 31, 2008.

(      4      )      
    Consists of options awarded under the UTC Employee Stock Option Plan. This Plan authorized the award of non-qualified
stock options to employees below the executive level considered to have the potential to contribute to the long-term success of UTC. These options consisted of rights to purchase a specified number of shares of UTC Common Stock at a fixed option
price equal to the fair market value of UTC Common Stock on the date the stock option was granted. Options vested three years after the grant date and have a ten-year term. Effective April 14, 2005, all equity compensation awards are now
provided under the shareowner-approved 2005 LTIP.      

(      5      )      
    Weighted-average calculation does not include restricted shares and performance share units because they have no
exercise price.          

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting titled  Transactions with Related Persons  and  General
Information Concerning the Board of Directors.        

Item 14.   
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services         The
information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting titled  Appointment of a Firm of Independent Registered Public Accountants to Serve as Independent Auditors for
2009,  including information provided with  Audit Fees,   Audit Related Fees,   Tax Fees  and  All Other Fees.          PART IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          

(a)  
  Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits         

(1)  
  Financial Statements (incorporated by reference from the 2008 Annual Report):         

Page Number in Annual Report    
 
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
      
  24   

Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2008   
      
  25   

Consolidated Balance Sheet December 31, 2008 and 2007   
      
  26   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2008   
      
  27   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
      
  29   

Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   
      
  51   

Page Number in Form 10-K    
 
     SCHEDULE I Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement
Schedule    
      
  S-I   

SCHEDULE II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  S-II   
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

   All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in
the financial statements or the notes thereto.       
    The following list of exhibits includes
exhibits submitted with this Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those incorporated by reference to other filings.       

Exhibit       Number    

3(i)   
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, restated as of May 8, 2006, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal
year ended December 31, 2006.   

3(ii)   
     
  Bylaws as amended and restated effective December 10, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the SEC
on December 12, 2008.   

4.1   
     
  Amended and Restated Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, between UTC and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to UTC s Registration Statement on Form
S-3 (Commission file number 333-60276) filed with the SEC on May 4, 2001). UTC hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of each other instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of UTC and its consolidated
subsidiaries and any unconsolidated subsidiaries.   

10.1   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812)
for fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 as amended January 1, 2009.*   

10.2   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Executive Estate Preservation Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iv) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for
fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.   

10.3   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan, as amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005.*   

10.4   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Senior Executive Severance Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(vi) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal
year ended December 31, 1992, and Amendment thereto, effective December 10, 2003, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and Amendment
thereto, effective June 11, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of UTC s Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008.   

10.5   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005.*   

10.6   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for
fiscal year ended December 31, 1989, as amended by Amendment No. 1 filed as Exhibit 10.6 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and Amendment No. 2 filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.   

10.7   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Executive Leadership Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to UTC s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the
quarterly period ended September 30, 2004, as amended.   

10.8   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Directors  Restricted Stock/Unit Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(xiii) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.   

10.9   
     
  United Technologies Corporation Board of Directors Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended and restated October 8, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to UTC s Report on Form 10-Q
(Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008.   
       
   21   

Table of Contents  

22   

Table of Contents  

23   

Table of Contents  

10.27  
     
  Form of Award Agreement for performance share unit and stock appreciation rights awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (previously filed as Exhibit
10.1 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the SEC on April 11, 2008), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the
SEC on December 20, 2005.   

10.28  
     
  Schedule of Terms for performance share unit awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current Report
on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the SEC on April 11, 2008).*   

10.29  
     
  Schedule of Terms for stock appreciation rights awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current
Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the SEC on April 11, 2008).*   

10.30  
     
  United Technologies Corporation Executive Leadership Group Agreement, as amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number
1-812) filed with the SEC on March 24, 2006.   

10.31  
     
  Form of Agreement for Executive Leadership Group Restricted Share Unit Retention Awards, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file
number 1-812) filed with the SEC on March 24, 2006.   

10.32  
     
  Schedule of Terms for Executive Leadership Restricted Share Unit Awards, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed
with the SEC on March 24, 2006.   

10.33  
     
  United Technologies Corporation Board of Directors 2006 Retainer Payment Election Form, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number
1-812) filed with the SEC on April 18, 2006.   

10.34  
     
  Form of Award Agreement for Performance Share Units and Stock Appreciation Rights Awards relating to the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current
Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the SEC on April 11, 2008), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2006.   

10.35  
     
  United Technologies Corporation International Deferred Compensation Replacement Plan, effective January 1, 2005.*   

10.36  
     
  United Technologies Corporation LTIP Performance Share Unit Deferral Plan, relating to the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Current Report on Form
8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the SEC on April 11, 2008).*   

11  
     
  Statement Re: Computations of Per Share Earnings.*   

12  
     
  Statement Re: Computation of Ratios.*   

13  
     
  Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 (except for the information therein expressly incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report is provided solely for the
information of the SEC and is not to be deemed  filed  as part of this Form 10-K).*   

14  
     
  Code of Ethics. The UTC Code of Ethics may be accessed via UTC s website at http://www.investors.utc.com/utc/Static%20files/Governance/coe_english.pdf.   

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.*   
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Exhibits List:   

*  
  Submitted electronically herewith.        Exhibits 10.1 through 10.36 are
contracts, arrangements or compensatory plans filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of the requirements for Form 10-K reports.      Attached as Exhibit
100 to this report are the following formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) for the year ended December 31, 2008: (i) Consolidated Statement of Operations, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iii) Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows, (iv) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements tagged in Block Text format. Users of this data are advised pursuant to Rule 401 of Regulation S-T that the information
contained in the XBRL documents is unaudited and these are not the official publicly filed financial statements of United Technologies Corporation. The purpose of submitting these XBRL formatted documents is to test the related format and technology
and, as a result, investors should continue to rely on the official filed version of the furnished documents and not rely on this information in making investment decisions.      In accordance with Rule 402 of Regulation S-T, the XBRL related information in Exhibit 100 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange
Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by
specific reference in such filing.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION   
 
  (Registrant)   

By:  
     
    /s/ G REGORY  J. H AYES     

Gregory J. Hayes    

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

By:  
     
    /s/ M ARGARET  M. S MYTH     

Margaret M. Smyth    

Vice President, Controller    
 
   Date: February 11, 2009      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ G EORGE  D AVID    
      
  Director, Chairman  
     
  February 11, 2009   
 
     (George David)    

/s/ L OUIS  R. C H NEVERT    
      
  Director, President and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  February 11, 2009   
 
     (Louis R. Ch nevert)    

/s/ G REGORY  J. H AYES    
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
     
  February 11, 2009   
 
     (Gregory J. Hayes)    

/s/ M ARGARET  M. S MYTH    
      
  Vice President, Controller  
     
  February 11, 2009   
 
     (Margaret M. Smyth)    

/s/ J OHN  V. F ARACI *   
      
  Director            )  

(John V. Faraci)    

/s/ J EAN -P IERRE  G ARNIER *   
      
  Director            )  

(Jean-Pierre Garnier)    

/s/ J AMIE  S. G ORELICK  *   
      
  Director            )  

(Jamie S. Gorelick)    

/s/ E DWARD  A. K ANGAS  *   
      
  Director            )  

(Edward A. Kangas )    

/s/ C HARLES  R. L EE *   
      
  Director            )  

(Charles R. Lee)    

/s/ R ICHARD  D. M C C ORMICK *   
      
  Director            )  

(Richard D. McCormick)    

26   

Table of Contents  

/s/ H AROLD  W. M C G RAW  III*   
      
  Director            )  

(Harold W. McGraw III)    

/s/ R ICHARD  B. M YERS *   
      
  Director            )  

(Richard B. Myers)    

/s/ H. P ATRICK  S WYGERT *   
      
  Director            )  

(H. Patrick Swygert)    

/s/ A NDR   V ILLENEUVE *   
      
  Director            )  

(Andr  Villeneuve)    

/s/ C HRISTINE  T ODD  W HITMAN *   
      
  Director            )  

(Christine Todd Whitman)    

*By:  
     
    /s/ Charles D. Gill   

Charles D. Gill   

Senior Vice President and       General Counsel, as Attorney-in-Fact    

Date: February 11, 2009         
   27   

Table of Contents  

       SCHEDULE I         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE       To the Board of Directors      of United Technologies Corporation:      Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 11, 2009 appearing in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareowners of United Technologies Corporation (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.       
       
   S-I   

Table of Contents  

       SCHEDULE II         UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        Three Years Ended December 31, 2008        (Millions of Dollars)        Allowances for Doubtful
Accounts and Other Customer Financing Activity:        
       
   S-II   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 UTC ANNUAL EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

UTC Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.1        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        ANNUAL EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN         Amendment 2        The United Technologies
Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2009, by adding Article VII as follows:       VII. RECOUPMENT OF PAYMENTS        A. MANDATORY RECOUPMENT OF AWARD PAYMENTS . Any Employee or former Employee who received
an award under this Plan shall be obligated to repay to the Corporation all or a portion of the amount received in connection with a fiscal year in which:      (i) there was a restatement of earnings for the Corporation or a business unit; or      (ii) there was a
recalculation of a financial or other performance metric related to the determination of an annual incentive compensation award; and      (iii)
the Employee was involved in the formulation of the incorrect statement of earnings or calculation of a performance metric; and      (iv) the
inaccuracies were attributable, in whole or in part, to the Employee s negligence or intentional misconduct; and      (v) the restated
earnings or corrected performance measurement would have (or likely would have) resulted in a smaller award than the amount actually received by the Employee.       B. AMOUNT SUBJECT TO RECOUPMENT.  The minimum amount subject to repayment by an award recipient under the circumstances described in Section A will equal the difference between the actual amount of an award and
the amount that would have been paid, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, had the correct earnings or other performance measurement been utilized in the determination of the amount of the award. The Committee may require repayment
of an amount greater than the calculated adjustment, based on its review of the facts involved.       C. DISCRETIONARY RECOUPMENT OF AWARD
PAYMENTS.  The Committee reserves the right to require repayment of awards from Employees who were not involved in a financial restatement or erroneous performance measurement  

computation if the Committee determines that, as a result of the disparity between actual performance and inaccurate performance data used in determining
awards, it would not be appropriate to maintain awards at the levels paid prior to the adjustment or re-calculation. Discretionary adjustments under this paragraph shall not be permitted after the occurrence of a  Change in Control,  as
defined in the Corporation s Long Term Incentive Plan.       D. ADMINISTRATION.  The Committee shall be responsible for making
determinations under this Article VII. Its decisions shall be binding and conclusive on all Award recipients. If an Employee refuses to repay all or a portion of an award, as requested by the Committee, such Employee shall be responsible for
attorney s fees and other costs incurred by the Corporation to secure the requested repayment amount.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.3>
 3
 dex103.htm
 UTC PENSION PRESERVATION PLAN

UTC Pension Preservation Plan 

Exhibit 10.3        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        PENSION PRESERVATION PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2005       WHEREAS, United Technologies Corporation (the  Corporation ) established the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan (the  Preservation Plan ) effective January 1, 1978 for
the benefit of certain employees; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation established the United Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan
(the  Replacement Plan ) effective April 1, 1985 for the benefit of certain employees; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation
reserved the right to amend the Preservation Plan through the action of its Pension Administration Committee (the  PAC  and      WHEREAS, the Corporation reserved the right to terminate and amend the Replacement Plan through the action of the PAC; and      WHEREAS, at its meeting of December 8, 2006, the PAC approved the merger of the Replacement Plan into the Preservation Plan, effective December 31, 2006; and      WHEREAS, the merger is intended to simplify administration and communication of the programs operated under the respective Plans, which have effectively
been, for all practical purposes, operated as a single program;      WHEREAS, Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code requires the
amendment of both the Replacement Plan and the Preservation Plan;         
   Page 1   

WHEREAS, From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Replacement Plan and the
Preservation Plan have been operated in good faith compliance with Section 409A in accordance with guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service;      NOW, THEREFORE, effective December 31, 2006, the Replacement Plan is hereby merged into the Preservation Plan, and the Preservation Plan is amended and restated; and      NOW, THEREFORE, effective January 1, 2005, the merged Preservation Plan is hereby amended and restated to reflect the requirements of
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code as follows:      1.  INTRODUCTION   PURPOSE       The United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan (the  Preservation Plan ) is maintained as an unfunded plan solely for the purpose
of providing retirement benefits in excess of the retirement and survivor benefits that may be paid from tax-qualified retirement plans due to (i) benefit limitations imposed by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time (the  Code ) and (ii) the limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code on compensation that may be taken into account in computing retirement benefits under tax-qualified retirement plans (referred to
collectively as the  Limits ). The Preservation Plan restores the amount of the retirement benefit or survivor benefit that may not be paid from the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan (or any other tax-qualified
defined benefit retirement plan sponsored by the Corporation) (the  Qualified Retirement Plan ) as a result of the Limits so that the total actuarial present value of the Qualified Retirement Plan and Pension Preservation Plan benefits
equals the actuarial present value of the retirement benefit or survivor benefit that would be paid from the Qualified Retirement Plan if such Plan were administered without regard to the Limits. Effective with the merger of the Replacement Plan
into this Plan, the amount of any reduction of Qualified Plan Retirement benefits resulting from the deferral of compensation that would otherwise be recognized under the Qualified Retirement Plans shall be provided under this Plan. The Preservation
Plan shall be administered and construed to effectuate the foregoing intent.         
   Page 2   

2.  EFFECTIVE DATE       The Preservation Plan became effective on January 1, 1978. Except to the extent otherwise specifically provided herein, the Preservation Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, to
reflect the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Preservation Plan, as amended and restated, applies to amounts that were earned or vested after December 31, 2004 under the Preservation and Replacement Plans.
Amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A) under either the Preservation Plan or the Replacement Plan before January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are treated as grandfathered
benefits under Section 409A, are subject to and shall continue to be governed by the terms of the Prior Plans as set forth in Appendix A and Appendix B as applicable. The Preservation Plan is further amended and restated effective
December 31, 2006 to effectuate the merger of the Replacement Plan into the Preservation Plan effective December 31, 2006.      From
January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Preservation Plan has been operated in good faith compliance with Section 409A in accordance with guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service and provided for the following during
this good faith compliance period:       

(a)  
  Continued commencement of benefits under this Plan and the Qualified Retirement Plan;         

(b)  
  Allowance of new payment elections by participants to comply with 409A requirements; and         

(c)  
  Prohibited acceleration of any payments that would otherwise have been made in a later year and prohibited deferral to a later year of a payment that would otherwise have been made
in the current year.           
   Page 3   

3.  DEFINITIONS       Any capitalized terms used herein that are not defined in this Section 3 shall have the meanings given to them by the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.       Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated in writing by a Participant to receive the value of his or
her Current Plan Benefit in the event of the Participant s death, , in accordance with the terms of this Plan. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary under this Plan, the Beneficiary or Contingent Annuitant shall be determined under
the Qualified Retirement Plan. If the Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant or if no Beneficiary is designated under the Qualified Retirement Plan, the value of the Participant s Plan Benefit will be
payable to the estate of the Participant, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.       Compensation Reduction  means a reduction in
compensation otherwise recognized under the Qualified Retirement Plan (without regard to the Limits) by reason of a Participant s participation in the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan.       Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto. Reference to any section of the Internal
Revenue Code shall include any final regulations or other published guidance interpreting that section.       Corporation  means United
Technologies Corporation.       Current Plan Benefit  means amounts credited on or after January 1, 2005 under either the
Preservation or Replacement Plans.         
   Page 4   

Disability  means permanent and total disability as determined under the Corporation s
long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant, or if there is no such plan applicable to the Participant,  Disability  means a determination of total disability by the Social Security Administration; provided that, in either
case, the Participant s condition also qualifies as a  disability  for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code.       Election Form  means the form provided to Participants electronically or in paper form for the purpose of electing the form of payment for a Current Plan Benefit.       Prior Plans  means the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan, as in effect on December 31, 2004, as set forth in Appendix
A and the United Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan, as in effect on December 31, 2004, as set forth in Appendix B.       Prior Preservation Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan, as in effect on December 31, 2004, as set forth in Appendix A. All amounts earned and vested under the Prior Preservation Plan as of
December 31, 2004, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Preservation Plan and
shall not be affected by this amendment and restatement.       Prior Replacement Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Pension
Replacement Plan, as in effect on December 31, 2004, as set forth in Appendix B. All amounts earned and vested under the Prior Replacement Plan as of December 31, 2004, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be
treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Replacement Plan and shall not be affected by this amendment and restatement.       Prior Plan Benefit  means the aggregate value of the Prior Preservation Plan Benefit and Prior Replacement Plan Benefit as identified in
Section 6, which are valued and administered separately in accordance with the terms and procedures in effect under the Prior Plans.         
   Page 5   

Qualified Retirement Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan (or
any other tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plan sponsored by the Corporation or a UTC Company).       Separation from Service
 means a Participant s Termination of Employment with all UTC Companies, other than by reason of death or Disability, that qualifies as a  separation from service  for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. A Separation from
Service will be deemed to occur where the Participant and the UTC Company that employs the Participant reasonably anticipate that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether as an employee or as an independent contractor)
will be permanently reduced to a level that is less than thirty-seven and a half percent (37.5%) of the average level of bona fide services the Participant performed during the immediately preceding 36 months (or the entire period the
Participant has provided services if the Participant has been providing services to the UTC Companies for less than 36 months.) A Participant shall not be considered to have had a Separation from Service as a result of a transfer from one UTC
Company to another UTC Company.       Specified Employee  means each of the 50
highest-paid executives of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries effective annually as of March 31   st   , based on annual salary and incentive
compensation paid in the prior year. The term includes both U.S. and non-U.S. employees.       UTC Company  means United Technologies
Corporation or any entity controlled by or under common control with United Technologies Corporation within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (but substituting  at least 20 percent  for  at least 80
percent  as the control threshold used in applying Sections 414(b) and (c)).      4.  ELIGIBILITY       Each employee of a UTC Company who is a Participant in the Qualified Retirement Plan shall be eligible to participate in the Preservation Plan if and to
the extent such employee s compensation increases such that the Participant s Accrued Benefit under the Qualified  
       
   Page 6   

Retirement Plan is limited by (i) provisions of the Qualified Retirement Plan that are designed solely to comply with the Limits; or (ii) such
employee experiences a Compensation Reduction. In no event shall any person who is not entitled to benefits under the Qualified Retirement Plan be eligible for retirement benefits or survivor benefits under this Preservation Plan. An employee of the
UTC Companies who is eligible for retirement benefits under the Preservation Plan and has completed three years of  continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008) shall be referred
to herein as a  Participant.       5.  DETERMINATION OF PRESERVATION PLAN BENEFIT       The amount of the retirement benefit or survivor benefit payable from the Preservation Plan to or in respect of a Participant shall equal the excess, if
any, of (a) over (b), and for purposes of this calculation, it shall be assumed that Qualified Retirement Plan Benefit and Preservation Plan Benefit commence at the same time, where      (a) equals the retirement benefit or survivor benefit that would be paid to such Participant (or on his or her behalf to his Contingent Annuitant or
Beneficiary) under the Qualified Retirement Plan if the provisions of the Qualified Retirement Plan were administered without regard to the Limits and Compensation Reduction; and      (b) equals the retirement benefit or survivor benefit payable to such Participant (or on his or her behalf to his or her Contingent Annuitant or
Beneficiary) under the Qualified Retirement Plan.      6.  PLAN BENEFITS       (a) Prior Plan Benefit. Benefits accrued under the Prior Plan are not intended to be subject to Section 409A of the Code. No amendment to Appendix A or Appendix B that would constitute a  material
modification  for purposes of Section 409A shall be effective unless the amending instrument states that it is intended to materially modify Appendix A and/or Appendix B and to cause the Prior Plan(s) to become subject to
Section 409A. Although the Prior Plan  
       
   Page 7   

Benefit is not intended to be subject to Section 409A, neither the UTC Companies nor any director, officer, or other representative of a UTC Company
shall be liable for any adverse tax consequence suffered by a Participant or Beneficiary if a Prior Plan Benefit becomes subject to Section 409A.      (i)  Prior Preservation Plan Benefit       Amounts that were credited before
January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A of the Code, shall be maintained and accounted for separately and shall remain subject to the
terms and conditions of the Prior Plan, as set forth in Appendix A.      (ii)  Prior Replacement Plan Benefit       Amounts that were credited before January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be treated as
grandfathered benefits under Section 409A of the Code, shall be maintained and accounted for separately and shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan, as set forth in Appendix B.      (b) Current Plan Benefit. Current Plan Benefit shall include amounts credited to Participants under either the Preservation or Replacement Plans on or
after January 1, 2005.      7.  FORM OF PRESERVATION PLAN BENEFIT       (a) The Committee shall determine, as of the earlier of the Participant s Separation from Service or the Participant s date of death, that portion of the Participant s total retirement benefit or
survivor benefit that is to be paid under the Preservation Plan, using the same formula that is used under the UTC Employee Retirement Plan to calculate such Participant s benefit. The Committee will apply either the Final Average Earnings
(FAE) formula, Cash Balance (CB) formula, or both as applicable to each Participant under the Qualified Retirement Plan. The Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be paid to the Participant, or on his  
       
   Page 8   

or her behalf to any Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary (as designated under the Qualified Retirement Plan), as a monthly annuity, unless a timely election
is made in accordance with Subparagraph (c) of this Section 7.      (b) A Participant may elect separate payment methods for Prior
and Current Plan Benefits. Prior Plan Benefit elections are administered separately in accordance with the terms and procedures in effect under the Prior Plans, as set forth in Appendices A and B.      (c) Unless a Participant elects a form of the benefit payment for Current Plan Benefit, benefits earned under the Preservation Plan will be paid as a
single life annuity or actuarially equivalent life annuity. A Participant may elect to receive a single lump-sum payment or a series of 2 to 10 annual installment payments. A payment election under the Plan shall be made on an electronic or written
Election Form, completed and submitted to the UTC Pension Service Center no later than December 31st of the calendar year prior to the year in which the period of service commences on which the benefit is based. A change in actuarially
equivalent annuities shall not be deemed to be a change in payment election for purposes of this Plan. Except as provided below in Subsection (d), a Participant s payment election shall become irrevocable on the election deadline date.
     (d) Change in Payment Election. A Participant may make an election to change the form of payment that the Participant elected under
Section 7(c), subject to the following requirements:      (i) The new election must be made at least twelve months prior to the date
payments are scheduled to commence (and the new election shall be ineffective if the payment commencement date occurs within twelve months after the date of the new election);      (ii) The new election will not take effect until at least twelve months after the date when the Participant submits a new Election Form to the UTC Pension
Service Center; and         
   Page 9   

(iii) The new benefit payment commencement date must be five years later than the date on which payments
commence under the current election.      (e) If a Participant s benefit is calculated under the FAE formula and the Participant elects to
have his or her Preservation Plan benefit paid in the form of a single lump-sum or annual installment distribution, the Actuarially Equivalent present value of the Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be determined using
the RP-2000 Group Annuity Mortality Table and interest assumption equal to the average yield for tax-free municipal bonds of 10-year maturities, averaged over the prior 5 calendar years. For purposes of computing this interest assumption, the
Actuary shall utilize the Barclays Capital 10-Year Municipal Bond Index, averaging the published yield for 10-year maturities (credit quality AA or above) on the last business day of the year over the most recent 5 consecutive full calendar year
period. This rate shall be adjusted annually at the beginning of each calendar year.      (f) The payment of a monthly annuity, lump-sum or
annual installment distribution in accordance with this Section 7 shall be in full satisfaction of all of the Corporation s obligations with respect to the Participant under the Preservation Plan.      8.  DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFIT       (a) Except as provided in
Section 7(d) (concerning the five-year delay following a Change in Payment Election), Section 8(b) (concerning distributions to Specified Employees), the value of a Participant s Preservation Plan Benefit will be distributed (or begin
to be distributed) to the Participant as follows:      (i) If a Participant s benefit is calculated under the FAE formula only, the benefit
will be paid to Participant on the first of the month following the later of a Participant s Separation from Service, or when the Participant reaches age 55;         
   Page 10   

(ii) If a Participant s benefit is calculated under the CB formula only, the benefit will be paid to
Participant on the first of the month following the Participant s Separation from Service;      (iii) If a Participant s benefit is
calculated under both the FAE and CB formulas, the benefit will be paid to the Participant according to the rules outlined above in Subsections (i) and (ii) for the corresponding portions of the benefit.      (b) Separation from Service of Specified Employees. If the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of the Participant s Separation from
Service, distribution of the Participant s Current Plan Benefit to the Participant that is made on account of the Participant s Separation from Service will not be made or commence earlier than the first day of the seventh month following
the date of Separation from Service.      (c) Administrative Adjustments in Payment Date. A payment is treated as being made on the date when
it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (i) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or before September 30), or (ii) by
the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1). A payment also is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the
payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan. In no event, will a payment to a Specified Employee be made or commence earlier than the first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service. A
Participant may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this Section 8(c).      9.  DISTRIBUTION IN THE EVENT OF DEATH       (a) If a Participant s benefit (or portion of a benefit) is calculated under the
FAE formula and the Participant has not made an election to receive his or her Pension Preservation Plan Benefit in a lump sum or installments as of the date of death, any survivor benefits will be paid as a life annuity subject to the following:
     (i) If death occurs prior to age 55 with five years of service, the spouse of the Participant shall receive a 50% Contingent Annuity
Benefit beginning on the date the Participant would have attained his or her 55th birthday. If the Participant is unmarried, no Plan benefit is payable.         
   Page 11   

(ii) If death occurs prior to age 55 with ten years of service, the spouse of the Participant shall
receive a 100% Contingent Annuity Benefit beginning on the date the Participant would have attained his or her 55th birthday. If the Participant is unmarried, no Plan benefit is payable.      (iii) If death occurs on or after attainment of age 55 with ten years of service or attainment of age 65, survivor benefits shall be paid as a 100%
Contingent Annuity Benefit beginning on the first business day of the month following the Participant s death in the following order:      (1) to the Spouse of the Participant, if the Participant is married at the time of death;      (2) to the named Beneficiary or
contingent annuitant, if the Participant is not married at the time of death;      (3) to the children of the Participant if the Participant
has not designated a Beneficiary prior to his or her death; or      (4) to the estate of the Participant, if the Participant has no children at
the time of his or her death.      If the Participant is not married at the time of death and the Participant has not designated
a Beneficiary or contingent annuitant, the benefit shall be payable as:      (1) a 10-year certain actuarially equivalent annuity to the
children of the Participant; or         
   Page 12   

(2) a 5-year certain actuarially equivalent annuity to the estate of the Participant.      (b) If a Participant s benefit (or portion of a benefit) is calculated under the FAE formula and the Participant has made an election to receive his
or her Preservation Plan Benefit in a lump sum or annual installments in accordance with Section 7(c) herein, such Participant shall have survivor benefits paid to his or her Beneficiary as follows: If death occurs prior to age 55, the
Preservation Plan accrued benefit shall be paid in a lump sum payment as of the date the Participant would have attained his or her 55th birthday. If death occurs after the benefit commencement date but before all annual installments have been paid,
the remaining installments will be paid to his or her Beneficiary as scheduled.      (c) If a Participant s benefit (or portion of a
benefit) is calculated under the CB formula, the Participant shall have survivor benefits paid in a lump sum on the first business day of the month following the Participant s death as follows:      (i) to the Spouse of the Participant, if the Participant is married at the time of death;      (ii) to the named Beneficiary or contingent annuitant, if the Participant is not married at the time of death;      (iii) to the children of the Participant if the Participant has not designated a Beneficiary prior to his or her death; or      (iv) to the estate of the Participant, if the Participant has no children at the time of his or her death.      10.  DISABILITY       In the event of the disability of a
Participant, the Participant s Plan Benefit will be maintained and distributed in accordance with the Participant s elections on file.         
   Page 13   

11.  MINIMUM BALANCE PAYOUT PROVISION       If the value of a Participant s Current Plan Benefit, determined at the time of the Participant s Separation From Service is less than one-hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), the Committee will distribute
the Participant s entire Current Plan Benefit in a lump sum on the first business day following the Participant s Separation From Service, notwithstanding a Participant s election to receive a different form of distribution.
     12.  FUNDING       The Preservation Plan
shall be maintained as an unfunded Plan that is not intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section 401 of the Code. Except in the event of a Change in Control of the Corporation (as described in Section 13 hereof), all benefits
under the Preservation Plan shall be payable solely from the general assets of the Corporation. In this regard, the rights of each Participant, Contingent Annuitant and Beneficiary under the Preservation Plan with respect to his or her Preservation
Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No Participant, Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary hereunder shall be entitled to receive any benefits payable under the Preservation
Plan from the assets of the Qualified Retirement Plan, nor shall the Corporation undertake to set aside assets in trust or otherwise segregate assets to fund its obligations under the Preservation Plan except as provided in Section 13 hereof.
     13.  CHANGE OF CONTROL       In the event of
a Change of Control of the Corporation, the Corporation shall immediately fully fund the value of all Accrued Benefit under the Preservation Plan, determined by the Actuary as of the date of the Change of Control, provided the funding is not
proximate to a downturn in the Corporation s financial health within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(C)(1). The required proceeds will be contributed to the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan
Retirement Security Trust, a rabbi trust, and such proceeds will be held and maintained in the United States. In addition, if the United  
       
   Page 14   

Technologies Corporation Board of Directors Committee on Compensation and Executive Development takes any action under the United Technologies Corporation
Long Term Incentive Plan (the  LTIP ), including, without limitation, the accelerated vesting or other adjustment to outstanding LTIP awards in anticipation of (i) a Change of Control (ii) an event, which if consummated, would
constitute a Change of Control or (iii) any other significant change pertaining to the ownership of the Corporation, the Corporation shall then also immediately fund the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan Retirement
Security Trust, a rabbi trust, provided the funding is not proximate to a downturn in the Corporation s financial health within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(C)(1); and further provided such funds are held and
maintained in the United States. For purposes of this Section 13,  Change of Control  shall have the meaning given to that term under the LTIP.      14.  NONASSIGNABILITY       No Participant, Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary or any other person shall have the right to sell,
assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Preservation Plan. All Preservation Plan benefits are unassignable and non-transferable and shall not be subject to attachment or seizure for the payment of any debts, judgments or
other obligations. No Preservation Plan interest shall be transferred by operation of law in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of a Participant, Contingent Annuitant, or Beneficiary.      15.  NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT       Participation in the
Preservation Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between the Corporation and the Participant. Nothing in the Preservation Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the
service of the Corporation for any length of time. Participants, Contingent Annuitants and Beneficiaries shall have no rights against the Corporation resulting from participation in the Preservation Plan other than as specifically provided herein.
        
   Page 15   

16.  OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION       The Preservation Plan shall be administered by the Pension Administration and Investment Committee of United Technologies Corporation (the  Committee ). The Committee shall have the right to delegate its
responsibilities hereunder to sub-committees and individuals. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under the Preservation Plan shall be determined by the Committee (or its delegate) in its full discretion, and its decision shall
be final and binding upon all parties.      17.  TAXES/WITHHOLDING       The Corporation shall have the right to withhold taxes from Preservation Plan benefit accruals and payments to the extent it reasonably determines such withholding to be required by law to be withheld from such
credits and payments.      18.  GOVERNING LAW       The Preservation Plan shall be construed, administered and enforced in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), and to the extent not preempted thereby, the laws of the State of
Connecticut (disregarding its choice-of-law rules).      19.  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION       (a) The Corporation expects to continue the Preservation Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right, by action of the Committee, to amend or terminate the
Preservation Plan at any time, provided, however, that no such action shall decrease any benefits accrued under the Preservation Plan as of the date of such action. Although the benefits accrued under the Preservation Plan are not subject to the
restrictions imposed by Section 204(g) of ERISA, the proviso in the preceding sentence shall be construed in a manner consistent with Section 204(g) of ERISA. As a result, the proviso referred to in the preceding sentence imposes
restrictions identical with the restrictions that would be imposed on the Preservation Plan if the Preservation Plan were subject to Section 204(g) of ERISA.         
   Page 16   

(b) Upon the termination of the Plan with respect to all Participants, and termination of all
arrangements sponsored by the Corporation or its affiliates that would be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A of the Code, the Corporation shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and notwithstanding any elections made by the
Participant, to pay the Participant s vested Benefit in a lump sum, to the extent permitted under Section 409A. All payments that may be made pursuant to this Section 19(b) shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth month and no
later than the twenty-fourth month after the termination of the Plan. The Corporation may not accelerate payments pursuant to this Section 19(b) if the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in the Corporation s financial
health within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(C)(1). If the Corporation exercises its discretion to accelerate payments under this Section 19(b), it shall not adopt any new arrangement that would have been aggregated
with this Plan under Section 409A within three years following the date of the Plan s termination.      20.  COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A 
     To the extent that rights or payments under this Plan are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Preservation Plan
shall be construed and administered in compliance with the conditions of Section 409A and regulations and other guidance issued pursuant to Section 409A for deferral of income taxation until the time the compensation is paid. Any
distribution election that would not comply with Section 409A of the Code shall not be effective for purposes of this Plan. To the extent that a provision of this Plan does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be
void and without effect. The Corporation does not warrant that the Preservation Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment. In no event shall a UTC Company; any director,
officer, or employee of a UTC Company (other than the Participant); or any member of the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Preservation Plan s failure to
satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other requirements of applicable tax laws.         
   Page 17   

21.  SUCCESSORS       The provisions of the Preservation Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, and its successors and assigns. The term successors shall include any corporate or other business entity that by merger,
consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation and successors of any such Corporation or other entity.      22.  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURE       (a) The Committee shall establish and communicate procedures for
Participants to obtain forms required to effect elections and designations under the Plan. The Committee may establish a telephonic communication system to facilitate the administration of the Plan and to provide information to Participants,
provided that any estimate of a Participant s current or projected accrued benefit shall in no event be binding on the Committee in the event of any discrepancy between such estimate and a Participant s actual accrued benefit, which, in
all cases, shall control. Upon notification of the death of any Participant while in the employment of the Employer, the Committee may initiate any claim on behalf of the Spouse, Contingent Annuitant, or Beneficiary.      (b) A Participant or Beneficiary who believes that he or she has been denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (referred to in this
Section 22 as a  Claimant ) may file a written request with the Committee setting forth the claim. The Committee shall consider and resolve the claim as set forth below.      (i) Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee or its designated agent shall advise the Claimant that a response will be forthcoming within 90 days. The
Committee may, however, extend the response period for up to an additional 90  
       
   Page 18   

days for reasonable cause, and shall notify the Claimant of the reason for the extension and the expected response date. The Committee or its designated
agent shall respond to the claim within the specified period.      (ii) If the claim is denied in whole or part, the Committee shall provide the
Claimant with a written decision, using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant, setting forth (1) the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (2) the specific reference to relevant provisions of this Plan on which such
denial is based; (3) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation why such material or such information is necessary; (4) appropriate information as to
the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; (5) the time limits for requesting a review of the claim; and (6) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
     (iii) Within 60 days after the Claimant s receipt of the written decision denying the claim in whole or in part, the Claimant may
request a review of such determination by filing a notice of appeal in writing with the Benefit Claims Appeal Committee (the  Benefits Appeal Committee ). Such notice must set forth all relevant factors upon which the appeal is based. The
Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, review the relevant documents and submit issues and comment in writing for consideration by the Benefits Appeal Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review of the
initial determination within such 60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred from challenging the determination.      (iv) Within 60 days after
the Benefits Appeal Committee receives a request for review, it will review the initial determination. If special circumstances require that the 60-day time period be extended, the Benefits Appeal Committee will so notify the Claimant and will
render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review.         
   Page 19   

(v) The Benefits Appeal Committee shall have the greatest discretion permitted by law in making decisions
pursuant to this Section 22. All decisions on review shall be final and binding with respect to all concerned parties. The decision on review shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, (1) the specific
reasons for the decision, including references to the relevant Plan provisions upon which the decision is based; (2) the Claimant s right to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents,
records, and other information, relevant to his or her benefits; and (3) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA       
  
   Page 20   

Appendix A       This Appendix A sets forth the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan, as in effect on December 31, 2004 ( Prior Preservation Plan ), and as modified thereafter from time to time in a
manner that does not constitute a  material modification  for purposes of Section 409A. Amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A) prior to January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these
amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, are generally subject to and shall continue to be governed by the terms of this Prior Preservation Plan.         
   Page 21   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        PENSION PRESERVATION PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1996
      1.  INTRODUCTION   PURPOSE       The United
Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan (the  Preservation Plan ) is maintained as an unfunded plan solely for the purpose of providing retirement benefits in excess of the retirement and survivor benefits that may be paid from
tax-qualified retirement plans due to (i) benefit limitations imposed by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the  Code ) and (ii) the limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17)
of the Code on compensation that may be taken into account in computing retirement benefits under tax-qualified retirement plans (referred to collectively as the  Limits ). The Preservation Plan restores the amount of the retirement
benefit or survivor benefit that is not paid from the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan (or any other tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plan sponsored by the Corporation) (the  Qualified Retirement Plan ) as a
result of the Limits so that the total actuarial present value of the Qualified Retirement Plan and Pension Preservation Plan benefits equals the actuarial present value of the retirement benefit or survivor benefit that would be paid from the
Qualified Retirement Plan if such Plan were administered without regard to the Limits. The Preservation Plan shall be administered and construed to effectuate the foregoing intent.      The capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings given to them by the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.         
   Page 22   

2.  EFFECTIVE DATE       The Preservation Plan became effective on January 1, 1978. This amendment and restatement of the Preservation Plan shall be effective January 1, 1996, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided
herein.      3.  ELIGIBILITY       An employee of United
Technologies Corporation (the  Corporation ) or an affiliate thereof who is a Participant in the Qualified Retirement Plan shall be eligible to participate in the Preservation Plan if and to the extent the Participant s Accrued
Benefit under the Qualified Retirement Plan is reduced or limited by provisions of the Qualified Retirement Plan that are designed solely to comply with the Limits. In no event shall any person who is not entitled to benefits under the Qualified
Retirement Plan be eligible for retirement benefits or survivor benefits under the Preservation Plan. An employee of the Corporation or an affiliate thereof who is eligible for retirement benefits under the Preservation Plan shall be referred to
herein as a  Participant.       4.  DETERMINATION OF PRESERVATION PLAN BENEFIT       The amount of the retirement benefit or survivor benefit payable from the Preservation Plan to or in respect of a Participant shall equal the excess, if any, of (a) over (b), where       

(a)  
  equals the retirement benefit or survivor benefit that would be paid to such Participant (or on his or her behalf to his Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary) under the Qualified
Retirement Plan if the provisions of the Qualified Retirement Plan were administered without regard to the Limits; and         

(b)  
  equals the retirement benefit or survivor benefit payable to such Participant (or on his or her behalf to his or her Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary) under the Qualified
Retirement Plan.           
   Page 23   

5.  FORM OF PRESERVATION PLAN BENEFIT        

(a)  
  The Plan Administrator shall determine, as of the earlier of the Participant s Retirement Date or the Participant s date of death, that portion of the Participant s
total retirement benefit or survivor benefit that is to be paid under the Preservation Plan. The Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be paid to the Participant, or on his or her behalf to any Contingent Annuitant or
Beneficiary (as designated under the Qualified Retirement Plan), in the form of distribution that applies to the benefit payments made to, or on behalf of, the Participant under the Qualified Retirement Plan unless the Participant has made a timely
election to receive his or her Preservation Plan retirement benefit in a single lump-sum payment or in a series of 2 to 10 annual installment payments in accordance with this Section 5.         

(b)  
  If          

(i)  
  the Participant qualifies for an Early Retirement Annuity or a Normal Retirement Annuity or satisfies the Rule of 65 under Section 5.4 of the United Technologies Corporation
Employee Retirement Plan (or dies after qualifying for an Early Retirement Annuity or a Normal Retirement Annuity or satisfying such Rule of 65, but before the date as of which retirement benefits under the Qualified Retirement Plan are scheduled to
begin), and         

(ii)  
  terminates, or retires from, employment with the Corporation and its affiliates after December 31, 1995,        the Participant may elect, in accordance with Section 5(c) hereof, to have his or her Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit paid
in a lump-sum or in annual installments, payable (or commencing) as of the Participant s Retirement Date. Subject to the provisions of Section 5(c) hereof, a Participant may revoke any such election at any time. A Participant shall have no
right under the Preservation Plan to have his or her Qualified Retirement Plan benefit paid in a lump sum or in annual installments. Distributions from the Qualified Retirement Plan shall be governed solely by the terms of the Qualified Retirement
Plan.         
   Page 24   

(c)  
  An election to have a lump-sum or installment distribution paid pursuant to Section 5(b) hereof (or a revocation of any such election) shall be disregarded unless it is filed
at least one year before the Participant s Retirement Date (or, if earlier, the first day of the month next following the Participant s date of death), except that         

(i)  
  If such an election or revocation is filed on or before October 30, 1996, the election or revocation shall be given effect only if the Participant consents to a distribution
(or the commencement of distributions) under the Preservation Plan as of a date occurring on or after January 1, 1997; and         

(ii)  
  If such an election or revocation is filed on or after November 1, 1996, and on or before December 31, 1996, the election or revocation shall be given effect only if the
Participant consents to a distribution (or the commencement of distributions) under the Preservation Plan as of a date occurring on or after April 1, 1997.         

(d)  
  If a Participant elects to have his or her Preservation Plan benefit paid in the form of a single lump-sum or annual installment distribution, the Actuarially Equivalent present
value of the Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be determined using the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table and an interest assumption equal to the average yield for tax-free municipal bonds of 10-year maturities, averaged
over the prior 5 calendar years. For purposes of computing this interest assumption, the Actuary shall utilize the Lehman Bros. Municipal Bond Index, averaging the published yield for 10-year maturities (credit quality AA or above) on the last
business day of the year over the most recent 5 consecutive full calendar year period. This rate shall be adjusted annually at the beginning of each calendar year.         

(e)  
  The payment of a lump-sum or annual installment distribution in accordance with this Section 5 shall be in full satisfaction of all of the Corporation s obligations with
respect to the Participant under the Preservation Plan.           
   Page 25   

6.  DEATH BENEFITS       A
Participant who has made an election to receive Pension Preservation Plan benefits in a lump sum or annual installments in accordance with Section 5 herein shall have survivor benefits paid to his or her Pension Preservation Plan beneficiary as
follows. If death occurs prior to age 55, the Pension Preservation Plan accrued benefit shall be paid in a lump sum payment as of the date the Participant would have attained his or her 55th birthday. If death occurs after retirement but before all
annual installments have been paid, the remaining installments will be paid to his or her Beneficiary as scheduled unless the estate of the Participant is the Beneficiary in which case the commuted value of the remaining payments will be paid in a
lump sum.      If no election to receive Pension Preservation Plan benefits in a lump sum or installments is in effect as of the date of death, any survivor
benefits will be paid in accordance with the distribution option in effect and to the Beneficiary or Contingent Annuitant designated under the Qualified Retirement Plan.      7.  FUNDING       The Preservation Plan shall be maintained as an unfunded Plan that is not intended to meet the
qualification requirements of Section 401 of the Code. Except in the event of a Change in Control of the Corporation (as described in Section 7 hereof), all benefits under the Preservation Plan shall be payable solely from the general
assets of the Corporation. In this regard, the rights of each Participant, Contingent Annuitant and Beneficiary under the Preservation Plan with respect to his or her Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be those of a
general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No Participant, Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary hereunder shall be entitled to receive any benefits payable under the Preservation Plan from the assets of the Qualified Retirement Plan, nor shall
the Corporation undertake to set aside assets in trust or otherwise segregate assets to fund its obligations under the Preservation Plan except as provided in Section 7 hereof.         
   Page 26   

8.  CHANGE OF CONTROL       In the event of a Change of Control of the Corporation, the Corporation shall immediately fully fund the value of all Accrued Benefits under the Preservation Plan, determined by the Actuary as of the date of the Change of Control. The
required proceeds will be contributed to the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan Retirement Security Trust. In addition, if the United Technologies Corporation Board of Directors Committee on Compensation and Executive
Development takes any action under the United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan (the  LTIP ), including, without limitation, the accelerated vesting or other adjustment to outstanding LTIP awards in anticipation of
(i) a Change of Control (ii) an event, which if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control or (iii) any other significant change pertaining to the ownership of the Corporation, the Corporation shall then also immediately fund
the United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan Retirement Security Trust. For purposes of this Section 7,  Change of Control  shall have the meaning given to that term under the LTIP.      9.  NONASSIGNABILITY       No Participant, Contingent Annuitant or
Beneficiary or any other person shall have the right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Preservation Plan. All Preservation Plan benefits are unassignable and non-transferable and shall not be subject to
attachment or seizure for the payment of any debts, judgments or other obligations. No Preservation Plan interest shall be transferred by operation of law in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of a Participant, Contingent Annuitant, or
Beneficiary.      10.  NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT       Participation in the Preservation Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between the Corporation and the Participant. Nothing in the Preservation Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the
right to be retained in the service of the Corporation for any length of time. Participants, Contingent Annuitants and Beneficiaries shall have no rights against the Corporation resulting from participation in the Preservation Plan other than as
specifically provided herein.         
   Page 27   

11.  OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION       The Preservation Plan shall be administered by the Pension Administration and Investment Committee of United Technologies Corporation (the  Committee ). The Committee shall have the right to delegate its
responsibilities hereunder to sub-committees and individuals. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under the Preservation Plan shall be determined by the Committee (or its delegate) in its full discretion, and its decision shall
be final and binding upon all parties.      12.  TAXES/WITHHOLDING       The Corporation shall have the right to withhold taxes from Preservation Plan benefit payments to the extent it reasonably determines such withholding to be required by law.      13.  GOVERNING LAW       The Preservation Plan shall be construed, administered and enforced in accordance with the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), and to the extent not preempted thereby, the laws of the State of Connecticut (disregarding its choice-of-law rules).      14.  AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE       The Corporation expects to continue
the Preservation Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right, by action of the Committee, to amend or discontinue the Preservation Plan at any time, provided, however, that no such action shall decrease any benefits accrued under the Preservation Plan
as of the date of such action. Although the benefits accrued under the Preservation Plan are not subject to the restrictions imposed by Section 204(g) of ERISA, the proviso in the preceding  
       
   Page 28   

sentence shall be construed in a manner consistent with Section 204(g) of ERISA. As a result, the proviso referred to in the preceding sentence imposes
restrictions identical with the restrictions that would be imposed on the Preservation Plan if the Preservation Plan were subject to Section 204(g) of ERISA.      15.  SUCCESSORS       The provisions of the Preservation Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, and its successors and
assigns. The term successors shall include any corporate or other business entity that by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation and successors of any such
Corporation or other entity.      16.  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURE        

(a)  
  The Plan Administrator shall establish and communicate procedures for Participants to obtain forms required to effect elections and designations under the Plan. The Plan
Administrator may establish a telephonic communication system to facilitate the administration of the Plan and to provide information to Participants, provided that any estimate of a Participant s current or projected accrued benefit shall in
no event be binding on the Plan Administrator in the event of any discrepancy between such estimate and a Participant s actual Accrued Benefit, which, in all cases, shall control. Upon notification of the death of any Participant while in the
employment of the Employer, the Plan Administrator may initiate any claim on behalf of the Spouse, Contingent Annuitant, or Beneficiary.         

(b)  
  If a claim is denied, the Plan Administrator or its designated agent shall give the claimant notice in writing of such denial, which notice shall set forth (i) the specific
reason(s) for the denial; (ii) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation
of why such materials or information are necessary; and (iv) an explanation of the Plan s claim review procedure.           
   Page 29   

(c)  
  Within 60 days after receipt of the notice of denial described above, the claimant may request a review of such denial by filing a notice of appeal in writing with the Benefit
Claims Appeal Committee (the  Benefits Appeal Committee ). Such notice must set forth all relevant factors upon which the appeal is based. The Benefits Appeal Committee shall decide the issues raised by the appeal, either with or without
holding a hearing, and shall issue to the claimant a written notice setting forth its decision and the reasons for the decision. The Benefits Appeal Committee s decision shall be made not more than 60 days after it has received the
claimant s request for review, unless the Benefits Appeal Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time and so notifies the claimant, in which case a decision shall be made not more than 120 days after it has
received the request for review. The Benefits Appeal Committee shall have the greatest discretion permitted by law in making decisions pursuant to this Section 16. All interpretations, determinations, and decisions of the Benefits Appeal
Committee in respect of any claim shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons having or claiming to have any interest or right under the Plan.           
   Page 30   

Appendix B       This Appendix B sets forth the United Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan, as in effect on December 31, 2004 ( Prior Replacement Plan ), and as modified thereafter from time to time in a
manner that does not constitute a  material modification  for purposes of Section 409A. Amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A) prior to January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these
amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, are generally subject to and shall continue to be governed by the terms of this Prior Replacement Plan.         
   Page 31   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION      PENSION REPLACEMENT PLAN       AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 1996  
     1.  INTRODUCTION   PURPOSE       The United
Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan (the  Replacement Plan ) is maintained as an unfunded plan solely for the purpose of providing retirement benefits in excess of the retirement and survivor benefits that may be paid from
the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan (or any other tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plan sponsored by the Corporation) (the  Qualified Retirement Plan ) and the United Technologies Corporation Pension
Preservation Plan as a result of any reduction in a Participant s compensation that would otherwise be utilized in computing accrued benefits under such Plans where the reduction results from participation in the Corporation s Deferred
Compensation Plan.      The capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings given to them by the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.      2.  EFFECTIVE DATE       The Replacement Plan became effective on April 1, 1985 as the United Technologies Corporation Supplemental Plan, which was subsequently renamed the United Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan. This
amendment and restatement of the Replacement Plan shall be effective January 1, 1996 ,  except to the extent otherwise specifically provided herein.         
   Page 32   

3.  ELIGIBILITY       An
employee of United Technologies Corporation (the  Corporation ) or an affiliate thereof who is a Participant in the Qualified Retirement Plan and the Pension Preservation Plan (if applicable) shall be eligible to participate in the
Replacement Plan if and to the extent the Participant s Accrued Benefit under the Qualified Retirement Plan or the Pension Preservation Plan is reduced as a result of participation in the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation
Plan or other similar deferred compensation arrangement if the Corporation authorizes the replacement of pension benefits in such arrangement (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ). In no event shall any person who is not entitled to benefits
under the Qualified Retirement Plan be eligible for retirement benefits or survivor benefits under the Replacement Plan. An employee of the Corporation or an affiliate thereof who is eligible for retirement benefits under the Replacement Plan shall
be referred to herein as a  Participant.       4.  DETERMINATION OF REPLACEMENT PLAN BENEFIT       The amount of the retirement benefit or survivor benefit payable from the Replacement Plan to or in respect of a Participant shall equal the excess, if any, of
(a) over (b), where      (a) equals the retirement benefit or survivor benefit that would be paid to such Participant (or on his or her
behalf to his Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary) under the Qualified Retirement Plan and the Pension Preservation Plan if the provisions of such Plans were administered by taking into account any compensation that was deferred under the Deferred
Compensation Plan; and      (b) equals the retirement benefit or survivor benefit payable to such Participant (or on his or her behalf to his or
her Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary) under the Qualified Retirement Plan and the Pension Preservation Plan.         
   Page 33   

5.  FORM OF PRESERVATION PLAN BENEFIT       (a) The Plan Administrator shall determine, as of the earlier of the Participant s Retirement Date or the Participant s date of death, that portion of the Participant s total retirement benefit or
survivor benefit that is to be paid under the Replacement Plan. The Replacement Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be paid to the Participant, or on his or her behalf to any Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary (as designated under the
Qualified Retirement Plan), in the form of distribution that applies to the benefit payments made to, or on behalf of, the Participant under the Qualified Retirement Plan unless the Participant has made a timely election to receive his or her
Replacement Plan retirement benefit in a single lump-sum payment or in a series of 2 to 10 annual installment payments in accordance with this Section 5.      (b) If       (i) the Participant qualifies for an Early Retirement Annuity or a Normal Retirement Annuity
or satisfies the Rule of 65 under Section 5.4 of the United Technologies Corporation Employee Retirement Plan (or dies after qualifying for an Early Retirement Annuity or a Normal Retirement Annuity or satisfying such Rule of 65, but before the
date as of which retirement benefits under the Qualified Retirement Plan are scheduled to begin), and      (ii) terminates, or retires from,
employment with the Corporation and its affiliates after December 31, 1995,      the Participant may elect, in accordance with
Section 5(c) hereof, to have his or her Replacement Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit paid in a lump sum or in annual installments, payable (or commencing) as of the Participant s Retirement Date. Subject to the provisions of
Section 5(c) hereof, a Participant may revoke any such election at any time. A Participant shall have no right under the Replacement Plan to have his or her Qualified Retirement Plan benefit paid in a lump sum or in annual installments.
Distributions from the Qualified Retirement Plan shall be governed solely by the terms of the Qualified Retirement Plan.         
   Page 34   

(c) An election to have a lump-sum or installment distribution paid pursuant to Section 5(b) hereof
(or a revocation of any such election) shall be disregarded unless it is filed at least one year before the Participant s Retirement Date (or, if earlier, the first day of the month next following the Participant s date of death), except
that      (i) If such an election or revocation is filed on or before October 30, 1996, the election or revocation shall be given effect
only if the Participant consents to a distribution (or the commencement of distributions) under the Replacement Plan as of a date occurring on or after January 1,1997; and      (ii) If such an election or revocation is filed on or after November 1, 1996, and on or before December 31, 1996, the election or revocation
shall be given effect only if the Participant consents to a distribution (or the commencement of distributions) under the Replacement Plan as of a date occurring on or after April 1, 1997.      (d) If a Participant elects to have his or her Replacement Plan benefit paid in the form of a single lump-sum or annual installment distribution, the
Actuarially Equivalent present value of the Replacement Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be determined using the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table and an interest assumption equal to the average yield for tax-free municipal bonds
of 10-year maturities, averaged over the prior 5 calendar years. For purposes of computing this interest assumption, the Actuary shall utilize the Lehman Bros. Municipal Bond Index, averaging the published yield for 10-year maturities (credit
quality AA or above) on the last business day of the year over the most recent 5 consecutive full calendar year period. This rate shall be adjusted annually at the beginning of each calendar year.      (e) The payment of a lump sum or annual installment distribution in accordance with this Section 5 shall be in full satisfaction of all of the
Corporation s obligations with respect to the Participant under the Replacement Plan.         
   Page 35   

6.  DEATH BENEFITS       A Participant who has made an election to receive Replacement Plan benefits in a lump sum or annual installments in accordance with Section 5 herein and such election is effective as of the date of the
Participant s death shall have survivor benefits paid to his or her Replacement Plan Beneficiary as follows. If death occurs prior to age 55, the Replacement Plan benefits shall be paid in a lump sum payment as of the date the Participant would
have attained his or her 55th birthday. If death occurs after retirement but before all annual installments have been paid, the remaining installments will be paid to his or her Beneficiary as scheduled unless the estate of the Participant is the
Beneficiary in which case the commuted value of the remaining payments will be paid in a lump sum.      If no election to receive Replacement
Plan benefits in a lump sum or installments is in effect as of the date of death, any survivor benefits will be paid in accordance with the distribution option in effect and to the Beneficiary or Contingent Annuitant designated under the Qualified
Retirement Plan.      7.  FUNDING       The
Replacement Plan shall be maintained as an unfunded Plan that is not intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section 401 of the Code. Except in the event of a Change in Control of the Corporation (as described in Section 7
hereof), all benefits under the Replacement Plan shall be payable solely from the general assets of the Corporation. In this regard, the rights of each Participant, Contingent Annuitant and Beneficiary under the Replacement Plan with respect to his
or her Preservation Plan retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No Participant, Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary hereunder shall be entitled to receive any benefits payable under
the Replacement Plan from the assets of the Qualified Retirement Plan, nor shall the Corporation undertake to set aside assets in trust or otherwise segregate assets to fund its obligations under the Replacement Plan except as provided in
Section 7 hereof.         
   Page 36   

8.  CHANGE OF CONTROL       In the event of a Change of Control of the Corporation, the Corporation shall immediately fully fund the value of all Accrued Benefits under the Replacement Plan, determined by the Actuary as of the date of the Change
of Control. The required proceeds will be contributed to the United Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan Retirement Security Trust. In addition, if the United Technologies Corporation Board of Directors Committee on Compensation and
Executive Development takes any action under the United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan (the  LTIP  )  including, without limitation, the accelerated vesting or other adjustment to outstanding LTIP awards in
anticipation of (i) a Change of Control (ii) an event, which if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control or (iii) any other significant change pertaining to the ownership of the Corporation, the Corporation shall then also
immediately fund the United Technologies Corporation Pension Replacement Plan Retirement Security Trust. For purposes of this Section 7,  Change of Control  shall have the meaning given to that term under the LTIP.      9.  NONASSIGNABILITY       No Participant, Contingent
Annuitant or Beneficiary or any other person shall have the right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Replacement Plan. All Replacement Plan benefits are unassignable and non-transferable and shall not be
subject to attachment or seizure for the payment of any debts, judgments or other obligations. No Replacement Plan interest shall be transferred by operation of law in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of a Participant, Contingent Annuitant,
or Beneficiary.         
   Page 37   

10.  NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT       Participation in the Replacement Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between the Corporation and the Participant. Nothing in the Replacement Plan shall be deemed to
give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Corporation for any length of time. Participants, Contingent Annuitants and Beneficiaries shall have no rights against the Corporation resulting from participation in the Replacement
Plan other than as specifically provided herein.      11 .   OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION       The Replacement Plan shall be administered by the Pension Administration and Investment Committee of United Technologies Corporation (the
 Committee ). The Committee shall have the right to delegate its responsibilities hereunder to sub-committees and individuals. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under the Replacement Plan shall be determined by the
Committee (or its delegate) in its full discretion, and its decision shall be final and binding upon all parties.      12.  TAXES/WITHHOLDING    
  The Corporation shall have the right to withhold taxes from Replacement Plan benefit payments to the extent it reasonably determines such withholding
to be required by law.      13.  GOVERNING LAW       The Replacement Plan shall be construed, administered and enforced in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), and to the extent not preempted thereby, the laws of the State of
Connecticut (disregarding its choice-of-law rules).         
   Page 38   

14.  AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE       The Corporation expects to continue the Replacement Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right, by action of the Committee, to amend or discontinue the Replacement Plan at any time, provided, however, that no such
action shall decrease any benefits accrued under the Replacement Plan as of the date of such action. Although the benefits accrued under the Replacement Plan are not subject to the restrictions imposed by Section 204(g) of ERISA, the proviso in
the preceding sentence shall be construed in a manner consistent with Section 204(g) of ERISA. As a result, the proviso referred to in the preceding sentence imposes restrictions identical with the restrictions that would be imposed on the
Replacement Plan if the Replacement Plan were subject to Section 204(g) of ERISA.      15.  SUCCESSORS       The provisions of the Replacement Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, and its successors and assigns. The term successors shall
include any corporate or other business entity that by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation, and successors of any such Corporation or other entity.   
  16.  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURE       (a) The Plan
Administrator shall establish and communicate procedures for Participants to obtain forms required to effect elections and designations under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may establish a telephonic communication system to facilitate the
administration of the Plan and to provide information to Participants, provided that any estimate of a Participant s current or projected accrued benefit shall in no event be binding on the Plan Administrator in the event of any discrepancy
between such estimate and a Participant s actual Accrued Benefit, which, in all cases, shall control. Upon notification of the death of any Participant while in the employment of the Employer, the Plan Administrator may initiate any claim on
behalf of the Spouse, Contingent Annuitant, or Beneficiary.      (b) If a claim is denied, the Plan Administrator or its designated agent shall
give the claimant notice in writing of such denial, which notice shall set forth (i) the specific reason(s) for  
       
   Page 39   

the denial; (ii) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based; (iii) a description of any additional material or
information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such materials or information are necessary; and (iv) an explanation of the Plan s claim review procedure.      (c) Within 60 days after receipt of the notice of denial described above, the claimant may request a review of such denial by filing a notice of appeal
in writing with the Benefit Claims Appeal Committee (the  Benefits Appeal Committee ). Such notice must set forth all relevant factors upon which the appeal is based. The Benefits Appeal Committee shall decide the issues raised by the
appeal, either with or without holding a hearing, and shall issue to the claimant a written notice setting forth its decision and the reasons for the decision. The Benefits Appeal Committee s decision shall be made not more than 60 days after
it has received the claimant s request for review, unless the Benefits Appeal Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time and so notifies the claimant, in which case a decision shall be made not more than 120
days after it has received the request for review. The Benefits Appeal Committee shall have the greatest discretion permitted by law in making decisions pursuant to this Section 16. All interpretations, determinations, and decisions of the
Benefits Appeal Committee in respect of any claim shall be conclusive and binding upon all persons having or claiming to have any interest or right under the Plan.         
   Page 40   

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.5>
 4
 dex105.htm
 UTC DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

UTC Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.5        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        (As amended and restated effective January 1, 2005)         ARTICLE I PREAMBLE        United Technologies Corporation established the United Technologies Deferred Compensation
Plan effective April 1, 1985. Pursuant to such Plan, certain eligible executives of the Corporation, its Subsidiaries and Affiliates deferred all or a portion of their compensation earned with respect to 1985 and 1986. No compensation earned
after 1986 was deferred under the Plan until the Plan was amended and restated effective December 15, 1993 to offer eligible executives the opportunity to defer all or a portion of Compensation earned or otherwise payable in 1994 and subsequent
years. The Plan has been amended from time to time since 1993.      The Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, to
reflect the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan, as amended and restated, applies to deferrals that were earned or vested after December 31, 2004. Amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of
Section 409A) before January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, are subject to and shall continue to be governed by the terms of the
Prior Plan as set forth in Appendix A.      From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated in good faith
compliance with Section 409A in accordance with guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service.         
   Page 1   

ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS         Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated on an electronic or written form by the Participant to receive the value of his or her Plan Account in the event of the Participant s death. If
the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or the Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant, the value of the Participant s Plan Account will be paid to the estate of the Participant.       Benefit Reduction Contribution  means a contribution by the Corporation to the Participant s Plan Account to recognize the reduction in the
value of employer matching or other contributions under any of the Corporation s savings or other tax qualified defined contribution retirement plans as a result of the reduction of such Participant s Compensation pursuant to this Plan.
      Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto. Reference to any section of
the Internal Revenue Code shall include any final regulations or other published guidance interpreting that section.       Committee
 means the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, which is responsible for the administration of the Plan. The Corporation s Pension Administration Committee shall appoint the Committee s members.   
   Compensation  means base salary and Incentive Compensation Payments otherwise payable to a Participant by a UTC Company and considered to be
wages for purposes of federal income tax withholding, but before any deferral of Compensation pursuant to the Plan. Compensation does not include foreign service premiums and allowances, compensation realized from Long Term Incentive Plan awards or
other types of awards.         
   Page 2   

Corporation  means United Technologies Corporation.       Credited Interest Account  means the Investment Fund that is valued in the manner set forth in Section 5.2.       Deferral Period  means the period prior to the receipt of Compensation deferred hereunder.        Disability   means permanent and total disability as determined under the Corporation s long-term disability plan applicable to the
Participant, or if there is no such plan applicable to the Participant,  Disability  means a determination of total disability by the Social Security Administration; provided that, in either case, the Participant s condition also
qualifies as a  disability  for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code.       Election Form  means the enrollment
form provided by the Committee to Participants electronically or in paper form for the purpose of deferring Compensation under the Plan. Each Participant s Election Form must specify: the amount to be deferred from base salary and/or from any
Incentive Compensation Payment with respect to the following calendar year; the respective amounts to be allocated to the Participant s Retirement Account and/or Special Purpose Account or Accounts; the percentage allocation among the
Investment Funds with respect to each such Account; and if not previously elected for an Account, the method of distribution of each such Account; and the Deferral Period for each Special Purpose Account. There will be a separate Election Form for
each calendar year.       Incentive Compensation Payment  means amounts awarded to a Participant pursuant to the Corporation s Annual
Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.         
   Page 3   

Investment Fund  means the Credited Interest Account, the S P 500 Account, the UTC Stock Unit
Account or such other investment option as may be established by the Committee from time to time. The value of Participants  Accounts shall be adjusted to replicate the performance of the applicable Investment Funds. Amounts allocated to any
Investment Fund do not result in any investment in actual assets corresponding to the Investment Fund.       Participant  means an
executive of a UTC Company who is paid from a US payroll, files a U.S. income tax return, and who elects to defer Compensation under the Plan.       Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective September 1, 2002, and as amended from time to time thereafter.       Plan Account  means the aggregate value of all Special Purpose Accounts and the Retirement Account, but excluding accounts under the Prior Plan.
Accounts under the Prior Plan will be valued and administered separately in accordance with the terms and procedures in effect under the Prior Plan.       Prior Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as in effect on October 3, 2004, as set forth in Appendix A. All amounts earned and vested under the Prior Plan, and any
subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan and shall not be affected by this amendment and
restatement.       Retirement Account  means a Plan Account maintained on behalf of the Participant that is targeted for distribution
following the Participant s Retirement.         
   Page 4   

Retirement  means Separation from Service on or after age 50 and attainment of age 65; Separation
from Service on or after age 50 and attainment of at least age 55 and a minimum of 10 or more years of  continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008); or a Rule of 65 termination.
      Retirement Date  means the date of a Participant s Retirement.        Rule of 65  Termination  means Separation from Service on or after age 50 and before age 55, with a combination of age and years of
 continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008) equal to at least 65.       Separation from Service  means a Participant s termination of employment with all UTC Companies, other than by reason of death, or Disability that qualifies as a  separation from service  for purposes of
Section 409A of the Code. A Separation from Service will be deemed to occur where the Participant and the UTC Company that employs the Participant reasonably anticipate that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether
as an employee or as an independent contractor) for UTC Companies will be permanently reduced to a level that is less than thirty-seven and a half percent (37.5%) of the average level of bona fide services the Participant performed during the
immediately preceding 36 months (or the entire period the Participant has provided services if the Participant has been providing services to the UTC Companies for less than 36 months). A Participant shall not be considered to have had a Separation
from Service as a result of a transfer from one UTC Company to another UTC Company.       S P 500 Account  means an Investment Fund
that is valued in the manner set forth in Section 5.4.         
   Page 5   

Special Purpose Account  means a Plan Account maintained on behalf of the Participant with a
targeted distribution date in the calendar year specified by the Participant. The minimum Deferral Period is five (5) calendar years following the end of the calendar year in which the Account is established; and the first payment from an
Account must commence no later than in the calendar year in which the Participant attains age 72.       Specified Employee  means each of the 50 highest-paid executives of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, effective annually as of March 31   st   , based on annual salary and incentive compensation paid in the prior year. The term includes both U.S. and non-U.S. employees.         UTC Common Stock  means the common stock of United Technologies Corporation.       UTC Company  means United Technologies Corporation or any entity controlled by or under common control with United Technologies Corporation within
the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (but substituting  at least 20 percent  for  at least 80 percent  as the control threshold used in applying Sections 414(b) and (c)).       UTC Stock Unit Account  means the Investment Fund that is valued in the manner set forth in Section 5.3.        ARTICLE III ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION         Section 3.1 Eligibility       Each employee of a UTC Company who is classified as an eligible Participant as of
December 31 of the current year will be eligible to elect to defer Compensation under the Plan in respect of the immediately following calendar year in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the rules and  
       
   Page 6   

procedures established by the Committee. Newly hired executives (or employees promoted to executive level) are eligible to elect to defer base salary during
the current calendar year if they make an election within 30 calendar days from their hire date or promotion date.       Section 3.2 Participation       Each eligible Participant may elect to participate in the Plan with respect to any
calendar year for which the Committee offers the opportunity to defer Compensation by timely filing with the Committee an Election Form, properly completed in accordance with Section 4.1. Participation in the Plan is entirely voluntary.
       ARTICLE IV PARTICIPANT ELECTIONS AND DESIGNATIONS         Section 4.1 Election       An eligible Participant may,, on or before the election deadline
established by the Committee, make an electronic or written election on the Election Form provided by the Committee to defer Compensation for the immediately following calendar year.       Section 4.2 Election Amount       An eligible Participant must designate in the Election Form the dollar amount of base salary that will be deferred during such calendar year, and/or the percentage or dollar amount of any Incentive Compensation Payment otherwise payable
with respect to services performed during such calendar year that will be deferred under the Plan. The minimum dollar amount that a Participant may defer under the Plan for any calendar year is $5,000. The maximum amount that a Participant may defer
under the Plan for any calendar year is 70% of base salary and/or 100% of any Incentive Compensation Payment.         
   Page 7   

Section 4.3 Election Date       For an election to defer base salary, an electronic or written Election Form must be completed and submitted to the Committee no later than the
December 31 immediately preceding the calendar year to which the election applies, or such earlier date as the Committee may specify. A deferral election shall be effective only if the individual making the election is still an eligible
Participant at the election deadline. Except as provided below in Section 4.8 (Change in Election), the choices reflected on the Participant s Election Form shall be irrevocable on the election deadline. If an eligible executive fails to
submit a properly completed Election Form by the election deadline, the executive will be ineligible to defer base salary under the Plan for the immediately following calendar year.      For an election to defer any Incentive Compensation Payment with respect to services to be performed in the current calendar year and otherwise payable
in the immediately following calendar year, an electronic or written Election Form must be completed and submitted to the Committee no later than the June 30 of the current calendar year, or such earlier date as the Committee may specify. A
deferral election shall be effective only if the individual making the election is still an eligible Participant as of the election deadline. Except as provided below in Section 4.8 (Change in Election), the choices reflected on the
Participant s Election Form shall be irrevocable on the election deadline. If an eligible executive fails to submit a properly completed Election Form by the election deadline, the executive will be ineligible to defer Incentive Compensation
under the Plan with respect to services to be performed in the current calendar year.         
   Page 8   

Section 4.4 Deferral Period       Each Participant shall specify in the Election Form, in whole percentages, how the amounts to be deferred in the immediately following calendar year are
to be allocated among the Participant s Retirement Account and any Special Purpose Accounts established for the Participant. To the extent that the Participant fails to make an effective allocation among the available accounts, the deferral
shall be allocated entirely to the Participant s Retirement Account. A Participant may elect to defer into a Special Purpose Account that has not previously been established, with a Deferral Period ending on a Specific Deferral Date that is at
least five (5) calendar years following the end of the calendar year in which the Account is established (but not later than the Participant s 72nd birthday). If the Participant s 72nd birthday falls prior to the completion of this
five (5) year period, the Participant must defer into the Retirement Account only.       Section 4.5 Distribution Election
      At the time the Participant first elects to defer an amount to the Participant s Retirement Account or to a Special Purpose
Account, the Participant must further make an election to have the Participant s Retirement or Special Purpose Account distributed in a lump sum or in two to fifteen annual installments. The Participant may elect a different form of
distribution for the Retirement Account and for each Special Purpose Account. If no distribution election is made with respect to a Participant s Retirement Account or Special Purpose Account, the Account will be distributed in a lump sum.
        
   Page 9   

Section 4.6 Investment Fund Allocations       When completing the Election Form, the Participant must allocate the amounts to be deferred, in whole percentages, among the available Investment Funds.
To the extent that the Participant fails to make an effective allocation among the available Investment Funds, the deferral shall be allocated entirely to the Credited Interest Account.      Participants may reallocate their existing Plan Accounts among the available Investment Funds as permitted by the Committee, generally once per year.
Such reallocations shall be in whole percentages and, unless otherwise specified by the Committee, shall be effective the first business day of the calendar year following the date of the reallocation election.       Section 4.7 Change in Election       A Participant who has made an election to defer Compensation under the Plan may make a one time irrevocable election to extend the Deferral Period for a Retirement Account and/or any Special Purpose Account. A Participant may also make a
one time irrevocable election to change the form of distribution for the Retirement and/or any Special Purpose Account. A Participant may change his or her election, as provided in this Section 4.8, for some accounts and not for others;
provided that the Participant may change his or her election only once for the Retirement Account and only once for each Special Purpose Account. With respect to each Special Purpose Account, the extended Deferral Period shall end not less than five
(5) years following the date on which distribution would otherwise have occurred. With respect to the Retirement Account, the extended Deferral Period is five years form the date on which the Retirement Account would otherwise have commenced
payment.         
   Page 10   

A deferral extension election and/or change to the form of distribution must meet all of the following
requirements:      (a) The new election must be made at least twelve months prior to the date on which payments will commence under the current
election (and the new election shall be ineffective if the payment commencement date under the current election occurs within twelve months after the date of the new election);      (b) The new election will not take effect until at least twelve months after the date when the new election is submitted in a manner acceptable to the
Committee;      (c) The new payment commencement date must be five years later than the date on which payments would commence under the current
election; and      (d) In no case may a Participant extend the Deferral Period for a Special Purpose Account beyond the Participant s 72nd
birthday. If the Participant s 72nd birthday falls less than five (5) years after the date on which payments would commence under the current election, the Participant is not eligible to extend his or her Deferral Period or to change the
form of distribution for the Special Purpose Account.       Section 4.8 Designation of Beneficiary       Each Participant shall designate a Beneficiary for his or her Plan Account on an electronic or written form provided by the Committee. A Participant may
change such designation on an electronic or written form acceptable to the Committee and received by the Committee at any time before the Participant s death. In the event that no Beneficiary designation is filed with the Committee, or if the

Page 11   

Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant, all amounts deferred hereunder will be paid to the estate of the Participant.
If a Participant designates the Participant s spouse as the Participant s Beneficiary, that designation shall not be revoked or otherwise altered or affected by any: (a) change in the marital status of the Participant;
(b) agreement between the Participant and such spouse; or (c) judicial decree (such as a divorce decree) affecting any rights that the Participant and such spouse might have as a result of their marriage, separation, or divorce; it being
the intent of the Plan that any change in the designation of a Beneficiary hereunder may be made by the Participant only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4.8. In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions
shall be made in accordance with Section 6.5.        ARTICLE V PLAN ACCOUNTS          Section 5.1 Accounts       Deferred amounts that were earned and vested before January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these amounts that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A of the Code, shall be maintained in
separate accounts and shall remain subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan. The Prior Plan accounts are not intended to be subject to Section 409A of the Code. No amendment to Appendix A that would constitute a  material
modification  for purposes of Section 409A shall be effective unless the amending instrument states that it is intended to materially modify Appendix A and to cause the Prior Plan to become subject to Section 409A. Although the Prior
Plan accounts are not intended to be subject to Section 409A, neither the UTC Companies nor any director, officer, or other representative of a UTC Company shall be liable for any adverse tax consequence suffered by a Participant or Beneficiary
if a Prior Plan account becomes subject to Section 409A.         
   Page 12   

Deferred amounts that were earned or vested after December 31, 2004, will be allocated to a
Retirement Account and/or one or more Special Purpose Accounts as elected by the Participant. The Committee will establish the maximum number of Special Purpose Accounts.      Participants  Plan Accounts shall be allocated or reallocated among Investment Funds in accordance with each Participant s instructions in the manner set forth in Section 4.6.       Section 5.2 Valuation of Credited Interest Account       Deferred amounts allocated to the Credited Interest Account will be credited daily with a rate of interest equal to the average interest rate on 10-Year Treasury Bonds as of the last business day of each month from
January through October in the calendar year prior to the calendar year in which the interest is credited, plus 1%.       Section 5.3 Valuation of UTC Stock Unit Account       Deferred Compensation allocated to the UTC Stock Unit Account
will be converted to Stock Units, including fractional Stock Units. A UTC Stock Unit is equal to the closing price of one share of UTC Common Stock as reported on the composite tape of the New York Stock Exchange. The number of Stock Units will be
calculated by dividing the amount of Compensation deferred by the closing price of UTC Common Stock on the date when the deferred amount is credited to the Participant s UTC Stock Unit Account. UTC Stock Units held in the UTC Stock Unit Account
on a dividend payment date will be credited with dividend equivalent payments equal to the Corporation s declared dividend on UTC Common Stock (if any). Such dividend equivalent payments will be converted to additional UTC Stock Units and
fractional units using the closing price of UTC Common Stock as of the date such dividends are credited to the Participant s UTC Stock Unit Account.         
   Page 13   

Section 5.4 Valuation of S P 500 Account       Deferred amounts allocated to the S P 500 Account will be converted to S P Account units based on the closing share price of the Vanguard 500
Index Fund as of date the deferred amount is credited to the Participant s S P 500 Account. The value of the S P 500 Account units will fluctuate on each business day based on the performance of the Vanguard 500 Index Fund.   
   Section 5.5 Allocation to Accounts       During the year of deferral, deferred amounts will be allocated to the Participant s Plan Account and Investment Funds as of the date the deferred amounts would otherwise have been paid to the Participant.
      Section 5.6 Crediting of Benefit Reduction Contribution       At the end of each calendar year, the Committee will determine if any Benefit Reduction has been incurred with respect to any of the Corporation s
savings plans or other tax qualified defined contribution retirement plans, and will credit the amount of such Benefit Reduction to the affected Participant s Plan Account as of the last business day of the calendar year. Any such amounts will
be allocated on a pro-rata basis to the Participant s Retirement Account and Special Purpose Accounts and Investment Funds in accordance with the Participant s deferral elections on file for that calendar year.       Section 5.7 Reports to Participants       The Committee will provide or make available detailed information to Participants regarding the value of Plan Accounts, distribution elections, Beneficiary designations, Investment Fund allocations and credited values for Retirement and
Special Purpose Accounts, not less than once per year. Such information may be provided via electronic media as determined by the Committee.         
   Page 14   

ARTICLE VI DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS         Section 6.1 Timing of Plan Distributions       Except as provided in Section 4.8 (concerning the five-year delay following a Change in Election), Section 6.3 (concerning Separation from Service before Attaining Age Fifty), and Section 6.4
(concerning distributions to Specified Employees), the value of a Participant s Retirement Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) to the Participant in April of the calendar year following the Retirement Date. The value of a
Participant s Special Purpose Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) to the Participant in April of the year specified in the Participant s initial election or in any change in election under Section 4.8. This means,
for example, that if a deferral election specifies a Deferral Period until 2015, distribution will occur in April of 2015.       Section 6.2 Method of Distribution       Except as provided in Section 6.3 (concerning Separation from Service
before Attaining Age Fifty), each Retirement and Special Purpose Account will be distributed to the Participant in a single lump-sum cash payment, or in a series of annual cash installment payments, in accordance with the Participant s election
with respect to each such account. Annual installments shall be payable to the Participant beginning as of the payment commencement date and continuing as of each anniversary of the payment commencement date thereafter until all installments have
been paid. To determine the amount of each installment, the value of the Participant s Plan Account on the payment date will be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of scheduled
installments that remain unpaid.         
   Page 15   

Section 6.3 Separation from Service before Attaining Age Fifty       If a Participant s Separation from Service occurs before the Participant attains age fifty (50), the full value of the Participant s Plan
Account will be distributed to the Participant in a lump-sum payment in April following the Participant s Separation from Service (or, if the Participant is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her Separation from Service, on the date
provided in Section 6.4, below, if later) regardless of the distribution option elected.      If a Participant has a Separation from
Service and is later re-hired by a UTC Company, the Participant s age at the time of the Participant s first Separation from Service will determine how the Participant s Plan Account at the time of the first Separation from Service is
distributed. If the Participant accumulates any additional deferrals after the Participant is re-hired, the Plan shall separately account for the additional deferrals (and related investment gains or losses), and the Participant s age at the
time of the Participant s second Separation from Service will determine how the additional amounts are distributed.       Section 6.4 Separation from Service of Specified Employees       If the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date
of the Participant s Separation from Service, any distribution of the Participant s Plan Account to the Participant that is made on account of the Participant s Separation from Service will not be made or commence earlier than the
first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service. The Plan Account shall continue to accrue hypothetical investment gains and losses as provided in Article V until the distribution date.         
   Page 16   

Section 6.5 Distribution in the Event of Death       In the event of the death of a Participant, the full value of the Participant s Plan Account will be distributed to the designated Beneficiary in a
lump sum on the first business day of the month following the Participant s death.       Section 6.6 Accelerated Distribution
in the Case of an Unforeseeable Emergency       (a) Unforeseeable Emergency. The Committee may, upon a Participant s written
application, agree to an accelerated distribution of some or all of the value of Participant s Plan Account upon the showing of an unforeseeable emergency. An  unforeseeable emergency  is a severe financial hardship to the Participant
resulting from (1) an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s Beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in IRC Section 152, without regard to Section 152(b)(1),
(b)(2), and (d)(1)(B)); (2) loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or (3) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. Whether a
Participant is faced with an unforeseeable emergency permitting a distribution is to be determined based on the relevant facts and circumstances of each case. Acceleration will not be granted if the emergency is or may be relieved through
reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.
     (b) Amount of Distribution Permitted Upon an Unforeseeable Emergency. Distributions on account of an unforeseeable emergency, as defined
in Section 6.6(a), shall be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need. Such amount may include amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to
result from the distribution.         
   Page 17   

(c) The Committee will determine from which Special Purpose or Retirement Accounts and associated
Investment Funds hardship distributions will be made. Any Participant who is an officer or director of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is not eligible for distributions on account of
unforeseeable emergency.       Section 6.7 Disability       In the event of the Disability of a Participant, the Participant s Plan Accounts will be maintained and distributed in accordance with the
Participant s elections on file.       Section 6.8 Administrative Adjustments in Payment Date       A payment is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later
date that is either (a) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or before September 30), or (b) by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose
specified due date is on or after October 1). A payment also is treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan. In no event will a payment
to a Specified Employee be made or commence earlier than the first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service. A Participant may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the
administrative rules in this Section 6.9.         
   Page 18   

ARTICLE VII AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN         Section 7.1 Amendment       The
Corporation may, at any time, amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided that no amendment may decrease the value of any Plan Accounts as of the date of such amendment. In the event of any change in law or regulation relating to the Plan and the
tax treatment of Plan Accounts, the Plan shall, without further action by the Committee, be deemed to be amended to comply with any such change in law or regulation effective as of the first date necessary to prevent the taxation, constructive
receipt or deemed distribution of Plan Accounts prior to the date Plan Accounts would be distributed under the provisions of Article VI.       Section 7.2 Plan Suspension and Termination       (a) The Corporation s Pension Administration Committee, may, at
any time, suspend or terminate the Plan with respect to new or existing Election Forms if, in its sole judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best
interest of the Corporation or for any other reason.      (b) In the event of the suspension of the Plan, no additional deferrals shall be made
under the Plan, but all previous deferrals shall accumulate and be distributed in accordance with the otherwise applicable provisions of the Plan and the applicable elections on file.      (c) Upon the termination of the Plan with respect to all Participants, and the termination of all arrangements sponsored by the Corporation or its
affiliates that would be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A of the Code, the Corporation shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and  
       
   Page 19   

notwithstanding any elections made by the Participant, to pay the Participant s Plan Account in a lump sum, to the extent permitted under
Section 409A. All payments that may be made pursuant to this Section 7.2 shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth month and no later than the twenty-fourth month after the termination of the Plan. The Corporation may not accelerate
payments pursuant to this Section 7.2 if the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in the Corporation s financial health within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(C)(1). If the Corporation exercises its
discretion to accelerate payments under this Section 7.2, it shall not adopt any new arrangement that would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within three years following the date of the Plan s termination.
      Section 7.3 No Consent Required       The consent of any Participant, Beneficiary, or other person shall not be required with respect to any amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan.        ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS         Section 8.1 Unsecured General Creditor  
     The Corporation s obligations under the Plan constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future.
Participants  and Beneficiaries  rights under the Plan are solely those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No assets will be placed in trust, set aside or otherwise segregated to fund or offset liabilities in respect of
the Plan or Participants  Plan Accounts.         
   Page 20   

Section 8.2 Nonassignability       No Participant or Beneficiary or any other person shall have the right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Plan.
All Plan Accounts and the rights to all payments are unassignable and non-transferable. Plan Accounts or payment hereunder, prior to actual payment, will not be subject to attachment or seizure for the payment of any debts, judgments or other
obligations. Plan Accounts or other Plan benefit will not be transferred by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any Beneficiary s bankruptcy or insolvency.       Section 8.3 No Contract of Employment       Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between any UTC Company and the Participant. Participants and Beneficiaries will have no rights against any
UTC Company resulting from participation in the Plan other than as specifically provided herein. Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of any UTC Company for any length of time or to
interfere with the right of any UTC Company to terminate a Participant s employment prior to the end of any Deferral Period.       Section 8.4 Governing Law       The provisions of the Plan will be construed and interpreted according to the laws of
the State of Connecticut, to the extent not preempted by federal law.         
   Page 21   

Section 8.5 Validity       If any provision of the Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions of the Plan will be construed and enforced as if
such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.       Section 8.6 Notice       Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if sent by first-class mail, to the United
Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, 1 Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: Director, Compensation, MS-504. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to any Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan
shall be sufficient if provided either electronically, hand-delivered, or mailed to the address (or email address, as the case may be) of the Participant or Beneficiary then listed on the records of the Corporation. Any such notice will be deemed
given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or email system.       Section 8.7 Successors       The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation and its
successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity, which by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation,
and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.         
   Page 22   

Section 8.8 Incompetence       If the Committee determines, upon evidence satisfactory to the Committee, that any Participant or Beneficiary to whom a benefit is payable under the Plan
is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly authorized guardian or other legal representative) may be paid, upon appropriate indemnification of
the Committee and the Corporation, to the spouse of the Participant or other person deemed by the Committee to have incurred expenses for the benefit of and on behalf of such Participant or Beneficiary. Any such payment from a Participant s
Plan Account shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan with respect to the amount so paid.       Section 8.9 Section 409A Compliance.       To the extent that rights or payments under this Plan are subject to
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan shall be construed and administered in compliance with the conditions of Section 409A and regulations and other guidance issued pursuant to Section 409A for deferral of income
taxation until the time the compensation is paid. Any distribution election that would not comply with Section 409A of the Code shall not be effective for purposes of this Plan. To the extent that a provision of this Plan does not comply with
Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be void and without effect. The Corporation does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment In no event
shall any UTC Company; any director, officer, or employee of a UTC Company (other than the Participant); or any member of the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of
the Plan s failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other requirements of applicable tax laws.         
   Page 23   

Section 8.10 Withholding Taxes       The Committee may make any appropriate arrangements to deduct from all deferrals and payments under the Plan any taxes that the Committee reasonably
determines to be required by law to be withheld from such credits and payments.        ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION AND CLAIMS         Section 9.1 Plan Administration       The Committee shall be solely responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan. The Committee shall have full and exclusive authority and discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to establish such administrative
procedures as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Plan.      Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an
interpretation or ruling under the Plan, or requesting information under the Plan shall present the request in writing to the Committee at United Technologies Corporation, 1 Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: Deferred Compensation
Committee. The Committee shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.       Section 9.2 Claim Procedures       A Participant or Beneficiary who believes that he or she has been denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (referred to in this
Section 9.2 as a  Claimant ) may file a written request with the Committee setting forth the claim. The Committee shall consider and resolve the claim as set forth below.         
   Page 24   

(a) Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee shall advise the Claimant that a response will be forthcoming
within 90 days. The Committee may, however, extend the response period for up to an additional 90 days for reasonable cause, and shall notify the Claimant of the reason for the extension and the expected response date. The Committee shall respond to
the claim within the specified period.      (b) If the claim is denied in whole or part, the Committee shall provide the Claimant with a
written decision, using language calculated to be understood by the Claimant, setting forth (1) the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (2) the specific reference to relevant provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based;
(3) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation why such material or such information is necessary; (4) appropriate information as to the steps to be
taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; (5) the time limits for requesting a review of the claim; and (6) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.      (c) Within 60 days after the Claimant s receipt of the written decision denying the claim in whole or in part, the Claimant may request in writing
that the Committee review the determination. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, review the relevant documents and submit issues and comment in writing for consideration by the Committee. If the Claimant does
not request a review of the initial determination within such 60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred from challenging the determination.      (d) Within 60 days after the Committee receives a request for review, it will review the initial determination. If special circumstances require that the 60-day time period be extended, the Committee will so notify the Claimant and will
render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review.         
   Page 25   

(e) All decisions on review shall be final and binding with respect to all concerned parties. The
decision on review shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, (1) the specific reasons for the decision, including references to the relevant Plan provisions upon which the decision is based; (2) the
Claimant s right to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information, relevant to his or her benefits; and (3) the Claimant s right to bring an action for
benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.       CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS       The Plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). Because the Plan is an unfunded plan maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing
deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, the Plan is exempt from most of ERISA s requirements. Although the Plan is subject to Part 1 (Reporting and Disclosure) and Part 5 (Administration and
Enforcement) of Title I, Subtitle B of ERISA, the Department of Labor has issued a regulation that exempts the Plan from most of ERISA s reporting and disclosure requirements.         
   Page 26   

TO WHOM SHOULD QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE PLAN BE DIRECTED?       All questions concerning the operation of the Plan (including information concerning the administrators of the Plan) should be directed to:      Director, Compensation      United Technologies
Corporation      1 Financial Plaza, MS 504      Hartford, Connecticut 06101      Telephone: 860-728-6381       
  
   Page 27   

Appendix A       This Appendix A sets forth the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as in effect on October 4, 2004 ( Prior Plan ), and as modified thereafter from time to time in a manner that
does not constitute a  material modification  for purposes of Section 409A. Amounts that were earned and vested (within the meaning of Section 409A) prior to January 1, 2005, and any subsequent increases in these amounts
that are permitted to be treated as grandfathered benefits under Section 409A, are generally subject to and shall continue to be governed by the terms of this Prior Plan.         
   Page 28   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        (As amended and restated effective
September 1, 2002)         ARTICLE I PREAMBLE        United Technologies Corporation established the United Technologies Deferred Compensation Plan effective April 1, 1985. Pursuant to such Plan, certain eligible executives of the Corporation deferred all or a
portion of their compensation earned with respect to 1985 and 1986. No compensation earned after 1986 was deferred under the Plan until the Plan was amended and restated effective December 15, 1993 to offer eligible executives the opportunity
to defer all or a portion of Compensation earned or otherwise payable in 1994 and subsequent years. The Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective September 1, 2002, to reflect administrative changes and enhancements.        ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS         Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated by the Participant to receive the value of his or her Plan Accounts in the event of the Participant s death. If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or the
Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant, the value of the Participant s Plan Accounts will be paid to the estate of the Participant.       Benefit Reduction  means either a reduction in a Participant s (or the Participant s Beneficiary s) benefit under any of the
Corporation s defined benefit pension plans or a reduction in the value of employer matching or other contributions under any of the Corporation s savings or other tax qualified defined contribution retirement plans as a result of the
reduction of such Participant s Compensation pursuant to this Plan.         Class Year  means each calendar year for which
Compensation has been deferred pursuant to the Plan prior to 2003.         
   Page 29   

Class Year Account  means the account established for each Participant for each Class Year for
which Compensation has been deferred under the Plan prior to January 1, 2003.       Committee  means the United Technologies
Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, which is responsible for the administration of the Plan. The Corporation s Pension Administration Committee shall appoint the Committee s members.       Compensation  means base salary and Incentive Compensation Payments otherwise payable to a Participant and considered to be wages for purposes of
federal income tax withholding, but before any deferral of Compensation pursuant to the Plan. Compensation does not include foreign service premiums and allowances, compensation realized from Long Term Incentive Plan awards or other types of awards.
      Corporation  means United Technologies Corporation, its divisions, affiliates and subsidiaries.       Credited Interest  Account means the Investment Fund that is valued in the manner set forth in Section 5.2.       Deferral Period  means the period prior to the receipt of Compensation deferred hereunder.       Election Form  means the enrollment form provided by the Committee to Participants electronically or in paper form for the purpose of deferring
Compensation under the Plan. Each Participant s Election Form must specify: the amount to be deferred from base salary and/or from any Incentive Compensation Payment with respect to the following calendar year; the respective amounts to be
allocated to the Participant s Retirement Account and/or Special Purpose Account or Accounts; the percentage allocation among the Investment Funds with respect to each such Account; the method of distribution of each such Account; and the
Deferral Period for each Special Purpose Account. There will be a separate Election Form for each calendar year.         
   Page 30   

Incentive Compensation Payment  means amounts awarded to a Participant pursuant to the
Corporation s Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.       Investment Fund  means the Credited Interest Account, the S P
500 Account, the UTC Stock Unit Account or such other investment option as may be established by the Committee from time to time. The value of Participants  Accounts shall be adjusted to replicate the performance of the applicable Investment
Fund. Amounts allocated to any Investment Fund do not result in any investment in actual assets corresponding to the Investment Fund.       Participant  means an executive of the Corporation who is paid from a US payroll, files a U.S. income tax return, and who elects to defer Compensation under the Plan.       Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective September 1, 2002, and as amended
from time to time thereafter.       Plan Accounts  means the aggregate value of all Class Year Accounts, Special Purpose Accounts, and
Retirement Account, but excluding accounts under the Prior Plan. Accounts under the Prior Plan will be valued and administered separately in accordance with the terms and procedures in effect under the Prior Plan.       Prior Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as in effect prior to December 15, 1993. All amounts
deferred and credited under the Prior Plan shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan and shall not be affected by this amendment and restatement.         
   Page 31   

Retirement Account  means a Plan Account maintained on behalf of the Participant that will be
distributed in the manner elected by the Participant commencing in April of the calendar year following the Participant s Retirement Date.       Retirement  means attainment of age 65; attainment of at least age 55 and a minimum of 10 or more years of  continuous service  (as defined in one of the Corporation s retirement plans); or termination of employment on
or after age 50 and before age 55, with a combination of age and years of service equal to at least 65 (the  Rule of 65 ).          Retirement Date  means the date a Participant terminates employment from the Corporation on or after attaining eligibility for Retirement.       S P 500 Account  means an Investment Fund that is valued in the manner set forth in Section 5.4.       Special Purpose Account  means a Plan Account maintained on behalf of the Participant that will be distributed in the manner elected by the Participant commencing in April of the calendar year specified by the Participant. The minimum
Deferral Period is five (5) calendar years following the end of the calendar year for which the Account is established.       UTC Common
Stock  means the common stock of United Technologies Corporation.       UTC Stock Unit Account  means the Investment Fund that is
valued in the manner set forth in Section 5.3.         
   Page 32   

ARTICLE III ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION         Section 3.1 Eligibility       Each employee of
the Corporation who is classified as an eligible Participant as of December 31 will be eligible to elect to defer Compensation under the Plan in respect of the subsequent calendar year in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the rules and
procedures established by the Committee.       Section 3.2 Participation       Each eligible Participant may elect to participate in the Plan with respect to any calendar year for which the Committee offers the opportunity to defer
Compensation by timely filing with the Committee an Election Form, properly completed in accordance with Section 4.1. Participation in the Plan is entirely voluntary.        ARTICLE IV PARTICIPANT ELECTIONS         Section 4.1 Election       An eligible Participant may participate in the Plan by executing the Election Form provided by the Committee for the subsequent calendar year. The
eligible Participant must designate the dollar amount of base salary that will be deferred during such calendar year, and/or the percentage or dollar amount of any Incentive Compensation Payment otherwise payable during such calendar year that will
be deferred under the Plan. The minimum dollar amount that a Participant may defer under the Plan for any calendar year is $5,000. Any deferral election made in the Election Form is irrevocable and must be completed and returned to the Committee no
later than the December 31 immediately preceding the calendar year to which the election applies, or such earlier date as the Committee may specify. If an eligible executive fails to return a properly completed Election Form by such date, the
executive will be ineligible to defer Compensation under the Plan for the following calendar year.         
   Page 33   

Section 4.2 Investment Fund Allocations       When completing the Election Form, the Participant must allocate the amounts to be deferred, in whole percentages divisible by 10, among the
available Investment Funds.      Participants may reallocate their existing post-1993 Class Year Accounts, Special Purpose Accounts and
Retirement Account among the available Investment Funds as permitted by the Committee, generally once per year. Such reallocations shall be in whole percentages divisible by 10 and, unless otherwise specified by the Committee, shall be effective
January 1 of the calendar year following the date of the reallocation election.       Section 4.3 Designation of Beneficiary    
  Each Participant shall designate a Beneficiary for his or her Plan Accounts on a form provided by the Committee. Such designation may be changed on a
form acceptable to the Committee at any time by the Participant. In the event that no Beneficiary designation is filed with the Committee, or if the Beneficiary (and contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant, all amounts deferred
hereunder will be paid to the estate of the Participant in a lump sum. If a Participant designates the Participant s spouse as the Participant s Beneficiary, that designation shall not be revoked or otherwise altered or affected by any:
(a) change in the marital status of the Participant; (b) agreement between the Participant and such spouse; or (c) judicial decree (such as a divorce decree) affecting any rights that the Participant and such spouse might have as a
result of their marriage, separation, or divorce; it being the intent of the Plan that any change in the designation of a Beneficiary hereunder may be made by the Participant only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4.3.
In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions shall be made in accordance with Section 6.4.         
   Page 34   

Section 4.4 Deferral Period       Each Participant shall specify in the Election Form the Deferral Period for amounts to be deferred in the following calendar year. The minimum Deferral
Period for a Special Purpose Account is five (5) calendar years following the end of the calendar year in which the Account is established. Participants may defer Compensation into a Retirement Account until April of the calendar year following
their Retirement Date.       Section 4.5 Distribution Schedule       Each Participant shall specify in the Election Form whether the value of the Participant s Retirement or Special Purpose Account shall be distributed in a single lump-sum cash payment or in a series of annual
cash installment payments for a specified number of years (not to exceed 15 years).        ARTICLE V PLAN ACCOUNTS         Section 5.1 Accounts       Prior to 2003, the
Committee established a Class Year Account for each Participant with respect to each Class Year for which the Participant elected to defer Compensation under the Plan. Each Class Year Account will be maintained separately.      Amounts deferred in 2003 and subsequent calendar years will be allocated to a Retirement Account and/or one or more Special Purpose Accounts as elected
by the Participant. The Committee will establish the maximum number of Special Purpose Accounts.         
   Page 35   

Participants  Plan Accounts shall be allocated or reallocated among Investment Funds in accordance
with each Participant s instructions in the manner set forth in Section 4.2.       Section 5.2 Valuation of Credited Interest Account
      Deferred amounts allocated to the Credited Interest Account will be credited with a rate of interest equal to the average interest
rate on 10-Year Treasury Bonds as of the last business day of each month from January through October in the prior calendar year, plus 1%.       Section 5.3 Valuation of UTC Stock Unit Account       Deferred Compensation allocated to the UTC Stock Unit Account
will be converted to Stock Units, or fractional Stock Units. A UTC Stock Unit is equal to the closing price of one share of UTC Common Stock as reported on the composite tape of the New York Stock Exchange. The number of Stock Units will be
calculated by dividing the amount of Compensation deferred by the closing price of UTC Common Stock on the date the deferred amounts otherwise would have been paid. Stock Units held in the UTC Stock Unit Account will be credited with a dividend
payment equal to the Corporation s declared dividend on UTC Common Stock (if any). Such dividend equivalent payments will be converted to additional Stock Units or fractional units using the closing price of UTC Common Stock as of the date such
dividends are credited to the Participant s UTC Stock Unit Account.       Section 5.4 Valuation of S P 500 Account       Deferred amounts allocated to the S P 500 Account will be converted to S P Account units based on the closing share price of the Vanguard 500
Index Fund as of date the deferred amount is credited to the Participant s S P 500 Account. The value of the S P 500 Account units will fluctuate on a daily basis based on the performance of the Vanguard 500 Index Fund.         
   Page 36   

Section 5.5 Allocation to Accounts       During the year of deferral, deferred amounts will be allocated to the Participant s Plan Accounts and Investment Funds as of the date the deferred
amounts would otherwise have been paid.       Section 5.6 Reports to Participants       The Committee will provide or make available detailed information to Participants regarding the value of Plan Accounts, distribution elections,
Beneficiary designations, Investment Fund allocations and credited values for Class Year, Retirement and Special Purpose Accounts, not less than once per year. Such information may be provided via electronic media as determined by the Committee.
        
   Page 37   

ARTICLE VI DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS         Section 6.1 Timing of Plan Distributions       The value of a Participant s Retirement
Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) in April of the calendar year following the Retirement Date. The value of a Participant s Special Purpose Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) in April of the
specified year. This means, for example, that if a deferral election specifies a Deferral Period until 2015, distribution will occur in April of 2015.      The value of a Participant s Class Year Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) in April of the last year of the Deferral Period. Upon Retirement, the value of a Participant s Class Year
Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) in April next following the Retirement Date, or in April of the calendar year following the Retirement Date, as elected.       Section 6.2 Method of Distribution       Each Class Year, Retirement and Special Purpose Account
will be distributed in a single lump-sum cash payment, or in a series of annual cash installment payments, in accordance with the Participant s election with respect to each such Account.       Section 6.3 Termination of Employment       In
the event of termination of employment prior to a Participant s Retirement Date, during or after the Deferral Period with respect to any Class Year, Retirement or Special Purpose Account, the full value of the Participant s Plan Accounts
will be distributed in a lump-sum cash payment in April following the date of termination, regardless of the distribution option elected.         
   Page 38   

Section 6.4 Distribution in the Event of Death       In the event of the death of a Participant prior to attaining eligibility for Retirement, and before the end of the Deferral Period with respect to any
Plan Account, the full value of such Plan Accounts will be distributed to the designated Beneficiary in a lump sum as soon as administratively feasible.      In the event of the death of a Participant prior to attaining eligibility for Retirement, but after the end of the Deferral Period with respect to any Plan Account, the full value of such Plan Accounts will be
distributed to the designated Beneficiary in accordance with the Participant s distribution election on file.      In the event of death
of a Participant after attaining eligibility for Retirement, the full value of the Participant s Plan Accounts will be distributed to the Beneficiary in accordance with the Participant s distribution elections on file.      If the Beneficiary is the Participant s estate, the full value of the Participant s Plan Accounts will be paid in a single lump sum as soon as
administratively feasible following the Participant s date of death.      In the event of the death of the Beneficiary (and any contingent
Beneficiary) while receiving distributions from the Plan, the full value of the applicable Plan Accounts will be paid in a single lump sum to such Beneficiary s estate as soon as administratively feasible.         
   Page 39   

Section 6.5 Hardship Distribution       The Committee may, in its sole discretion, upon finding that the Participant (or Beneficiary in the event of a Participant s death) has suffered an
unforeseen, severe and immediate financial emergency, permit such Participant to withdraw a portion of the value of the Participant s Plan Accounts in an amount sufficient to eliminate the hardship. Financial hardship distributions will be made
only if the Committee determines that the Participant is unable to resolve the financial emergency through other means reasonably available to the Participant. Financial hardship distributions will be made following the Committee s
determination of a qualifying financial emergency on the basis of the value of the Participant s Plan Accounts as of the most recent date available. The Committee will determine from which Special Purpose, Retirement or Class Year Accounts and
associated Investment Funds hardship distributions will be made. Any Participant who is an officer or director of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is not eligible for financial hardship
distributions.       Section 6.6 Disability       In the event of the disability of a Participant, as determined under the Corporation s Long Term Disability Plan, the Participant s Plan Accounts will be maintained and distributed in accordance with the
Participant s elections on file.       Section 6.7 Distribution from Supplemental Account       The Committee will effect distributions from supplemental retirement plans with respect to Benefit Reductions incurred in any of the Corporation s
defined benefit pension plans at the same time, in the same manner and in the required amounts such that when combined with benefits provided by the defined benefit pension plans in which a Participant incurred a Benefit  
       
   Page 40   

Reduction, the total amount received by a Participant (or Beneficiary) will equal the amount of pension benefit that would otherwise have been paid had the
Participant not participated in this Plan.      At the end of each calendar year, the Committee will determine if any Benefit Reduction has
been incurred with respect to any of the Corporation s savings plans or other tax qualified defined contribution retirement plans, and will credit the amount of such Benefit Reduction to the affected Participant s Plan Accounts as of the
last business day of the calendar year. Any such amounts will be allocated on a pro-rata basis to the Participant s Plan Accounts and Investment Funds in accordance with the Participant s deferral elections on file for that calendar year.
       ARTICLE VII AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN         Section 7.1 Amendment       The Corporation may, at any time, amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided that no
amendment may decrease the value of any Plan Accounts as of the date of such amendment. In the event of any change in law or regulation relating to the Plan and the tax treatment of Plan Accounts, the Plan shall, without further action by the
Committee, be deemed to be amended to comply with any such change in law or regulation effective the first date necessary to prevent the taxation, constructive receipt or deemed distribution of Plan Accounts prior to the date Plan Accounts would be
distributed under the provisions of Article VI.       Section 7.2 Plan Suspension and Termination       The Corporation s Pension Administration Committee, may, at any time, suspend or terminate the Plan with respect to new or existing Election Forms
if, in its sole judgment, the  
       
   Page 41   

continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments hereunder would not be in the best interest of the Corporation
or for any other reason. In the event of the suspension of the Plan, no additional deferral shall be made under the Plan, but all previous deferrals shall accumulate and be distributed in accordance with the otherwise applicable provisions of the
Plan and the applicable elections on file. In the event of the termination of the Plan, each Participant will receive, in a lump-sum cash payment, the value of his or her Plan Accounts.       Section 7.3 No Consent Required       The consent of any Participant, Beneficiary, or other
person shall not be required with respect to any amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan.        ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS   
      Section 8.1 Unsecured General Creditor       The Corporation s obligations under the Plan constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future. Participants  and Beneficiaries  rights under the Plan are solely those of a general
unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No assets will be placed in trust, set aside or otherwise segregated to fund or offset liabilities in respect of the Plan or Participants  Plan Accounts.       Section 8.2 Nonassignability       No
Participant or Beneficiary or any other person shall have right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Plan. All Plan Accounts and the rights to all  
       
   Page 42   

payments are unassignable and non-transferable. Plan Accounts or payment hereunder, prior to actual payment, will not be subject to attachment or seizure for
the payment of any debts, judgments or other obligations. Plan Accounts or other Plan benefit will not be transferred by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any Beneficiary s bankruptcy or insolvency.       Section 8.3 No Contract of Employment       Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between the Corporation and the Participant. Participants and Beneficiaries will have no rights against the Corporation resulting
from participation in the Plan other than as specifically provided herein. Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of the Corporation for any length of time or to interfere with the right of
the Corporation to terminate a Participant s employment prior to the end of any Deferral Period.       Section 8.4 Governing Law
      The provisions of the Plan will be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Connecticut, to the extent not
preempted by federal law.       Section 8.5 Validity       If any provision of the Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions of the Plan will be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted
herein.         
   Page 43   

Section 8.6 Notice       Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if sent by first-class mail, to the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, 1
Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: R. Larry Acorn, Director, Compensation, MS-504. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to any Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan shall be sufficient if provided either
electronically, hand-delivered, or mailed to the address (or email address, as the case may be) of the Participant or Beneficiary then listed on the records of the Corporation. Any such notice will be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if
delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or email system.       Section 8.7 Successors       The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation and its successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall
include any corporate or other business entity, which by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation, and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.
      Section 8.8 Incompetence       If
the Committee determines, upon evidence satisfactory to the Committee, that any Participant or Beneficiary to whom a benefit is payable under the Plan is unable to care for their affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless prior
claim therefore shall have been made by a duly authorized guardian or other legal representative) may be paid, upon appropriate indemnification of the Committee and the Corporation, to the spouse of the Participant or other person deemed by the
Committee to have incurred expenses for the benefit of and on behalf of such Participant or Beneficiary. Any such payment from a Participant s Plan Accounts shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan with respect to the
amount so paid.         
   Page 44   

ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION AND CLAIMS         Section 9.1 Plan Administration       The Committee shall be solely responsible for the
administration and operation of the Plan. The Committee shall have full and exclusive authority and discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to establish such administrative procedures as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out
the purposes of the Plan.      Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under the Plan, or requesting information
under the Plan shall present the request in writing to the Committee which shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.       Section 9.2 Claim
Procedures       If a Participant or Beneficiary requests a benefit or payment under the Plan and such claim or request is denied, the
Committee will provide a written notice of denial which will specify (a) the reason for denial, with specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the denial is based and (b) a description of any additional material or information
that may be required with respect to the claim and an explanation of why such information is necessary.      If a claim or request is denied or
if the Participant or Beneficiary receives no response within 60 days, the Participant or Beneficiary may request review by writing to the Committee. The Committee will review the claim or request, and may request additional information or materials
that it deems appropriate to the resolution of any issues presented. The decision on  
       
   Page 45   

review will normally be made by the Committee within 60 days of its receipt of the request for review but may be extended up to 120 days from such date. The
Committee s decision will be in writing and will state the basis for its decision and shall be conclusive and binding on all parties.         
   Page 46   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.28>
 5
 dex1028.htm
 SCHEDULE OF TERMS FOR PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARDS

Schedule of Terms for performance share unit awards 

Exhibit 10.28        United Technologies Corporation        Long Term Incentive Plan        Performance Share Unit Award           Schedule of Terms          This Schedule of Terms describes the material features of the recipient s Performance Share
Unit Award ( Award ) granted under the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan as amended and restated on April 9, 2008 (the  LTIP ). The Award is subject to this Schedule of Terms and the terms,
definitions, and provisions of the LTIP. The LTIP Prospectus contains detailed information about the LTIP and this Award.         
   1   

Performance Share Unit       A Performance Share Unit (a  PSU ) is equal in value to one share of common stock of the Corporation ( Common Stock ). PSUs are generally convertible into shares of Common Stock if and to the extent the associated
pre-established performance targets are achieved (see  Vesting  below).       Acknowledgement of Award       The number of PSUs awarded is set forth in the Statement of Award. The recipient must acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the PSU Award by signing and
returning the designated portion of the Statement of Award to the Stock Plan Administrator by the specified due date.       Vesting       PSUs vest only if pre-established three year performance targets are achieved. Performance targets include: (i) diluted earnings per share; (ii) total
shareowner return; (iii) working capital and gross inventory turnover; and (iv) revenue growth. A PSU Award may be subject to a single or multiple performance targets. The Statement of Award will specify the applicable performance targets,
the performance period and vesting date, the minimum performance required for vesting, the range of vesting relative to measured performance and, if multiple performance targets apply, the relative weighting of each.      In the event of certain types of misconduct, Awards may be forfeited, including vested Awards and gains realized from prior Awards. See  Forfeiture of Interest and
Recoupment of Gains Realized from Prior Awards  on page 3.       No shareowner rights       A PSU is the right to receive a share of Common Stock in the future, subject to continued employment and achievement of performance targets. The holder of a PSU has no voting, dividend or other rights accorded to
owners of Common Stock.       Payment/Conversion of PSUs       PSUs will generally be converted into shares of Common Stock, effective as of the vesting date, when the Committee on Compensation and Executive Development of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the  Committee ) determines
if, and to what extent, PSUs have vested as a result of the achievement of performance targets. If performance targets are not met, the PSUs that do not vest will be cancelled without value. PSUs may be paid in cash where local law restricts the
distribution of Common Stock.       Termination of Employment       If the recipient terminates employment prior to the end of the performance measurement period for any reason other than death, disability, or retirement (including if the recipient meets the  Rule of 65 , below), unvested PSUs
will be cancelled as of the termination date.       Retirement.  The recipient is eligible for retirement (including  Rule of 65 ) under this
Award if the recipient is:      (i) age 65 on date of termination;      (ii) at least age 55 with 10 or more years of continuous service as of the date of termination; or      (iii) meets the  Rule of 65.  The
recipient qualifies for the Rule of 65 if termination of employment occurs after age 50, but before age 55, and the sum of age and continuous service adds up to 65 or more.         
   2   

Following retirement, including termination under the Rule of 65, the unvested PSUs that have been held for at least one
year prior to the date of retirement will remain outstanding and eligible to vest as scheduled, if and to the extent the Committee determines that performance targets have been achieved.      In all cases, PSUs held for less than one year prior to retirement or termination under the Rule of 65 will be cancelled without value.      Service used to determine eligibility for retirement or the  Rule of 65  will be based on continuous service recognized under the recipient s UTC retirement plan.        Disability.   If employment terminates by reason of disability, unvested PSUs will not be forfeited. As long as recipient the recipient remains disabled
under the recipient s UTC disability plan, PSUs not yet vested will remain eligible to vest per the terms of the Award.        Death.   The
number of PSUs awarded will vest and be converted to shares of Common Stock (at target) effective as of the date of death. The shares will be delivered to the estate of the recipient as soon as administratively practicable.        Rehire.   If the recipient terminates employment and is then rehired by the Corporation before the end of the 90 day period immediately following the date of
termination, unvested PSUs that were cancelled because of the termination of employment will be reinstated. If the recipient is rehired by the Corporation after the 90 day period immediately following the date of termination, the recipient will be
treated as a new employee and cancelled PSUs will not be reinstated.       Forfeiture of Interests and Recoupment of Gains Realized from Prior Awards  
     PSUs shall be forfeited and the recipient will be obligated to repay the value realized from the conversion of PSUs into shares of unrestricted Common
Stock under the following circumstances:       

(i)  
  Termination of Employment for Cause;         

(ii)  
  A restatement of financial results attributable to the recipient s actions, whether intentional or negligent;         

(iii)  
  The Committee determines that Award vesting was based on incorrect performance measurement calculations. In such event, vesting (and recoupment, if applicable) will be adjusted
consistent with the actual, corrected results;         

(iv)  
  If within three years following any Termination of Employment, the Committee or the Corporation determines that the recipient engaged in conduct before the recipient s
termination date that would have constituted the basis for a Termination of Employment for Cause;         

(v)  
  If at any time during the twenty-four month period immediately following any Termination of Employment, the recipient:         

(A)  
  solicits for employment or otherwise attempts to retain the professional services of any individual then employed or engaged by the Corporation (other than a person performing
secretarial or similar services) or who was so employed or engaged during the three month period preceding such solicitation; or         

(B)  
  publicly disparages the Corporation or any of its officers, directors or senior executive employees or otherwise makes any public statement that is materially detrimental to the
interests of the Corporation or such individuals; or           
   3   

(vi)  
  If at any time during the twelve month period following any Termination of Employment, the recipient becomes employed by, consults for or otherwise renders services to any business
entity or person engaged in activities that compete with the Corporation or the business unit that employed the recipient, unless the recipient has first obtained the consent of the Committee. A recipient shall be deemed to have been employed by
each business unit that employed the recipient within the two-year period immediately prior to the date of the Termination of Employment.         Adjustments       If the Corporation effects a subdivision or consolidation of shares of Common Stock or other capital adjustment, the number of
PSUs (and the number of shares of Common Stock that will be issued upon conversion) shall be adjusted in the same manner and to the same extent as all other shares of Common Stock of the Corporation. In the event of material changes in the capital
structure of the Corporation resulting from: the payment of a special dividend (other than regular quarterly dividends) or other distributions to shareowners without receiving consideration therefore; the spin-off of a subsidiary; the sale of a
substantial portion of the Corporation s assets; in the event of a merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is not the surviving entity; or other extraordinary non-recurring events affecting the Corporation s capital structure and
the value of Common Stock, equitable adjustments shall be made in the terms of outstanding Awards, including the number of PSUs and underlying shares of Common Stock as the Committee determines are necessary or appropriate to prevent an increase or
decrease in the value of PSUs relative to Common Stock or the dilution or enlargement of the rights of recipients.       Change of Control       In the event of a change of control or restructuring of the Corporation, the Committee may take certain actions with respect to outstanding Awards to assure fair and
equitable treatment of LTIP recipients. Such actions may include: acceleration of the vesting date; offering to purchase an outstanding Award from the holder for its equivalent cash value (as determined by the Committee); or providing for other
adjustments or modifications to outstanding Awards as the Committee may deem appropriate.       Awards Not to Affect or Be Affected by Certain Transactions
      PSU Awards shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Corporation or its shareowners to effect: (a) any or all adjustments,
recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Corporation s capital structure or its business; (b) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation; (c) any issue of bonds, debentures, shares of stock preferred to, or
otherwise affecting the Common Stock of the Corporation or the rights of the holders of such Common Stock; (d) the dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation; (e) any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business; or
(f) any other corporate act or proceeding.       Taxes/Withholding       Recipients are responsible for any income or other tax liability attributable to any Award. The closing price of UTC s Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the vesting date will be used to calculate
income realized from the vesting of PSUs. The Corporation shall take such steps as are appropriate to assure compliance with applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. The Corporation shall, to the extent required by law, have
the right to deduct directly from any payment or delivery of shares due to a recipient or from the recipient s regular compensation, all federal, state and local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of
any PSU. Recipients not based in the United States and foreign nationals who are not permanent residents of the United States must pay the appropriate taxes as required by any country where they are subject to tax. A discussion of U.S. Federal tax
treatment of PSUs may be found in the LTIP prospectus.         
   4   

Deferral of Gain (U.S. based executives)       A recipient who qualifies as a Participant under the LTIP PSU Deferral Plan may irrevocably elect to defer the conversion of vested PSUs into shares of Common Stock to a date that is at least five years after the
scheduled vesting date. The election to defer the conversion of shares must be made no later than the end of the second year of the performance measurement period, or such earlier date as may be specified by the Committee. Vested PSUs subject to a
deferral election will be converted to unfunded deferred share units that will convert into shares of Common Stock on the distribution date as specified in the deferral election and the LTIP PSU Deferral Plan. Deferred share units will be credited
with dividend equivalents. Under U.S. income tax law, a recipient will generally not be taxed until the resulting deferred share units are converted to shares of Common Stock and distributed. Deferred share units will not be funded by the
Corporation. In this regard, a recipient s rights to deferred share units are those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. Details of the deferral of PSUs into deferred share units will be provided with the election materials. The
opportunity to make such an election is subject to changes in Federal tax law. The Committee reserves the right to discontinue offering PSU deferral elections at any time for any reason it deems appropriate in its sole discretion.       Nonassignability       Unless otherwise prescribed by the Committee, no
assignment or transfer of any right or interest of an recipient in any PSU, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempt to assign such
rights or interest shall be void and without force or effect.       Nature of Payments       All Awards made pursuant to the LTIP are in consideration of services performed for the Corporation or the business unit employing the recipient. Any gains realized pursuant to such Awards constitute a special
incentive payment to the recipient and shall not be taken into account as compensation for purposes of any of the employee benefit plans of the Corporation or any business unit.       Administration       Under the LTIP, subject to certain limitations, the Committee has delegated to the Chief Executive
Officer the authority to grant PSU Awards, and has further delegated the authority to administer and interpret such Awards to the Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Organization, and to such subordinates as he or she may further delegate.
Awards to employees of the Corporation who are either reporting persons under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Insiders ) or members of the Corporation s Executive Leadership Group will be granted,
administered, and interpreted exclusively by the Committee.       Data Privacy       The Corporation maintains electronic records for the purpose of administering the LTIP and individual Awards. In the normal course of plan administration, electronic data may be transferred to different sites within
the Corporation and to outside service providers. Acceptance of an Award constitutes consent by the recipient to the transmission of information related to the administration of Awards and the LTIP.         
   5   

Government Contract Compliance       The  UTC Policy Statement on Business Ethics and Conduct in Contracting with the United States Government  calls for compliance with the letter and spirit of government contracting laws and regulations. In
the event of a violation of government contracting laws or regulations, the Committee reserves the right to revoke any outstanding Award.       Interpretations       This Schedule of Terms and each Statement of Award are subject in all respects to the terms of the LTIP. In the event that
any provision of this Schedule of Terms or any Statement of Award is inconsistent with the terms of the LTIP, the terms of the LTIP shall govern. Any question concerning administration or interpretation arising under the Schedule of Terms or any
Statement of Award shall be determined by the Committee or its delegate, and such determination to be final and conclusive upon all parties in interest.       Additional Information       Questions concerning the Plan or Awards and requests for Plan documents can be directed to:      Stock Plan Administrator      United Technologies
Corporation      1 Financial Plaza, MS 504      Hartford, CT 06101      stockoptionplans@utc.com      The Corporation and/or its approved Stock Plan Administrator will send any Award-related communications to the recipient s email address or physical address on record. It is the responsibility of the recipient to ensure the address on
record is up-to-date and accurate at all times to ensure delivery of Award-related communications.         
   6   

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 6
 dex1029.htm
 SCHEDULE OF TERMS FOR STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS AWARDS

Schedule of Terms for stock appreciation rights awards 

Exhibit 10.29        United Technologies Corporation        Long Term Incentive Plan        Stock Appreciation Right           Schedule of Terms          This Schedule of Terms describes the material features of the recipient s Stock Appreciation
Right Award ( Award ) granted under the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan as amended and restated on April 9, 2008 (the  LTIP ). The Award is subject to this Schedule of Terms and the terms,
definitions, and provisions of the LTIP. The LTIP Prospectus contains detailed information about the LTIP and this Award.         
   1   

Stock Appreciation Right Award       A Stock Appreciation Right (a  SAR ) provides the recipient with the right to the appreciation in the common stock of the Corporation ( Common Stock ) measured from the date of grant to the date of
exercise.       Acknowledgement of Award       The number of SARs
awarded and the SAR grant price are set forth in the Statement of Award. The recipient must acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the SAR Award by signing and returning the designated portion of the Statement of Award to the Stock Plan
Administrator by the specified due date.       Exercise Price (or  Grant Price )       The Grant Price represents the Fair Market Value of the Corporation s Common Stock on the date of grant. Fair Market Value means, as of any given date, the closing price of the Corporation s Common Stock on
the New York Stock Exchange.       Vesting and Expiration       The vesting and expiration dates are each set forth in the Statement of Award. SARs may be exercised on or after the vesting date until the earlier of:       

(i)  
  the expiration date specified in the Statement of Award, at which time the SARs and all associated rights lapse; or         

(ii)  
  the last day permitted following termination of employment as specified in  Termination of Employment  (see next page).        In the event of certain types of misconduct, awards may be forfeited, including vested awards and prior gains realized from exercises. See  Forfeiture of Interest
and Recoupment of Gains Realized from Prior Awards  on page 4.       Exercise and Payment       While employed, SARs may be exercised on or after the vesting date until the expiration date using the method prescribed by the Corporation. Unexercised SARs will expire
without value on the expiration date. The gross value realized upon the exercise of a SAR will equal the difference between the price at the time of exercise, and the Grant Price. The recipient will generally receive shares of Common Stock upon
exercise. SARs may be paid in cash where local law restricts the distribution of Common Stock.      It is the responsibility of the recipient, or a designated
representative, to track the expiration of their Award and exercise SARs in a timely manner. The Corporation assumes no responsibility for and will make no adjustments with respect to SARs that expire unexercised. Any communication from the Plan
Administrator or the Corporation to the recipient with respect to expiration is provided as a courtesy only.         
   2   

Termination of Employment       There are different provisions based on the circumstances associated with the recipient s termination of employment.       Retirement.  The
recipient is eligible for retirement (including  Rule of 65 ) under this Award if the recipient is:      (i) age 65 on date of termination;
     (ii) at least age 55 with 10 or more years of continuous service as of the date of termination; or      (iii) meets the  Rule of 65.  The recipient qualifies for the Rule of 65 if termination of employment occurs after age 50, but before age 55, and the sum of
age and continuous service adds up to 65 or more.      Following retirement, including termination under the Rule of 65, vested SARs (i.e., those held for at
least three years while continuously employed) may be exercised for three years following the date of retirement or until the expiration of the SAR, whichever is earlier. Unvested SARs that have been held for at least one year prior to the date of
retirement will vest as of the date of retirement and may be exercised for three years thereafter (but not beyond the expiration date).      However, if
retirement occurs on or after age 55  and  the Corporation consents to the recipient s retirement, vested SARs may be exercised SARs for their full term until the expiration date. Such consent will be at the sole discretion of the
Corporation based on its ability to effectively transition the recipient s responsibilities as of the retirement date and such other factors as it may deem appropriate.      Service used to determine eligibility for retirement or the Rule of 65 will be based on continuous service recognized under the rules of the UTC retirement plan.      In all cases, SARs held for less than one year as of the date of retirement or termination under the Rule of 65 will be cancelled without value.       Termination.  If termination occurs before retirement or reaching the Rule of 65, vested SARs may be exercised for up to 90 days (or until the expiration of the
SAR, if earlier) from the date employment with UTC is terminated, whether voluntary or involuntary, including layoff. All unvested SARs are cancelled as of the termination date.       Disability.  If employment terminates by reason of disability, vested SARs may be exercised for up to three years from the date of termination (or until the expiration of the SAR, if earlier). Unvested SARs will
vest as scheduled and may then be exercised for three years following the vesting date.       Death*.  If the recipient dies while an active employee, all
unvested SARs immediately vest. The estate will have one year from the date of death to exercise all outstanding SARs. If death occurs following termination of employment, the estate has one year from the date of death in which to exercise all SARs
outstanding as of the date of death.      *Different tax rules may apply when the estate or heir exercises the deceased employee s SARs.       Rehire.  If the recipient terminates employment and is then rehired by the Corporation within 90 days, unexercised vested SARs and unvested SARs that were
cancelled because of the termination of employment will be reinstated. Unexercised SARs that received accelerated vesting at termination will be subject to the original vesting schedule upon rehire. If the recipient is rehired by the Corporation
after the 90 day period immediately following the date of termination, cancelled SARs will not be reinstated.            
   3   

Forfeiture of Interests and Recoupment of Gains Realized from Prior Awards       SARs, whether or not vested, shall be forfeited and the recipient will be obligated to repay gains realized from the exercise of SARs under the following circumstances:

(i)  
  Termination of Employment for Cause;         

(ii)  
  A restatement of financial results attributable to the recipient s actions, whether intentional or negligent;         

(iii)  
  If within three years following any Termination of Employment, the Committee on Compensation and Executive Development of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the
 Committee ) or the Corporation determines that the recipient engaged in conduct before the recipient s termination date that would have constituted the basis for a Termination of Employment for Cause;         

(iv)  
  If at any time during the twenty-four month period immediately following any Termination of Employment, the recipient:         

(A)  
  solicits for employment or otherwise attempts to retain the professional services of any individual then employed or engaged by the Corporation (other than a person performing
secretarial or similar services) or who was so employed or engaged during the three month period preceding such solicitation; or         

(B)  
  publicly disparages the Corporation or any of its officers, directors or senior executive employees or otherwise makes any public statement that is materially detrimental to the
interests of the Corporation or such individuals; or         

(v)  
  If at any time during the twelve month period following any Termination of Employment, the recipient becomes employed by, consults for or otherwise renders services to any business
entity or person engaged in activities that compete with the Corporation or the business unit that employed the recipient, unless the recipient has first obtained the consent of the Committee. A recipient shall be deemed to have been employed by
each business unit that employed the recipient within the two-year period immediately prior to the date of the Termination of Employment.         Adjustments       If the Corporation effects a Common Stock split or other capital adjustment, the number of SARs (and, if applicable, the
exercise price) will be adjusted in the same manner and to the same extent as shares of Common Stock of the Corporation. In the event of material changes in the capital structure of the Corporation such as the payment of a special dividend (other
than regular quarterly dividends); the spin-off of a subsidiary; a merger; or other extraordinary non-recurring events affecting the Corporation s capital structure and the value of Common Stock, equitable adjustments will be made to the terms
of outstanding awards as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to prevent either an increase or decrease in the value of SARs relative to Common Stock or the dilution or enlargement of the rights of recipients.       Change of Control       In the event of a change of control or
restructuring of the Corporation, the Committee may (in its sole discretion) take actions to assure fair and equitable treatment of LTIP recipients. Such actions may include acceleration of the Vesting Date or offering to purchase an Award for its
equivalent cash value (as determined by the Committee).         
   4   

Awards Not to Affect or Be Affected by Certain Transactions       SAR Awards do not limit the right or power of the Corporation or its shareowners to enter into transactions that may affect Common Stock and the value of this Award;
examples include: (a) changes in the Corporation s capital structure or its business; (b) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation; (c) any issue of bonds, debentures, shares of stock preferred to, or otherwise affecting
the Common Stock of the Corporation or the rights of the holders of such Common Stock; (d) the dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation; (e) any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business; or (f) any other
corporate act or proceeding.       Taxes/Withholding       Recipients are responsible for any income or other tax liability attributable to any Award. Additional details on tax treatment are provided in the LTIP Prospectus. The recipients are encouraged to consult with their personal tax
advisor(s). The Corporation will comply with all tax reporting and withholding requirements and has the right to deduct tax withholding from any payment or delivery of shares due to the recipient or from a recipient s regular compensation.
      Nonassignability       No assignment or transfer of any
right or interest of a recipient in any SAR, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, will be permitted except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.       Nature of Payments       All Awards made pursuant to the LTIP are in consideration of services performed for the
Corporation or the business unit employing the recipient. Any gains realized pursuant to such Awards constitute a special incentive payment to the recipient and will not be taken into account as compensation for purposes of any of the employee
benefit plans of the Corporation or any business unit.       Administration       Under the LTIP, subject to certain limitations, the Committee has delegated to the Chief Executive Officer the authority to grant SAR Awards, and has further delegated the authority to administer and interpret such
Awards to the Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Organization, and to such subordinates as he or she may further delegate. Awards to employees of the Corporation who are either reporting persons under Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 ( Insiders ) or members of the Corporation s Executive Leadership Group will be granted, administered, and interpreted exclusively by the Committee.       Data Privacy       The Corporation maintains electronic records for the purpose of administering the LTIP and individual
Awards. In the normal course of plan administration, electronic data may be transferred to different sites within the Corporation and to outside service providers. Acceptance of an Award constitutes consent by the recipient to the transmission of
information related to the administration of Awards and the LTIP.       Government Contract Compliance       The  UTC Policy Statement on Business Ethics and Conduct in Contracting with the United States Government  calls for compliance with the letter and spirit of
government contracting laws and regulations. In the event of a violation of government contracting laws or regulations, the Committee reserves the right to revoke any outstanding Award.         
   5   

Interpretations       This
Schedule of Terms and each Statement of Award are subject in all respects to the terms of the LTIP. Any question concerning administration or interpretation arising under the Schedule of Terms or any Statement of Award will be determined by the
Committee or the Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Organization, and their determination will be final and conclusive upon all parties in interest.       Additional Information       Questions concerning the Plan or awards and requests for Plan documents can be directed to:      Stock Plan Administrator      United Technologies
Corporation      1 Financial Plaza, MS 504      Hartford, CT 06101       stockoptionplans@utc.com       The Corporation and/or its approved Stock Plan Administrator will send any Award-related communications to the recipient s email address or physical address on record. It is the responsibility of the recipient to
ensure the address on record is up-to-date and accurate at all times to ensure delivery of Award-related communications.         
   6   

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.35>
 7
 dex1035.htm
 UTC INTERNATIONAL DEFERRED COMPENSATION REPLACEMENT PLAN

UTC International Deferred Compensation Replacement Plan 

Exhibit 10.35        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        INTERNATIONAL DEFERRED COMPENSATION        REPLACEMENT PLAN         ARTICLE I   PREAMBLE
       United Technologies Corporation hereby establishes the United Technologies International Deferred Compensation Replacement Plan
( the Plan ), effective January 1, 2005, for the purpose of complying with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan applies to any amounts credited or accrued, after December 31, 2004, to an
employee of a UTC Company who accrues benefits or has amounts credited under a deferred compensation plan or arrangement outside the United States, where such amounts are or become subject to Section 409A. Such amounts shall automatically be
credited and deferred under and distributed from this Plan in lieu of the Non-US Plan. This Plan shall be administered and construed to effectuate the foregoing intent.      From January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated in good faith compliance with Section 409A in accordance with guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service.      1.  INTRODUCTION   PURPOSE       The Plan shall be
maintained as an unfunded plan solely for the purpose of deferring compensation and providing retirement benefits to certain employees who have deferred income or are eligible for benefits under a Non-US Plan, where such amounts would be deemed to
be  deferred compensation  within the meaning of and subject to Section 409A. The amount of deferred income, retirement benefit or survivor benefit shall be credited under this Plan, in lieu of the Non-US Plan.      2.  EFFECTIVE DATE       The Plan shall be effective
January 1, 2005.         
   P AGE  1   

3.  DEFINITIONS        Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated in writing by a Participant to receive the value of his or her Plan Account in the event of the Participant s death, , in accordance with the
terms of this Plan. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary under this Plan, the Beneficiary or Contingent Annuitant shall be determined under the Non-US Plan. If the Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the
Participant or if no Beneficiary is designated under the Non-US Plan, the value of the Participant s Plan Account will be payable to the estate of the Participant, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.       Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto. Reference to any section of the Internal
Revenue Code shall include any final regulations or other published guidance interpreting that section.       Corporation  means United
Technologies Corporation.       Committee  means the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, which is responsible
for the administration of the Plan. The Corporation s Pension Administration Committee shall appoint the Committee s members.       Covered Participant  means an employee who participates in a Non-US Plan who is subject to Section 409A of the Code.       Disability  means permanent and total disability as determined under the Corporation s long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant, or if there is no such plan applicable to the Participant,  Disability 
means a determination of total disability by the Social Security Administration; provided that, in either case, the Participant s condition also qualifies as a  disability  for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code.
      Election Form  means the form provided to Participants electronically or in paper form for the purpose of electing the timing and
form of payment for a Plan Account.         
   P AGE  2   

Non-US Plan  means a deferred compensation plan or arrangement or defined benefit retirement
benefit plan maintained the Corporation or a UTC Company outside of the United States. All amounts credited or deferred under the Non-US Plan prior to December 31, 2004 and amounts credited or deferred under the Non-US Plan which would not be
deemed to be subject to 409A, and any subsequent increases in these amounts, shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the Non-US Plan and shall not be affected by this Plan.       Plan Account  means an account maintained for Covered Participants with respect to 409A Amounts credited or accrued under the Plan.       Retirement  means Separation from Service on or after age 50 and attainment of age 65; Separation from Service on or after age 50 and attainment of
at least age 55 and a minimum of 10 or more years of  continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008); or a Rule of 65 termination.       Retirement Date  means the date of a Participant s Retirement.        Rule of 65  Termination  means Separation from Service on or after age 50 and before age 55, with a combination of age and years of  continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee
Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008) equal to at least 65.       Separation from Service  means a Participant s
Termination of Employment with all UTC Companies, other than by reason of death or Disability that qualifies as a  separation from service  for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. A Separation from Service will be deemed to occur
where the Participant and the UTC Company that employs the Participant reasonably anticipate that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether as an employee or as an independent contractor) will be permanently reduced to a
level that is less than thirty-seven and a half percent (37.5%) of the average level of bona fide services the Participant performed during the immediately preceding 36 months (or the entire period the Participant has provided services if the
Participant has been providing services to the UTC Companies for less than 36 months.) A Participant shall not be considered to have had a Separation from Service as a result of a transfer from one UTC Company to another UTC Company.         
   P AGE  3   

Specified Employee  means each of the 50
highest-paid executives of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, effective annually as of March 31   st   , based on annual salary and incentive
compensation paid in the prior year. The term includes both U.S. and non-U.S. employees.       UTC Company  means United Technologies
Corporation or any entity controlled by or under common control with United Technologies Corporation within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (but substituting  at least 20 percent  for  at least 80
percent  as the control threshold used in applying Sections 414(b) and (c)).       409A Amount  means the amount credited, or the
actuarial present value of a benefit accrued under a Non-US Plan that is or becomes subject to Section 409A of the Code.      4.  ELIGIBILITY 
     Each employee of a UTC Company who is a Participant in a Non-US Plan shall be become a Covered Participant under this Plan if and to the
extent the Participant s Accrued Benefit under a Non-US Plan is subject to 409A. Participation shall commence automatically without any election or other action required of the employee to become a Covered Participant. In no event shall any
person who is not entitled to benefits under a Non-US Plan be eligible for benefits under this Plan. An employee of the UTC Companies who becomes a Covered Participant under this Plan shall be referred to herein as a  Participant. 
     5.  DETERMINATION OF PLAN BENEFIT       The
amount of the benefit payable from this Plan to or in respect of a Participant shall equal the 409A Amount credited or accrued under any Non-US Plan in which the employee participates.      6.  PLAN ACCOUNTS       Plan Accounts shall include amounts credited or accrued to Participants 
Accounts under the Plan on or after January 1, 2005.         
   P AGE  4   

7.  FORM OF PLAN BENEFIT       (a) Plan benefits shall be paid to the Participant, or on his or her behalf to any Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary (as designated under the Non-US Plan), as a single life annuity or actuarially equivalent life
annuity, unless the Participant timely makes an election for an alternative form of payment in accordance with Subparagraph (c) of this Section 7.      (b) A Participant may elect separate payment methods for benefits payable under the Non-US Plan and this Plan.      (c) Unless a Participant elects an alternative form of the benefit payment, benefits earned under the Plan will be paid as a single life annuity or actuarially equivalent life annuity. A Participant may elect to receive a single lump-sum
payment or a series of 2 to 10 annual installment payments. A payment election under the Plan shall be made on an electronic or written Election Form, completed and submitted to the Committee no later than December 31st of the calendar year
prior to the year in which the period of service commences on which the benefit is based. A change in actuarially equivalent annuities shall not be deemed to be a change in payment election for purposes of this Plan. Except as provided below in
Subsection (d), a Participant s payment election shall become irrevocable on the election deadline date.      (d) Change in Payment
Election. A Participant may make a one-time irrevocable election to change the form of payment that the Participant elected under Section 7(c), subject to the following requirements:      (i.) The new election must be made at least twelve months prior to the date payments are scheduled to commence (and the new election shall be ineffective
if the payment commencement date occurs within twelve months after the date of the new election);      (ii.) The new election will not take
effect until at least twelve months after the date when the Participant submits a new Election Form to the Committee; and      (iii.) The new
benefit payment commencement date must be at least five years later than the date on which payments commence under the current election.         
   P AGE  5   

(e) The payment of a monthly annuity, lump-sum or annual installment distribution in accordance with this
Section 7 shall be in full satisfaction of all of the Corporation and/or any UTC Company s obligations with respect to the Participant under the Plan.      8.  DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS       (a) Except as provided in Section 7(d) (concerning the five-year delay following a Change
in Payment Election), Section 8(b) (concerning Separation from Service before Attaining Age Fifty), and 8(c) (concerning distributions to Specified Employees), the value of a Participant s Plan Accounts will be distributed (or begin to be
distributed) to the Participant in April of the calendar year following the Retirement Date, if the benefit is a retirement benefit. If the benefit is income deferred until a set year, the value of a Participant s Plan Account will be
distributed (or begin to be distributed) to the Participant in April of the set year. This means, for example, that if a deferral election specifies a Deferral Period until 2015, distribution will occur in April of 2015.      (b) Separation from Service before Attaining Age Fifty. If a Participant s Separation from Service occurs before the Participant attains age fifty
(50), the full value of the Participant s Plan Account will be distributed to the Participant in a lump-sum payment in April following the Participant s Separation from Service (or, if the Participant is a Specified Employee at the time of
his or her Separation from Service, on the date provided in Subsection 8(c), below, if later) regardless of the distribution option elected.      If a Participant has a Separation from Service and is later re-hired by a UTC Company, the Participant s age at the time of the Participant s first Separation from Service will determine how the Participant s Plan Account at
the time of the first Separation from Service is distributed. If the Participant accumulates any additional deferrals after the Participant is re-hired, the Plan shall separately account for the additional deferrals (and related investment gains or
losses), and the Participant s age at the time of the Participant s second Separation from Service will determine how the additional amounts are distributed.       
  
   P AGE  6   

(c) Separation from Service of Specified Employees. If the Participant is a Specified Employee on the
date of the Participant s Separation from Service, distribution of the Participant s Plan Account to the Participant that is made on account of the Participant s Separation from Service will not be made or commence earlier than the
first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service.      (d) Administrative Adjustments in Payment Date. A payment is
treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (i) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or
before September 30), or (ii) by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1). A payment also is treated as being made on the date
when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan. In no event, will a payment to a Specified Employee be made or commence earlier than the first day of the seventh month following
the date of Separation from Service. A Participant may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this Section 8(c).      9.  DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY        Each Participant
shall designate a Beneficiary for his or her Plan Account on an electronic or written form provided by the Committee. A Participant may change such designation on an electronic or written form acceptable to the Committee and received by the
Committee at any time before the Participant s death. If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary under this Plan, the Beneficiary or Contingent Annuitant shall be determined under the Non-US Plan. If the Beneficiary (and any contingent
Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant or if no Beneficiary is designated under the Non-US Plan, the value of the Participant s Plan Account will be payable to the estate of the Participant, in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
        
   P AGE  7   

10.  DISTRIBUTION IN THE EVENT OF DEATH       In the event of the death of a Participant, the full value of the Participant s Plan Account will be distributed to the designated Beneficiary in a
lump sum on the first business day of the month following the Participant s death.      11.  DISABILITY       In the event of the disability of a Participant, the Participant s Plan Accounts will be maintained and distributed in accordance with the
Participant s elections on file.      12.  MINIMUM BALANCE PAYOUT PROVISION       If a Participant s Plan Account balances under this Plan (and under all other nonqualified deferred compensation plans of the Corporation that are
required to be aggregated with this Plan under Section 409A of the Code), determined at the time of the Participant s Separation From Service, is less than the amount set as the limit on elective deferrals under Section 402(g)(1)(B)
of the Code in effect for the year in which the Participant s Separation From Service occurs, the Committee may distribute the Participant s entire Plan Account balances in a lump sum on the first business day following the
Participant s Separation From Service, notwithstanding a Participant s election to receive a different form of distribution.      13.  FUNDING 
     The Plan shall be maintained as an unfunded Plan that is not intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section 401 of the
Code. All benefits under the Plan shall be payable solely from the general assets of the Corporation. In this regard, the rights of each Participant, Contingent Annuitant and Beneficiary under the Plan with respect to his or her Plan benefit shall
be those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. The Corporation shall not undertake to set aside assets in trust or otherwise segregate assets to fund its obligations under the Plan.         
   P AGE  8   

14.  NONASSIGNABILITY       No Participant, Contingent Annuitant or Beneficiary or any other person shall have the right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Plan. All Plan benefits are unassignable and
non-transferable and shall not be subject to attachment or seizure for the payment of any debts, judgments or other obligations. No Plan interest shall be transferred by operation of law in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of a Participant,
Contingent Annuitant, or Beneficiary.      15.  NO CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT       Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between any UTC Company and the Participant. Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the
right to be retained in the service of a UTC Company for any length of time. Participants, Contingent Annuitants and Beneficiaries shall have no rights against any UTC Company resulting from participation in the Plan other than as specifically
provided herein.      16.  OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION       The Committee shall be solely responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan. The Committee shall have full and exclusive authority and discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to establish
such administrative procedures as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Plan. Any question of administration or interpretation arising under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee (or its delegate) in its full
discretion, and its decision shall be final and binding upon all parties.      Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or
ruling under the Plan, or requesting information under the Plan shall present the request in writing to the Committee at United Technologies Corporation, 1 Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: Deferred Compensation Committee. The
Committee shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.         
   P AGE  9   

17.  TAXES/WITHHOLDING       The Corporation shall have the right to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind required to be withheld from all deferrals and distributions under the Plan that the Corporation reasonably
determines to be required by law to be withheld from such deferrals and distributions.      18.  GOVERNING LAW       The provisions of the Plan will be construed and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Connecticut, to the extent not preempted by federal
law.      19.  AMENDMENT        The Corporation
may, at any time, amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided that no amendment may decrease the value of any Plan Accounts as of the date of such amendment. In the event of any change in law or regulation relating to the Plan and the tax treatment
of Plan Accounts, the Plan shall, without further action by the Committee, be deemed to be amended to comply with any such change in law or regulation effective as of the first date necessary to prevent the taxation, constructive receipt or deemed
distribution of Plan Accounts prior to the date Plan Accounts would be distributed under the provisions of Section 8.      20.  PLAN SUSPENSION AND
TERMINATION        (a) The Committee, may, at any time, suspend or terminate the Plan with respect to new or existing Election Forms if, in
its sole judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interest of the Corporation or for any other reason.         
   P AGE  10   

(b) In the event of the suspension of the Plan, no additional deferrals shall be made under the Plan, but
all previous deferrals shall accumulate and be distributed in accordance with the otherwise applicable provisions of the Plan and the applicable elections on file.      (c) Upon the termination of the Plan with respect to all Participants, and the termination of all arrangements sponsored by the Corporation or its affiliates that would be aggregated with the Plan under
Section 409A of the Code, the Corporation shall have the right, in its sole discretion, and notwithstanding any elections made by the Participant, to pay the Participant s Plan Account in a lump sum, to the extent permitted under
Section 409A. All payments that may be made pursuant to this Section 19 shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth month and no later than the twenty-fourth month after the termination of the Plan. The Corporation may not accelerate
payments pursuant to this Section 19 if the termination of the Plan is proximate to a downturn in the Corporation s financial health within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(C)(1). If the Corporation exercises its
discretion to accelerate payments under this Section 19, it shall not adopt any new arrangement that would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A within three years following the date of the Plan s termination.
     21.  COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A       To
the extent that rights or payments under this Plan are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan shall be construed and administered in compliance with the conditions of Section 409A and regulations and other guidance
issued pursuant to Section 409A for deferral of income taxation until the time the compensation is paid. Any distribution election that would not comply with Section 409A of the Code shall not be effective for purposes of this Plan. To the
extent  
       
   P AGE  11   

that a provision of this Plan does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be void and without effect. The Corporation does not
warrant that the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment. In no event shall UTC Company; any director, officer, or employee of a UTC Company (other than the Participant); or
any member of the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or as a result of the
Plan s failure to satisfy any other requirements of applicable tax laws.      22.  NO CONSENT REQUIRED        The consent of any Participant, Beneficiary, or other person shall not be required with respect to any amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan.
     23.  VALIDITY        If any provision of the
Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions of the Plan will be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.      24.  NOTICE        Any notice or filing required or
permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if sent by first-class mail, to the United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, 1 Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: Director,
Compensation, MS-504. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to any Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan  
       
   P AGE  12   

shall be sufficient if provided either electronically, hand-delivered, or mailed to the address (or email address, as the case may be) of the Participant or
Beneficiary then listed on the records of the Corporation. Any such notice will be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or email system.      25.  SUCCESSORS       The provisions of the Plan shall bind
and inure to the benefit of the Corporation, and its successors and assigns. The term successors shall include any corporate or other business entity that by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the
business and assets of the Corporation and successors of any such Corporation or other entity.      26.  BENEFIT CLAIMS PROCEDURE       A Participant or Beneficiary who believes that he or she has been denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (referred to in this
Section 26 as a  Claimant ) may file a written request with the Committee setting forth the claim. The Committee shall consider and resolve the claim as set forth below.      (a) Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee shall advise the Claimant that a response will be forthcoming within 90 days. The Committee may, however,
extend the response period for up to an additional 90 days for reasonable cause, and shall notify the Claimant of the reason for the extension and the expected response date. The Committee shall respond to the claim within the specified period.
     (b) If the claim is denied in whole or part, the Committee shall provide the Claimant with a written decision, using language calculated
to be understood by the Claimant, setting forth (1) the  
       
   P AGE  13   

specific reason or reasons for such denial; (2) the specific reference to relevant provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based; (3) a
description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation why such material or such information is necessary; (4) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the
Claimant wishes to submit the claim for review; (5) the time limits for requesting a review of the claim; and (6) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.      (c) Within 60 days after the Claimant s receipt of the written decision denying the claim in whole or in part, the Claimant may request in writing
that the Committee review the determination. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, review the relevant documents and submit issues and comment in writing for consideration by the Committee. If the Claimant does
not request a review of the initial determination within such 60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred from challenging the determination.      (d) Within 60 days after the Committee receives a request for review, it will review the initial determination. If special circumstances require that the 60-day time period be extended, the Committee will so notify the Claimant and will
render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review.      (e) All decisions on review
shall be final and binding with respect to all concerned parties. The decision on review shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, (1) the specific reasons for the decision, including references to the relevant
Plan provisions upon which the decision is based; (2) the Claimant s right to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information, relevant to his or her benefits; and
(3) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.         
   P AGE  14   

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.36>
 8
 dex1036.htm
 UTC LTIP PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT DEFERRAL PLAN

UTC LTIP Performance Share Unit Deferral Plan 

Exhibit 10.36        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        LTIP PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT DEFERRAL PLAN         ARTICLE I PREAMBLE        The United
Technologies Corporation LTIP Performance Share Unit Deferral Plan (the   Plan  ) was adopted pursuant to Section 13(f) of the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the   LTIP  ) approved
by the shareholders in April 2005. The purpose of this Plan is to provide eligible Participants with the opportunity to defer receipt of shares of Common Stock in respect of Performance Share Units ( PSUs ) awarded under the LTIP. In
addition to the terms and conditions set forth below, the Plan is subject to the provisions of the LTIP, which are incorporated herein by this reference.      This Plan incorporates the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. From January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2008, the Plan has been operated in good faith compliance with
Section 409A in accordance with guidance provided by the Internal Revenue Service.        ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS        Except as defined in this Article II, terms used in this Plan have the definitions of the terms as set forth in Section 2 of the LTIP:      a)  Beneficiary  means the person, persons or entity designated on an electronic or written form by the Participant to receive the value of his or
her Plan Account in the event of the Participant s death. If the Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary, or the Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant, the value of the Participant s Plan
Account will be paid to the estate of the Participant.         
   1   

b)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor
thereto. References to any section of the Internal Revenue Code shall include any final regulations or other published guidance interpreting that section.      c)  Committee  means the Committee on Compensation and Executive Development of the Corporation s Board of Directors, except to the extent that said Committee has delegated authority to administer this Plan
to the Corporation s Deferred Compensation Committee.      d)  Corporation  means United Technologies Corporation.      e)  Deferral Period  means the period designated (or deemed to be designated) by the Participant in accordance with this Plan that ends on the
Participant s Retirement Date or on a Specific Deferral Date.      f)  Deferred Share Units  means PSUs which have been deferred
pursuant to the terms of this Plan, and dividend equivalents that are credited and invested pursuant to Section 7.1.      g)  Default
Deferral Period  means the minimum Deferral Period of five (5) years following the date on which the Performance Cycle Account is established.      h)  Default Distribution  means payment in a lump sum distribution.      i)  Disability  means
permanent and total disability as determined under the Corporation s long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant, or if there is no such plan applicable to the Participant,  Disability  means a determination of total
disability by the Social Security Administration; provided that, in either case, the Participant s condition also qualifies as a  disability  for purposes of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code.         
   2   

j)  Distribution Date  means the date on which distributions commence following the Valuation Date.
     k)  Election Form  means the enrollment form provided to Participants electronically or in paper form for the purpose of deferring
PSUs under the Plan. Each Participant s Election Form must specify the percentage of the Award to be deferred with respect to the applicable Performance Cycle, the form of distribution elected, and the distribution start date ( see also 
Default Deferral Period and Default Distribution). There will be a separate Election Form for each Performance Cycle.      l)  Participant
 means an executive of a UTC Company who is paid from a U.S. payroll, files a U.S. income tax return, has been awarded PSUs and elects to defer a portion of such PSUs pursuant to the terms of this Plan.       m) Performance Cycle  means the three-year performance measurement period during which the pre-established performance targets are measured for
each PSU Award.         n)  Performance Cycle Account  means the account established for each Participant for each Performance Cycle
for which PSUs have been deferred under the Plan. The Performance Cycle Account shall be established on the date when the PSUs vest.      o)
 Plan  means the United Technologies Corporation LTIP Performance Share Unit Deferral Plan, as amended from time to time hereafter.         
   3   

p)  Plan Account  means the aggregate value of all Performance Cycle Accounts.      q)  Retirement  means Separation From Service on or after age 50 and attainment of age 65; Separation From Service on or after age 50 and attainment
of at least age 55 and a minimum of 10 or more years of  continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008); or a  Rule of 65  Termination.      r)  Retirement Date  means the date of a Participant s Retirement.      s)   Rule of 65  Termination  means Separation From Service on or after age 50 and before age 55, with a combination of age and years of
 continuous service  (as defined in the UTC Employee Retirement Plan as in effect on January 1, 2008) equal to at least 65.      t)  Separation from Service  means a Participant s Termination of Employment with all UTC Companies, other than by reason of death or Disability that qualifies as a  separation from service  for purposes of
Section 409A of the Code. A Separation from Service will be deemed to occur where the Participant and the UTC Company that employs the Participant reasonably anticipate that the bona fide level of services the Participant will perform (whether
as an employee or as an independent contractor) for UTC Companies will be permanently reduced to a level that is less than thirty-seven and a half percent (37.5%) of the average level of bona fide services the Participant performed during the
immediately preceding 36 months (or the entire period the Participant has provided services if the Participant has been providing services to UTC Companies for less than 36 months.) A Participant shall not be considered to have had a Separation from
Service as a result of a transfer from one UTC Company to another UTC Company.         
   4   

u)  Specific Deferral Date  means a specified date, not less than five (5) years following the
date on which the Performance Cycle Account is established.      v)  Specified
Employee  means each of the 50 highest-paid executives of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, effective annually as of March 31   st   , based
on annual salary and incentive compensation paid in the prior year. The term includes both U.S. and non-U.S. employees.      w)  Share 
means a share of UTC Common Stock.      x)  UTC Common Stock  means the common stock of United Technologies Corporation.      y)  UTC Company  means United Technologies Corporation or any entity controlled by or under common control with United Technologies Corporation
within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (but substituting  at least 20 percent  for  at least 80 percent  as the control threshold used in applying Sections 414(b) and (c)).      z)  Valuation Date  means the date on which Deferred Share Units included in a
Participant s Performance Cycle Account are valued prior to distribution. If the distribution is made because of the Participant s Separation from Service prior to attaining age 50, the Valuation Date for the lump sum distribution will be
the date of Separation from Service. If the distribution is made because of the Participant s Retirement, or attainment of Separation from Service after attaining age 50, and the distribution is a lump sum, the Valuation Date will be the date
of Separation from Service. If the distribution is made because of the Participant s Retirement, or attainment of Separation from Service after attaining age 50, and the distribution is installments, the Valuation Date will be the July 31
   st    following the Separation from Service Date and each subsequent July 31   st    thereafter for the remaining installments. If the distribution is made because the Deferral  
       
   5   

Period has ended on a Specific Deferral Date, the Valuation Date for the lump sum or initial installment distribution will be the July 31   st    following the Specific Deferral Date and each subsequent July 31   st    thereafter. If the distribution is made as a result of the death of the Participant, the Valuation Date will be the date of death. In the event that the New York Stock Exchange is closed on any of the foregoing days,
the Valuation Date will be the next business day.        ARTICLE III ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION         Section 3.1 Eligibility         Each employee of a UTC Company who is classified as an eligible Participant at the time of the deferral election will be eligible to participate in the Plan in respect of that Performance Cycle in accordance with the terms of the
Plan.          Section 3.2 Participation       Each eligible Participant may elect to participate in the Plan with respect to any Performance Cycle for which he/she receives an award of PSUs, and for which the opportunity to defer PSUs is offered, by timely filing
an Election Form, properly completed in accordance with Section 4.1. Participation in the Plan is entirely voluntary.         
   6   

ARTICLE IV PARTICIPANT ELECTIONS AND DESIGNATIONS         Section 4.1 Election       An
eligible Participant who has been awarded PSUs may, on or before the election deadline established by the Committee, make an electronic or written election on the Election Form provided by the Committee to defer the Participant s vested PSUs.
      Section 4.2 Election Amount       An eligible Participant must designate in the Election Form the percentage of vested PSUs (rounded down to the nearest whole share) that will be deferred under the Plan for the Performance Cycle. The minimum
percentage of vested PSUs that a Participant may defer under the Plan for any Performance Cycle is 10% and the maximum is 100%.       Section 4.3 Election Date       An electronic or written
Election Form must be completed and submitted to the Committee no later than the election deadline for that Performance Cycle. If the PSUs qualify as  performance-based compensation  for purposes of Section 409A of the Code when they
are awarded, the election deadline shall be no later than December 31   st    of the second year of the Performance Cycle, provided that the
compensation provided under the PSUs has not become reasonably ascertainable by the election deadline, and provided further that the Participant has performed services continuously from the beginning of the Performance Cycle (or, if later, the date
when the performance criteria were established if the award is made after the beginning of the Performance Cycle) until the election deadline. The Committee may specify an election  
       
   7   

deadline for any Performance Cycle that is earlier than the latest permissible deadline described in this paragraph, or may specify before the election
deadline that particular PSUs are not eligible for deferral. Except as provided below in Section 4.6 (Change in Election) and Section 7.2 (Unforeseeable Emergency), the choices reflected in the Participant s Election Form shall become
irrevocable on the election deadline (subject, however, to the provisions of the Plan that provide for non-elective payments in the event of death, change in control, small account balances, and other special circumstances). If an eligible executive
fails to submit a properly completed Election Form by the election deadline, the executive will be ineligible to participate in the Plan for the applicable Performance Cycle.       Section 4.4 Deferral Period       Each Participant shall specify in the Election Form the Deferral Period for amounts to be deferred. Failure to specify a deferral period shall result in a deferral for the Default Deferral Period. A Participant may elect a Deferral Period
that ends either (1) on a Specific Deferral Date that is at least five (5) years following the date on which the Performance Cycle Account is established (but not later than the Participant s 72nd birthday), or (2) on the
Participant s Retirement Date. If the Participant s 72nd birthday falls less than five (5) years after the date on which the Performance Cycle Account is established, the Participant s Deferral Period will end on the
Participant s Retirement Date.       Section 4.5 Distribution Election       At the time the Participant first elects to defer his or her vested PSUs under Section 4.1, the Participant must further make an election to have the
Performance Cycle Account distributed  
       
   8   

in a lump sum or in two to fifteen annual installments. If no distribution election is made, the Participant s Performance Cycle Account will be
distributed in a lump sum. If a Participant elects to receive the Performance Cycle Account in installments, the amount of each installment shall be determined by dividing the total Performance Cycle Account Balance on each Valuation Date by the
number of installments remaining, rounded down to the nearest whole share.       Section 4.6 Change in Election       A Participant who has made an election to defer PSUs under the Plan may make a one time irrevocable election to extend the Deferral Period and/or change
the form of distribution for a Performance Cycle Account. With respect to each Performance Cycle Account, the extended Deferral Period shall not be less than five (5) years following the date on which distribution would otherwise have occurred.
A deferral extension election and/or change to the form of distribution must meet all of the following requirements:       

i.  
  The new election must be made at least twelve months prior to the date on which payments will commence under the current election (and the new election shall be ineffective if the
payment commencement date under the current election occurs within twelve months after the date of the new election);         

ii.  
  The new election will not take effect until at least twelve months after the date when the new election is submitted in a manner acceptable to the Committee;
          
   9   

iii.  
  The new payment commencement date must be at least five years later than the date on which payments would commence under the current election; and         

iv.  
  In no case, may a Participant extend the Deferral Period beyond the Participant s 72nd birthday. If the Participant s 72nd birthday falls less than five (5) years
after the date on which payments would commence under the current election, the Participant is not eligible to extend his or her Deferral Period or to change the form of distribution.         Section 4.7 Designation of Beneficiary       Each Participant shall designate a Beneficiary for his or her Plan Account on an electronic or written form provided by the Committee. A Participant may change such designation on an electronic or written form acceptable to the Committee
and received by the Committee at any time before the Participant s death. In the event that no Beneficiary designation is filed with the Committee, or if the Beneficiary (and any contingent Beneficiary) does not survive the Participant, all
amounts deferred hereunder will be paid to the estate of the Participant. If a Participant designates the Participant s spouse as the Participant s Beneficiary, that designation shall not be revoked or otherwise altered or affected by any:
(a) change in the marital status of the Participant; (b) agreement between the Participant and such spouse; or (c) judicial decree (such as a divorce decree) affecting any rights that the Participant and such spouse might have as a
result of their marriage, separation, or divorce; it being the intent of the Plan that any change in the designation of a Beneficiary hereunder may be made by the Participant only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4.7.
In the event of the death of a Participant, distributions shall be made in accordance with Section 5.5.         
   10   

ARTICLE V VALUATION   DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS         Section 5.1 Valuation of Performance Cycle Accounts       Deferred Share Units included in a Participant s Performance Cycle Account are valued prior to distribution on the applicable Valuation Date as defined in this Plan. Except in the case of distributions made after
Deferred Share Units have been converted to cash as a result of a Committee action upon a Change of Control, one share of UTC Common Stock will be distributed for each Deferred Share Unit. If the distribution includes a fractional Unit, the
number of Units will be rounded down to the next whole Unit for purposes of calculating the number of shares of Stock to be exchanged in the distribution, and the value of the fractional Unit will be paid in cash. See Section 7.3 of this Plan
regarding satisfaction of Participant s withholding tax obligation. The Deferred Share Unit shall be valued based on the closing price of UTC Common Stock as reported on the composite tape of the New York Stock Exchange on the Valuation Date,
or if the Stock is not traded on that day, on the next trading day.       Section 5.2 Timing of Plan Distributions    
  Except as provided in Section 4.6 (concerning the five-year delay following a Change in Election), Section 5.3 (concerning Separation from
Service before Attaining Age Fifty), and Section 5.4 (concerning distributions to Specified Employees), the value of a Participant s  
       
   11   

Performance Cycle Account will be distributed (or begin to be distributed) according to the distribution election on file to the Participant as of the first
business day following the Valuation Date associated with (1) the Participant s Retirement (if the Participant s Deferral Period ends on the Retirement Date) or (2) the Specific Deferral Period (if the Participant s Deferral
Period ends on a Specific Deferral Date).       Section 5.3 Separation from Service before Attaining Age 50.      If a Participant s Separation From Service occurs before the Participant attains age fifty (50), the full value of Participant s entire Plan
Account will be distributed in a lump sum on the first business day following a Participant s Separation From Service (or, if the Participant is a Specified Employee at the time of his or her Separation from Service, on the date provided in
Section 5.4, below) regardless of the distribution election on file.      Section 5.4 Separation from Service of Specified
Employees       If the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of the Participant s Separation from Service, any distribution of
the Participant s Plan Account that is made on account of the Participant s Retirement or other Separation from Service will not be made or commence earlier than the first day of the seventh month following the date of Retirement or
Separation from Service. The Plan Account shall be valued as if the Valuation Date were the last business day of the month preceding the distribution date.         
   12   

Section 5.5 Death       In the event of the death of a Participant, the full value of the Participant s Plan Account will be distributed to the designated Beneficiary in a
lump sum on the first business day of the month following the Participant s death.       Section 5.6 Disability
      In the event of the Disability of a Participant, the Participant s Performance Cycle Accounts that are designated to be deferred
to a Specific Deferral Date will be maintained and distributed in accordance with the Participant s elections on file. The Participant s Performance Cycle Accounts that are designated to be deferred to the Participant s Retirement
Date will be distributed as if the Participant had retired on the date of the Participant s Disability, but without applying the six-month delay in Section 5.4, above.       Section 5.7 Distribution upon a Change in Control       In the event of a Change in Control or restructuring of the Corporation, the Participant s entire Plan Account will be converted to cash and distributed in a lump sum on the first business day following the
Change in Control event. The cash amount per Unit will equal the closing price of UTC Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date the Change in Control occurs or, if the Stock is not traded on that day, on the trading day immediately
preceding the Change in Control. For purposes of the Plan, a  Change in Control  means (i) the acquisition by one person, or more than one person acting as a group, of stock possessing 30 percent or more of the total voting power of
the stock of the United Technologies Corporation during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition; (ii) the  
       
   13   

replacement of a majority of members of United Technologies Corporation s board of directors during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment
or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of United Technologies Corporation s board of directors as constituted immediately prior to the date of such appointment or election; (iii) the acquisition by one person, or more
than one person acting as a group, of more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of United Technologies Corporation; (iv) a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Corporation s assets
such that one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires assets of the Corporation with a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40 percent of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Corporation
determined immediately prior to such acquisition; (v) a dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation.       Section 5.8 Accelerated Distribution in the Case of an Unforeseeable Emergency       (a)  Unforeseeable
Emergency . The Committee may, upon a Participant s written application, agree to an accelerated distribution of some or all of the value of Participant s Plan Accounts upon the showing of an unforeseeable emergency. An
 unforeseeable emergency  is a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from (1) an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s Beneficiary, or the Participant s
dependent (as defined in IRC Section 152, without regard to Section 152(b)(1), (b)(2), and (d)(1)(B)); (2) loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or (3) other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable
circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant. Whether a Participant is faced with an unforeseeable emergency permitting a distribution is to be determined based on the relevant facts and circumstances of each
case. Acceleration will not be  
       
   14   

granted if the emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s
assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.      (b)  Amount of Distribution Permitted upon an Unforeseeable Emergency . Distributions on account of an unforeseeable emergency, as defined in Section 5.8(a), shall be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the
emergency need. Such amount may include amounts necessary to pay any Federal, state, local, or foreign income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution.      (c) The Committee will determine from which Performance Cycle Accounts hardship distributions will be made. Any Participant who is an officer or director
of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is not eligible for distributions on account of unforeseeable emergency.       Section 5.9 Administrative Adjustments in Payment       A payment under this Section 5.9 is
treated as being made on the date when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made on the due date specified by the Plan, or on a later date that is either (a) in the same calendar year (for a payment whose specified due date is on or
before September 30), or (b) by the 15th day of the third calendar month following the date specified by the Plan (for a payment whose specified due date is on or after October 1). A payment also is treated as being made on the date
when it is due under the Plan if the payment is made not more than 30 days before the due date specified by the Plan. In no event will a  
       
   15   

payment to a Specified Employee be made or commence earlier than the first day of the seventh month following the date of Separation from Service. A
Participant may not, directly or indirectly, designate the taxable year of a payment made in reliance on the administrative rules in this Section 5.9.       Section 5.10 Minimum Balance Payout Provision       If a Participant s Plan Account balance
under this Plan (and under all other nonqualified deferred compensation plans of the Corporation that are required to be aggregated with this Plan under Section 409A of the Code), determined at the time of the Participant s Separation From
Service, is less than the amount set as the limit on elective deferrals under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code in effect for the year in which the Participant s Separation From Service occurs, the Committee retains discretion to distribute
the Participant s entire Plan Account (and the Participant s entire interest in any other nonqualified deferred compensation plan that is required to be aggregated with this Plan) in a lump sum on the first business day following the
Participant s Separation From Service, even if the Participant has elected to receive a different form of distribution.        ARTICLE
VI AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN         Section 6.1 Amendment       The Corporation may, at any time, amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided that no amendment may decrease the value of any Plan Accounts as of the
date of such amendment. In  
       
   16   

the event of any change in law or regulation relating to the Plan and the tax treatment of Plan Accounts, the Plan shall, without further action by the
Committee, be deemed to be amended to comply with any such change in law or regulation effective the first date necessary to prevent the taxation, constructive receipt or deemed distribution of Plan Accounts prior to the date Plan Accounts would be
distributed under the provisions of Article V.       Section 6.2 Plan Suspension and Termination       (a) The Corporation s Pension Administration Committee, may, at any time, suspend or terminate the Plan with respect to new or existing Election
Forms if, in its sole judgment, the continuance of the Plan, the tax, accounting, or other effects thereof, or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interest of the Corporation or for any other reason.      (b) In the event of suspension of the Plan, no additional deferrals shall be made under the Plan, but all previous deferrals shall accumulate and be
distributed in accordance with the otherwise applicable provisions of the Plan and the applicable elections on file.      (c) Upon the
termination of the Plan with respect to all Participants, and the termination of all arrangements sponsored by the Corporation that would be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A, , the Corporation shall have the right, in its sole
discretion, and notwithstanding any elections made by the Participant, to pay the Participant s Plan Account in a lump sum, to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code. All payments that may be made pursuant to this
Section 6.2 shall be made no earlier than the thirteenth month and no later than the twenty-fourth month after the termination of the Plan. The Corporation may not accelerate payments pursuant to this Section 6.2 if the termination of the
Plan is proximate to a downturn in  
       
   17   

the Corporation s financial health within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(C)(1). If the Corporation exercises its discretion to
accelerate payments under this Section 6.2, it shall not adopt any new arrangement that would have been aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A of the Code within three years following the date of the Plan s termination.
      Section 6.3 No Consent Required       The consent of any Participant, Beneficiary, or other person shall not be required with respect to any amendment, suspension, or termination of the Plan.        ARTICLE VII MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS         Section 7.1 Reinvestment of Dividend
Equivalents       Deferred Share Units shall be credited with dividend equivalents at the same time and in the same amount that cash
dividends would be paid with respect to an equal number of shares of UTC Common Stock. At the time the election under Section 4.1 is made, the Participant agrees to have dividend equivalents deferred and invested in additional Deferred Share
Units based upon the number of whole and fractional Units which the dollar dividend amount would purchase, using the closing price of UTC Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on each dividend payment date. Dividend equivalents that are
deferred and invested pursuant to this Section 7.1 shall be credited to the same Performance Cycle Account as the Deferred Share Units for which the dividend equivalents are paid, and shall be distributed at the time and in the form applicable
to that Performance Cycle Account.         
   18   

Section 7.2 Required Taxes       No later than the date Deferred Share Units are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, as time to
time amended) or first become includible in gross income, Participant must pay to the Corporation, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation regarding the payment of, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind required to be
withheld with respect to such amount. Unless otherwise determined by the Corporation, withholding obligations may be settled with UTC Common Stock (including UTC Common Stock that is distributed under the terms of the Plan) or with Deferred Share
Units that are deducted from the Participant s Plan Account under the Plan; provided, however, that not more than the legally required minimum withholding may be settled with Deferred Share Units or UTC Common Stock. The obligations of the
Corporation under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangement, and the Corporation shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to make any appropriate arrangements to deduct any such taxes from all deferrals and
distribution under the Plan that the Corporation reasonably determines to be required by law to be withheld from such deferrals and distributions.      Section 7.3 Adjustment of Deferred Share Units       In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock, by reason of
a stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change, the number of Deferred Share Units may be adjusted appropriately by the Committee, whose determination shall be
conclusive.         
   19   

Section 7.4 Section 409A Compliance       To the extent that rights or payments under this Plan are subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan shall be construed and
administered in compliance with the conditions of Section 409A and regulations and other guidance issued pursuant to Section 409A for deferral of income taxation until the time the compensation is paid. Any distribution election that would
not comply with Section 409A of the Code shall not be effective for purposes of this Plan. To the extent that a provision of this Plan does not comply with Section 409A of the Code, such provision shall be void and without effect. The
Corporation does not warrant that the Plan will comply with Section 409A of the Code with respect to any Participant or with respect to any payment. In no event shall any UTC Company; any director, officer, or employee of a UTC Company (other
than the Participant); or any member of the Committee be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code, or as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other requirements of applicable tax laws.        ARTICLE VIII GENERAL PROVISIONS
        Section 8.1 Unsecured General Creditor       The Corporation s obligations under the Plan constitute an unfunded and unsecured promise to distribute shares in the future. Participants  and
Beneficiaries  rights under the Plan  
       
   20   

are solely those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No assets will be placed in trust, set aside or otherwise segregated to fund or offset
liabilities in respect of the Plan or Participants  Plan Accounts.       Section 8.2 Nonassignability       No Participant or Beneficiary or any other person shall have right to sell, assign, transfer, pledge, or otherwise encumber any interest in the Plan. All
Plan Accounts and the rights to all distributions are unassignable and non-transferable. Plan Accounts or distributions hereunder, prior to actual distribution, will not be subject to attachment or seizure for the payment of any debts, judgments or
other obligations. Plan Accounts or other Plan benefit will not be transferred by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any Beneficiary s bankruptcy or insolvency.       Section 8.3 No Contract of Employment       Participation in the Plan shall not be construed to constitute a direct or indirect contract of employment between any UTC Company and the Participant. Participants and Beneficiaries will have no rights against any
UTC Company resulting from participation in the Plan other than as specifically provided herein. Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of any UTC Company for any length of time or to
interfere with the right of any UTC Company to terminate a Participant s employment prior to the end of any Deferral Period.       Section 8.4 Governing Law       The provisions of the Plan will be construed and interpreted according to the laws of
the State of Connecticut, to the extent not preempted by federal law.         
   21   

Section 8.5 Validity       If any provision of the Plan is held to be illegal or invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions of the Plan will be construed and enforced as if
such illegal and invalid provision had never been inserted herein.       Section 8.6 Notice       Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient if sent by first-class mail, to the United
Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Committee, 1 Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: Director, Compensation, MS-504. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to any Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan
shall be sufficient if provided either electronically, hand-delivered, or mailed to the address (or email address, as the case may be) of the Participant or Beneficiary then listed on the records of the Corporation. Any such notice will be deemed
given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or email system.       Section 8.7 Successors       The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Corporation and its
successors and assigns. The term successors as used herein shall include any corporate or other business entity, which by merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise acquires all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Corporation,
and successors of any such corporation or other business entity.         
   22   

Section 8.8 Incompetence       If the Committee determines, upon evidence satisfactory to the Committee, that any Participant or Beneficiary to whom a benefit is payable under the Plan
is unable to care for their affairs because of illness or accident, any payment due (unless prior claim therefore shall have been made by a duly authorized guardian or other legal representative) may be paid, upon appropriate indemnification of the
Committee and the Corporation, to the spouse of the Participant or other person deemed by the Committee to have incurred expenses for the benefit of and on behalf of such Participant or Beneficiary. Any such payment from a Participant s Plan
Accounts shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan with respect to the amount so paid.        ARTICLE IX ADMINISTRATION AND CLAIMS
        Section 9.1 Plan Administration       The Committee shall be solely responsible for the administration and operation of the Plan. The Committee shall have full and exclusive authority and discretion to interpret the provisions of the Plan and to establish
such administrative procedures as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Plan.      Any person claiming a benefit,
requesting an interpretation or ruling under the Plan, or requesting information under the Plan shall present the request in writing to the Committee at United Technologies Corporation, 1 Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut 06101, Attn: Deferred
Compensation Committee. The Committee shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.         
   23   

Section 9.2 Claim Procedures       A Participant or Beneficiary who believes that he or she has been denied a benefit to which he or she is entitled under the Plan (referred to in this
Section 9.2 as a  Claimant ) may file a written request with the Committee setting forth the claim. The Committee shall consider and resolve the claim as set forth below.      (a) Upon receipt of a claim, the Committee shall advise the Claimant that a response will be forthcoming within 90 days. The Committee may, however,
extend the response period for up to an additional 90 days for reasonable cause, and shall notify the Claimant of the reason for the extension and the expected response date. The Committee shall respond to the claim within the specified period.
     (b) If the claim is denied in whole or part, the Committee shall provide the Claimant with a written decision, using language calculated
to be understood by the Claimant, setting forth (1) the specific reason or reasons for such denial; (2) the specific reference to relevant provisions of this Plan on which such denial is based; (3) a description of any additional
material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his or her claim and an explanation why such material or such information is necessary; (4) appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the Claimant wishes to submit the
claim for review; (5) the time limits for requesting a review of the claim; and (6) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.         
   24   

(c) Within 60 days after the Claimant s receipt of the written decision denying the claim in whole
or in part, the Claimant may request in writing that the Committee review the determination. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may, but need not, review the relevant documents and submit issues and comment in writing for
consideration by the Committee. If the Claimant does not request a review of the initial determination within such 60-day period, the Claimant shall be barred from challenging the determination.      (d) Within 60 days after the Committee receives a request for review, it will review the initial determination. If special circumstances require that the
60-day time period be extended, the Committee will so notify the Claimant and will render the decision as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review.      (e) All decisions on review shall be final and binding with respect to all concerned parties. The decision on review shall set forth, in a manner
calculated to be understood by the Claimant, (1) the specific reasons for the decision, including references to the relevant Plan provisions upon which the decision is based; (2) the Claimant s right to receive, upon request and free
of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information, relevant to his or her benefits; and (3) the Claimant s right to bring an action for benefits under Section 502(a) of ERISA.         
   25   

</EX-10.36>

<EX-11>
 9
 dex11.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATIONS OF PER SHARE EARNINGS

Statement Re: Computations of Per Share Earnings 

Exhibit 11        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        AND SUBSIDIARIES        STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS        

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 10
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Statement Re: Computation of Ratios 

Exhibit 12        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        AND SUBSIDIARIES        STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        

2      
    Reasonable approximation of the interest factor.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 11
 dex13.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 

Exhibit 13    
   Five-Year Summary        

During 2005, we acquired Kidde, which in conjunction with Chubb (acquired during 2003) forms the UTC Fire   Security segment.     

During 2005, a 2-for-1 split of our common stock was effected in the form of a share dividend. All common share and per share amounts for periods prior to the split have been
adjusted to reflect the split.     

Note 1  
  During 2005, we adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations (an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143)  (FIN 47) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123R,  Share-Based Payment.      

Note 2  
  Excludes dividends paid on Employee Stock Ownership Plan common stock.     

Note 3  
  During 2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of SFAS
Nos. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R),  (SFAS 158) which resulted in an approximately $1.8 billion non-cash charge to equity and a $2.4 billion non-cash reduction to total assets. In addition, we early-adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158
effective January 1, 2007, which increased shareowners  equity by approximately $425 million and decreased long-term liabilities by approximately $620 million.     

Note 4  
  The increase in the 2008 debt to total capitalization ratio reflects unrealized losses of approximately $4.2 billion, net of taxes, associated with the effect of market conditions
on our pension plans, and the 2008 debt issuances totaling $2.25 billion.           

1   

Management s Discussion and Analysis             Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations        Business Overview       We are a global provider of high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries. Our operations are classified into six principal business segments: Otis, Carrier, UTC
Fire   Security, Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky. Otis, Carrier and UTC Fire   Security are collectively referred to as the  commercial businesses,  while Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton
Sundstrand and Sikorsky are collectively referred to as the  aerospace businesses.  The commercial businesses generally serve customers in the worldwide commercial and residential property industries, although Carrier also serves customers
in the commercial and transport refrigeration industries. The aerospace businesses serve commercial and government aerospace customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets. In addition, a portion of these
businesses serve customers in certain industrial markets. Our consolidated revenues were derived from the commercial and aerospace businesses as follows (revenues from Hamilton Sundstrand s and Pratt   Whitney s industrial markets
are included in  commercial and industrial ):       
    In both 2008 and 2007, approximately 60% of our consolidated sales were original equipment and 40% were aftermarket
parts and services, while in 2006 the amounts were 59% and 41%, respectively.      Our strategy has been, and continues to be, the maintenance of balance
across our businesses in order to limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results. This balance is managed, in part, through the commercial and aerospace revenue, and original equipment
and aftermarket parts and services splits noted above, and the combination of shorter cycles in our commercial businesses, particularly Carrier, and longer cycles in our aerospace businesses, as well as through the geographic diversity that has
evolved with the continued globalization of world economies. The   
   
 composition of total revenues from outside the United States, including U.S. export sales, in dollars and as a percentage of total segment revenues, has been
as follows:       
    As part of our growth strategy, we invest in businesses in certain countries that carry high levels of currency,
political and/or economic risk, such as Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Russia and South Africa. At December 31, 2008, our investment in any one of these countries did not exceed 4% of consolidated shareowners  equity.      Despite an increasingly difficult economic environment in 2008, total revenues increased 7% year-over-year, as compared with 2007. Extreme volatility and financial
market disruption in the United States, Europe and Asia, continuing airline financial distress, moderating commercial construction activity and depressed conditions in the domestic and certain international housing markets all contributed to
weakening worldwide economic conditions. As discussed further below, some of these factors have adversely impacted aspects of our underlying businesses and are continuing to present operational challenges. Conversely, other market factors remained
generally strong throughout 2008, and our businesses have continued to improve upon their operational performance.      Weakness in the U.S. residential
market, as well as a second half slowdown in both global non-residential construction activity and the commercial aerospace market, created challenging business conditions in 2008 that are expected to continue through 2009. As a result of the
current economic conditions, organic revenue growth was 5% in 2008 compared with the 9% realized in both 2007 and 2006. Although lower than in 2007, the growth rate in 2008 was still well in excess of general economic growth levels reflecting the
global infrastructure investments that have benefited our commercial businesses, and the strong opening order backlogs entering 2008. However, as the second half of 2008 progressed, we experienced a decline in order rates in the commercial
businesses, predominately at the end of the year.   

2   

On a global basis, Otis  new equipment orders were up 8% and Carrier s commercial heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) new equipment
orders grew approximately 9% in 2008, as compared with 2007. These growth rates reflect increases for most of the year partially offset by declines in the fourth quarter. Although commercial HVAC revenue grew in 2008, commercial refrigeration
revenues declined as a result of the current economic conditions. As with the prior year, the weakness in the U.S. residential market continued to affect Carrier s North American residential business where unit shipments declined 7%, however
the broader market declined further. UTC Fire   Security experienced 3% organic revenue growth in 2008 with strength in the fire safety businesses being partially offset by the adverse impact of the U.S. and international banking industry
downturn on its electronic security businesses. The growth in the fire safety businesses resulted largely from increased activity in the oil   gas and marine industries as well as growth in Asia.      Although the price of oil has retreated significantly from record prices experienced early in 2008, the commercial aerospace industry continues to engage in capacity
reductions and airline carrier consolidations to help offset the significant decline in passenger and cargo traffic levels experienced across the industry in 2008. Worldwide revenue passenger miles (RPMs) were essentially flat in 2008 as compared to
2007, and lower than initially expected as a result of the worldwide economic slowdown. Consistent with expectations, we saw a leveling off of Pratt   Whitney s commercial aerospace aftermarket business in 2008 compared to 2007, which
reflected sales growth in the first half of the year offset by declines in the second half of 2008. However, also consistent with expectations, we experienced growth in the commercial aerospace original equipment manufacturer (OEM) markets at both
Pratt   Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand, as well as continued strong demand for military helicopters at Sikorsky.      With the increasingly tough
economic environment, we expect revenues to decline in 2009 to approximately $57 billion reflecting lower organic growth levels and a significant unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation due to the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar
as compared with currencies such as the Euro. Although the disruption in the financial markets did not have a significant impact on our results in 2008, it continues to present a risk as we enter 2009. In addition to managing any potential impact to
our financial results, we continue to monitor and address the potential impact to our customers and suppliers, which to date has been limited.      The
increase in revenue in 2008 was accompanied by improvements in operational efficiencies, including savings from previously initiated restructuring actions, the benefit of cost containment efforts and the favorable impact of foreign currency
translation. These operating profit improvements were partially offset by the adverse impact of higher restructuring charges, research and development spending and commodity costs, to generate a net 8%   
   
 increase in operating profit in 2008, as compared with 2007. Although commodity prices declined in the second half of 2008, we still experienced overall cost
increases for the year, in part due to certain existing long-term supplier agreements. After partial recovery through pricing, the net adverse impact to earnings of higher commodity costs in 2008 was approximately $115 million. As a result of the
recent declines in commodity pricing, we are now expecting the lower costs to provide a benefit to operating results in 2009 of about $150 million.      To
help generate future margin growth, and in anticipation of a difficult economic environment in 2009, we invested $357 million in restructuring actions across our businesses in 2008. While restructuring efforts have been undertaken across the
company, the majority of the charges were incurred at Carrier and Pratt   Whitney as we focus on lowering our overall cost structure.      In 2008,
operating profit benefited from various gains related to business divestiture activity during the year ($129 million), the sale of marketable securities ($38 million) and a favorable pre-tax interest adjustment ($12 million) as discussed below in
 Results of Operations.  Operating profit for 2007 was adversely impacted by a civil fine, net of existing reserves, of $216 million levied against Otis. The European Commission s Competition Directorate assessed a civil fine of
approximately $300 million (EU Fine) against Otis, its relevant local entities and UTC, as a result of certain Otis subsidiaries in Europe violating European Union competition rules. Gains from the sale of marketable securities and certain non-core
assets and lower restructuring charges in 2007 helped to offset the adverse impact of this fine, as discussed further in  Results of Operations.       In addition to the earnings generated from organic revenue growth, including the growth from new product development and product improvements, our earnings growth strategy also contemplates investments in acquisitions. We invested $1.4
billion and $2.3 billion, including debt assumed of $196 million and $300 million, in the acquisition of businesses across all of our operations in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Acquisitions in 2008 consisted principally of a number of small
acquisitions in our commercial businesses. Acquisitions in 2007 consisted principally of investments in the UTC Fire   Security segment including the acquisitions of Initial Electronic Security Group (IESG) for approximately $1.2 billion
and Marioff Corporation, Oy (Marioff) for approximately $348 million. The remaining investments in 2007 included a number of smaller acquisitions across our businesses.      For additional discussion of acquisitions and restructuring, see  Liquidity and Financing Commitments,   Restructuring and Other Costs  and Notes 2 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

3   

Results of Operations        Revenues        
    All segments, except for Carrier, experienced organic revenue growth in 2008. Organic growth was led by the
aerospace businesses which benefited from the general strength of the commercial aerospace OEM, regional and business jet markets, and demand for military helicopters. Commercial aerospace aftermarket growth rates have moderated due to declines in
large commercial spares orders resulting from the airlines  consolidation and continued reductions of capacity in response to market conditions. Commercial OEM growth reflected strong production levels at the airframe manufacturers, while
military OEM revenue growth was driven largely by government demand for military helicopters. In the commercial businesses, revenue growth at Otis reflected increases in Europe and North America, led by new equipment sales generated from the strong
backlog entering the year. At Carrier, significantly lower unit shipments of U.S. residential product due to the continued weakness in the North American residential market, and lower customer demand for commercial refrigeration products as a result
of weak economic conditions contributed to a decline in organic revenues. UTC Fire   Security revenues increased largely on the strength of fire safety sales in the oil   gas and marine industries as well as growth in Asia. The
consolidated revenue increase of $3.9 billion or 7% in 2008 also included growth from net acquisitions of 1% and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation of 1% resulting from the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies,
particularly the Euro, experienced for most of 2008.      The consolidated revenue increase of 14% in 2007 reflected organic growth of 9%, acquisition growth
of 2% and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation of 3% resulting from the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies including the Euro and the Pound Sterling. All segments experienced organic sales growth in 2007, led by
the aerospace businesses, which benefited from the general strength of the commercial aerospace markets, overall helicopter demand, and the absence of the impact of the 2006 Sikorsky strike. Commercial aerospace aftermarket growth rates were
significantly in excess of general industry growth levels while military OEM revenue growth was driven by government demand for military helicopters. The commercial businesses benefited from generally favorable worldwide economic conditions
throughout most of 2007. Otis  growth included increases in all geographic regions, led by new equipment sales as a result of the strong backlog entering the year and continued order strength throughout 2007. Carrier s revenues increased
as a result of   
   
 generally strong international residential and commercial HVAC markets, partially offset by significantly lower unit shipments of U.S. residential product
due to the weakness in the North American residential market.      The decrease in other income in 2008, as compared with 2007, is largely related to the
absence of certain gains reflected in 2007 as further described below. Other income in 2008 includes gains generated during the year from business divestiture activity, including a $67 million gain at Carrier from the contribution of a business into
a new venture operating in the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States, an approximately $37 million non-cash gain recognized on the sale of a partial investment at Pratt   Whitney and a gain of approximately $25 million
related to a disposal of a business at Hamilton Sundstrand. Also, other income in 2008 reflects a $38 million gain from the sale of marketable securities and an approximately $12 million favorable pre-tax interest adjustment related to the
settlement of disputed adjustments from the 2000 through 2003 examination with the Appeals Division of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). These gains were partially offset by the adverse impact of increased hedging costs on our cash management
activities of approximately $80 million. The balance of other income is comprised of interest and joint venture income, royalties, and other miscellaneous operating activities.      Other income for 2007 included approximately $150 million in gains resulting from the sale of marketable securities, an approximately $80 million gain recognized on the sale of land by Otis, gains of approximately $83
million on the disposal of certain non-core businesses, and approximately $28 million in pre-tax interest income relating to a re-evaluation of our tax liabilities and contingencies based on global tax examination activity during 2007, including
completion of our review of the 2000 through 2003 IRS audit report and our related protest filing. Remaining activity includes interest and joint venture income, royalties and other miscellaneous operating activities.       Gross Margin        
    The improvement in gross margin (product and service sales less the cost of product and services sold) of 70 basis
points in 2008, as a percentage of sales, is due largely to the benefit from higher volumes, savings from previously initiated restructuring actions and net operational efficiencies (approximately 60 basis points combined). The absence of the 2007
EU Fine, net of reserves (approximately 40 basis points) was partially offset by the adverse impact  

4   

of higher commodity costs, net of pricing (approximately 20 basis points) and increased restructuring costs (approximately 10 basis points) contributing to
the remainder of the year-over-year change.      In 2007, the gross margin decline as a percentage of sales compared with 2006, was primarily the result of the
adverse impact of the EU Fine, net of existing reserves, of approximately $216 million (approximately 40 basis points), the absence of an approximately $80 million benefit (approximately 20 basis points) from a reserve reversal associated with the
2006 settlement of a Department of Defense collaboration accounting claim against Pratt   Whitney, and higher commodity costs in 2007. After partial recovery through pricing, the net adverse impact to earnings of higher commodity costs in
2007 was approximately $290 million (approximately 50 basis points). All of these adverse impacts were partially offset by lower restructuring charges in 2007 (approximately 20 basis points), higher volumes, the impact of acquisitions, savings from
previously initiated restructuring actions, net operational efficiencies and the favorability of foreign exchange translation.       Research and Development
       
    The increase in company-funded research and development in 2008, compared with 2007, was led by continued
investments in Pratt   Whitney s next generation product family including the PurePower PW1000G (PurePower) engine, which features Geared Turbofan (GTF) technology. General increases across the businesses comprised the remainder
of the year-over-year increase. The approximately 10% increase in company-funded research and development in 2007, as compared with 2006, was driven largely by continued efforts on the Boeing 787 program at Hamilton Sundstrand (4%) and
Pratt   Whitney s next generation product family (3%). Increases in company-funded research and development costs at Hamilton Sundstrand on the Boeing 787 program in 2007 were primarily the result of 787 aircraft program delays.
Company-funded research and development spending is subject to the variable nature of program development schedules.      The increase in customer-funded
research and development spending in 2008, as compared with 2007, relates largely to increased engineering effort in the J-2X propulsion program at Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne as well as various space programs at Hamilton Sundstrand, while

development spending on the Joint Strike Fighter program across the company decreased. The 2007 increase in customer-funded research and development, as
compared with 2006, is primarily attributable to increased spending at Sikorsky on the CH-53K program.      Company-funded research and development spending
for 2009 is expected to be consistent with 2008 spending levels.       Selling, General and Administrative        
    Increases in selling, general and administrative expenses in both 2008 and 2007 were due primarily to general
increases across the businesses in support of higher volumes and the adverse impact of foreign currency translation. The increase in 2008 was further impacted by the effect of increased restructuring charges undertaken in anticipation of a tougher
economic climate in 2009, resulting in a 30 basis point increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales from 2007 to 2008. Strong control of spending in 2007, coupled with the significant growth in revenues, led to
a 30 basis point reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales from 2006 to 2007.       Interest Expense    
   
    Interest expense increased in 2008, as compared with 2007, primarily as a result of the issuances of $1.0 billion
of long-term debt in December 2007, bearing interest at 5.375%, and $1.0 billion of long-term debt in May 2008, bearing interest at 6.125%. This increase was partially offset by lower interest charges related to our deferred compensation plan and
lower interest accrued on unrecognized tax benefits. The issuance of $1.25 billion of long-term debt in December 2008 bearing interest at 6.125% did not have a significant impact to interest expense in 2008. Interest expense increased in 2007
primarily as a result of the full year impact of the issuance of $1.1 billion of long-term debt in May 2006, an increase in short-term borrowings to fund acquisition activity, and interest accrued on unrecognized tax benefits.  

5   

The issuance of $1.0 billion of long-term debt in December 2007 did not have a significant impact to interest expense in 2007.      The average interest rate for commercial paper decreased in 2008 as compared to 2007 generating the decrease in the average short-term borrowing rate. The overall
average interest rate declined as the long-term debt issuances noted above were at interest rates lower than existing outstanding obligations. The weighted-average interest rate applicable to debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 was 5.3% for
short-term borrowings and 5.9% for total debt as compared to 7.2% and 6.2%, respectively, at December 31, 2007. The decrease in the average interest rate on total debt in 2007, as compared to 2006, corresponded to the full year impact of the
May 2006 long-term debt issuances which bear interest at 6.05% and LIBOR + .07%. The three month LIBOR rate as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was 1.4%, 4.7% and 5.4%, respectively.       Income Taxes        
    The effective tax rates for 2008, 2007 and 2006 reflect tax benefits associated with lower tax rates on
international earnings, which we intend to permanently reinvest outside the United States. The 2008 effective tax rate decreased as compared to 2007 due to the absence of certain discrete items which had a net adverse impact in 2007. The 2008
effective tax rate reflects approximately $62 million of tax expense reductions, principally relating to re-evaluation of our liabilities and contingencies based upon resolution of disputed tax matters with the Appeals Division of the IRS for tax
years 2000 through 2003.      The 2007 effective tax rate reflects approximately $80 million of tax expense reductions, principally relating to re-evaluation
of our liabilities and contingencies based upon global examination activity, including the IRS s completion of 2000 through 2003 examination fieldwork and our related protest filing, and development of claims for research and development tax
credits. Principal adverse tax impacts to the 2007 effective tax rate related to the previously disclosed EU Fine and enacted tax law changes outside the United States.      In 2006, a residual disputed issue related to the 1999 disposition of a business segment was settled with the Appeals Division of the IRS and was reviewed by the U.S. Congress Joint Committee on Taxation. The
settlement resulted in an approximately $35 million reduction in tax expense in 2006.      We expect our effective income tax rate in 2009 to be approximately
28%, before the impacts of any discrete events.         
 
  For additional discussion of income taxes, see  Critical Accounting Estimates Income Taxes  and Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
      Net Income and Earnings Per Share        
    The general weakness of the U.S. dollar against certain currencies, such as the Euro, for the majority of the year,
generated a beneficial year-over-year foreign currency impact of $.06 per share in 2008. This year-over-year impact is net of the adverse impacts of both foreign currency translation and hedging at Pratt   Whitney Canada (P WC) of a
combined $.05 per share. At P WC, the strength of the U.S. dollar in the fourth quarter of 2008 partially offset the adverse foreign currency translation impact experienced earlier in the year from a weaker U.S. dollar as the majority of
P WC s revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of its costs are incurred in local currencies. To help mitigate the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates on our operating results, we maintain foreign
currency hedging programs, the majority of which are entered into by P WC. Due to the significant revenue growth at P WC, as well as the dramatic increase in the strength of the Canadian dollar to the U.S. dollar in 2007 and early 2008, the
hedges previously entered into generated an adverse foreign exchange impact as the U.S. dollar strengthened. As a result of hedging programs currently in place, P WC s 2009 operating results will include the adverse impact of foreign
currency translation, net of hedging, of approximately $100 million. In 2007 and 2006, foreign currency translation had a favorable impact of $.09 and $.01 per share, respectively. For additional discussion of foreign currency exposure, see
 Market Risk and Risk Management Foreign Currency Exposures.  Diluted earnings per share for 2008 were also favorably impacted by approximately $.11 per share as a result of the shares repurchased since January 1, 2008 under our
share repurchase program.   

6   

Restructuring and Other Costs       We recorded net pre-tax restructuring
and related charges/(credits) totaling $357 million in 2008 and $166 million in 2007 for new and ongoing restructuring actions. We recorded these charges in the segments as follows:       
    The 2008 charges include $148 million in cost of sales, $205 million in selling, general and administrative
expenses and $4 million in other income. The 2007 charges include $110 million in cost of sales, $55 million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $1 million in other income. These charges relate principally to actions initiated
during 2008 and, to a lesser extent, residual trailing costs related to certain 2007 and 2006 actions.      Restructuring actions are an essential component of
our operating margin improvement efforts and relate to both existing operations and those recently acquired. We have acquired certain businesses at beneficial values, such as Linde, Chubb, Kidde and IESG, with the expectation of restructuring the
underlying cost structure in order to bring operating margins up to expected levels. Restructuring actions focus on streamlining costs through workforce reductions, the consolidation of manufacturing, sales and service facilities, and the transfer
of work to more cost-effective locations. For acquisitions prior to January 1, 2009, the costs of restructuring actions at the acquired company contemplated at the date of acquisition are recorded under purchase accounting and actions initiated
subsequently are recorded through operating results. However, upon the January 1, 2009 adoption of SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141(R)), restructuring costs associated with a business combination
will be expensed as incurred. We expect to initiate restructuring actions during 2009 across the businesses due to our continuing cost reduction efforts. Excluding the impact of SFAS 141(R), we expect to incur approximately $150 million of
restructuring costs in the first quarter of 2009. Although no specific plans for other significant actions have been finalized at this time, we continue to closely monitor the economic environment and may undertake further restructuring actions to
keep our cost structure aligned with the demands of the prevailing market conditions.         
      2008 Actions.   During 2008, we initiated
restructuring actions relating to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including selling, general and administrative reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing facilities. We recorded net pre-tax restructuring and related charges in the business
segments totaling $327 million as follows: Otis $21 million, Carrier $141 million, UTC Fire   Security $58 million, Pratt   Whitney $93 million, Hamilton Sundstrand $13 million and Eliminations   Other $1 million. The
charges included $119 million in cost of sales, $204 million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $4 million in other income. Those costs included $277 million for severance and related employee termination costs, $24 million for
asset write-downs and $26 million for facility exit and lease termination costs.      We expect the 2008 actions to result in net workforce reductions of
approximately 6,300 hourly and salaried employees, the exiting of approximately 1.2 million net square feet of facilities and the disposal of assets associated with the exited facilities. As of December 31, 2008, we have completed net
workforce reductions of approximately 3,900 employees. We are targeting the majority of the remaining workforce and all facility related cost reduction actions for completion during 2009 and 2010. Approximately 80% of the total pre-tax charge will
require cash payments, which we will fund with cash generated from operations. During 2008, we had cash outflows of approximately $130 million related to the 2008 actions. We expect to incur additional restructuring and related charges of $60
million to complete these actions. We expect recurring pre-tax savings to increase over the two-year period subsequent to initiating the actions to approximately $370 million annually, of which $108 million was realized in 2008.        2007 Actions.   During 2008, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring and related charges in the business segments totaling $10 million for restructuring
actions initiated in 2007. The 2007 actions relate to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including workforce reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing facilities. We recorded the charges in 2008 in our segments as follows: UTC Fire  
Security $5 million, Pratt   Whitney $2 million and Hamilton Sundstrand $3 million. The charges included $9 million in cost of sales and $1 million in selling, general and administrative expenses. Those costs included $7 million for
facility exit and lease termination costs, $2 million for asset write-downs and $1 million for severance.      We expect the 2007 actions to result in net
workforce reductions of approximately 1,800 hourly and salaried employees, the exiting of approximately 500,000 net square feet of facilities and the disposal of assets associated with the exited facilities. As of December 31, 2008, we
have      completed net workforce reductions of approximately 1,700 employees and exited 200,000 net square feet of facilities. We are targeting the majority of
the remaining workforce and facility related cost reduction actions for completion during 2009. Approximately 70% of the total pre-tax charge will require cash payments, which we will fund with cash generated from  

7   

operations. During 2008, we had cash outflows of approximately $40 million related to the 2007 actions. We expect to incur additional restructuring and
related charges of $5 million to complete these actions. We expect recurring pre-tax savings to increase over the two-year period subsequent to initiating the actions to approximately $110 million annually.        2006 Actions.   During 2008, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring and related charges of $20 million for actions initiated in 2006. The 2006 actions relate
to ongoing cost reduction efforts, selling, general and administrative reductions, workforce reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing facilities. The charges recorded in 2008 pertain to facility exit and lease termination costs, which
include $20 million of charges recorded to cost of sales and $1   
   
 million recorded to selling, general and administrative expenses at Pratt   Whitney, and $1 million of reversals recorded to selling, general and
administrative expenses at Carrier.      The 2006 actions resulted in the exiting of approximately 800,000 net square feet of facilities and the disposal
of assets associated with the exited facilities. As of December 31, 2008, we have completed all net workforce reductions of approximately 3,700 hourly and salaried employees and completed all facility related actions.      For additional discussion of restructuring, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         Segment Review        
          Commercial Businesses       The financial performance of our commercial
businesses can be influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw
material and energy costs, tightening of credit markets and other global and political factors. Carrier s financial performance can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment, and for its residential business,
weather conditions. Geographic and industry diversity across the commercial businesses help to balance the impact of such factors on our consolidated operating results. The decline in orders late in the year across our commercial businesses is a
result of continued weakness in the U.S. residential market, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar and a second half slowdown in global non-residential construction activity. Although we have not seen a significant increase in cancellations of orders
in the commercial businesses to date, we have experienced an increase in delays as the underlying projects contend with financing issues as a result of the tight credit markets.   
    In 2008, 72% of total commercial business revenues were
generated outside the United States, as compared to 71% in 2007. The following table shows revenues generated outside the United States for each of the commercial business segments:       
     Otis  is the world s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company.
Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides
modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis
sells directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through sales representatives and distributors.   

8   

Organic revenue growth of 7% in 2008 was generated by a strong opening new equipment backlog with revenue increases in Europe and North America. Revenues in
Asia were flat as growth in China was offset by a decline in Korea. New equipment orders rose 8% and new equipment backlog at the end of the year was up 9%, led by China. Deteriorating economic conditions have begun to adversely impact many
commercial construction markets around the world, resulting in declining new equipment order rates in the fourth quarter of 2008 and delays in some previously awarded projects. Global economic conditions are expected to adversely impact new
equipment sales, orders, and pricing in 2009.      In 2008, Otis revenues increased $1,064 million (9%) compared with 2007, reflecting organic growth
(7%) and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (3%), partially offset by the absence of gains on the sale of land and a non-core business (combined 1%) recorded in 2007. Revenue growth reflected increased new equipment and
service volume, aided by the strong new equipment backlog entering the year, as well as higher modernization and repair sales in North America and Europe, the latter benefiting from changes to elevator safety laws in France and Spain. The 2007
increase of $1,595 million (16%) reflected organic growth (8%), the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (6%) and gains on the sale of land and a non-core business (combined 1%). Organic growth reflected increases in all
geographic regions, led by new equipment sales.      Otis operating profits increased $156 million (7%) in 2008 compared with 2007. Profit improvement
resulted from higher volumes, product cost reductions and improved field installation efficiencies as partially offset by higher commodity and labor costs (net combined 9%), and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (5%). These
improvements were reduced by the absence in 2008 of gains realized on the sale of land and a non-core business in 2007 (combined 5%) and by provisions for inventory shortages and other accounting irregularities (2%) discovered at a subsidiary
in Brazil in late 2008. Otis expects to conclude its investigation into the Brazilian matter in 2009.      Operating profits increased $433 million
(23%) in 2007 compared with 2006 as a result of higher revenues and cost containment actions partially offset by escalating commodity and labor costs (net 9%), the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (7%), gains realized on the
sale of land and a non-core business (combined 6%), and lower restructuring charges (1%). Operating margins expanded despite the continued shift in sales mix towards new equipment, which has lower contribution margins than services.       Carrier  is the world s largest manufacturer and distributor of HVAC and refrigeration systems. It also produces food service equipment and HVAC and
refrigeration-related controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. Carrier also provides   
   
 installation, retrofit and aftermarket services and components for the products it sells and those of other manufacturers in the HVAC and refrigeration
industries. Sales are made both directly to the end customer and through manufacturers  representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of Carrier s HVAC businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by
weather. Carrier customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure adequate supply of our products in the distribution channel.      The slowing global economy has had an immediate impact on Carrier s short cycle businesses, leading to a decline in organic revenue of 1% in 2008. Weak end markets have adversely impacted the Refrigeration business and continued
weakness in the U.S. housing market unfavorably impacted the North American residential businesses. Higher costs on cross border transactions, as a result of significant currency shifts worldwide, have also negatively impacted 2008 operating margin.
Our current expectation is that the U.S. housing market deterioration will continue throughout 2009. Moderating commercial HVAC order rates and significant declines in transport refrigeration orders late in the year are expected to create
challenging business conditions in 2009. These challenges as well as weak global economic conditions are expected to contribute to a further overall decline in organic revenue in 2009. In response to the current economic environment and expected
slower worldwide growth, Carrier continues to focus on implementing restructuring and other cost reduction initiatives.      Although commodity prices declined
in the second half of 2008, Carrier still experienced overall cost increases for the year, in part due to certain existing long-term supplier agreements. As a result of commodity cost increases in 2008 and 2007, Carrier implemented price increases
on many of its products. Although this helped to partially mitigate the impact, commodity cost increases still had a net adverse impact to operating profit in 2008 and 2007 of $71 million and $79 million, respectively.      Carrier s revenues increased $300 million (2%) in 2008 compared with 2007, reflecting the favorable impact of both foreign currency translation (2%) and
the net impact of recent acquisitions (1%). Organic revenue declined (1%) for the year due to weak end markets in the Refrigeration business and a decline in the Residential and Light Commercial Systems business in North America attributable to
the continued weakness in the U.S. housing market. These decreases more than offset growth in the Building Systems and Services business while the Residential and Light Commercial International business was essentially flat. The year-over-year
impact from a gain generated on the contribution of a business into a new venture operating in the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States was essentially offset by the absence of a gain in 2007 on the disposition of Carrier s
Fincoil-teollisuus Oy (Fincoil) heat exchanger business.   

9   

Carrier s revenues increased $1,163 million (9%) in 2007 compared with 2006. Revenue growth was led by Building Systems and Services (3%),
Refrigeration (2%), and Residential and Light Commercial International HVAC (2%), partially offset by a decline in the Residential and Light Commercial Systems business in North America (2%) as a result of the weakness in the U.S. housing
market. The year-over-year impact from a gain on the disposition of Fincoil in 2007 was offset by the impact of a gain in 2006 on Carrier s sale of its interest in a compressor manufacturing joint venture. The favorable impact of foreign
currency translation (4%) comprised the majority of the remaining revenue increase in 2007.      Carrier s operating profits decreased $65 million
(5%) in 2008 compared with 2007. Higher restructuring costs (8%) and the adverse impact of higher commodity costs, net of pricing (5%), were partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (4%), the absence of
the adverse impact of a 2007 settlement of a gas furnace litigation matter (3%) and the net benefit from recent acquisitions (1%). A gain generated in 2008 from the contribution of a business to a new venture (5%) was mostly offset by the
absence of a gain (4%) recorded in 2007 on the disposition of Fincoil. Profit growth in Building Systems and Services, product cost reductions, and benefits from prior restructuring actions, were more than offset by lower earnings in the
Refrigeration and Residential and Light Commercial Systems International businesses and the adverse impact of higher costs on cross border transactions (4%), as a result of significant currency shifts experienced during the year, to contribute to
the remainder of the year-over-year decrease in operating profit.      Carrier s operating profits increased $144 million (12%) in 2007 compared with
2006. Earnings growth in Building Systems and Services, Residential and Light Commercial International HVAC, and Refrigeration more than offset declining earnings in Residential and Light Commercial Systems North America to generate a combined
increase in operating profits (14%). Lower restructuring charges (3%), the absence of manufacturing inefficiencies associated with the ramp up of the 13 SEER production in 2006, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (4%) were
partially offset by the adverse impact of higher commodity costs, net of price realization (6%). The adverse impact of the settlement of a furnace litigation matter ($36 million) was more than offset by a gain generated on the disposition of
Fincoil, to generate the majority of the remaining year-over-year change.       UTC Fire   Security  is a global provider of security and fire
safety products and services. The UTC Fire   Security segment was created in the second quarter of 2005 upon acquiring Kidde and adding the Kidde industrial, retail and commercial fire safety businesses to the former Chubb segment. In the
electronic security industry, UTC Fire   Security provides system integration, installation and service of intruder alarms, access control systems and video   
   
 surveillance systems under several brand names including Chubb. In the fire safety industry, UTC Fire   Security designs, manufactures, integrates,
installs, sells and services a wide range of specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products and systems and manufactures, sells and services portable fire extinguishers and other fire fighting equipment under several brand names including
Kidde. UTC Fire   Security also provides monitoring, response and security personnel services, including cash-in-transit security, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. UTC Fire   Security sells directly
to the customer as well as through manufacturers  representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution.      UTC Fire  
Security s revenues increased $708 million (12%) in 2008, as compared with 2007, due principally to net acquisitions (9%). Organic revenue growth of 3% was primarily contributed by the North American and European Fire Safety businesses
(2%) due to strength in the oil   gas and marine industries and in Asia. UTC Fire   Security s revenues increased $1,007 million (21%) in 2007, as compared with 2006, due to acquisitions (12%), the favorable impact
of foreign currency translation (7%) and organic growth (2%).      UTC Fire   Security s operating profits increased $99 million
(22%) in 2008, as compared with 2007, due principally to increased sales volume, the benefits of net cost reductions from previous restructuring and integration and continuing productivity initiatives (combined 18%) and net acquisitions
(11%). These improvements were partially offset by the adverse impact of higher restructuring costs (5%) and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation (1%) to reflect the majority of the remaining year-over-year operating
profit change. Operating profits increased $142 million (47%) in 2007 as compared with 2006. The majority of the increase in operating profits was generated from increased volume, net cost reductions from previous restructuring actions
(combined 19%), net acquisitions (19%), lower restructuring costs (2%) and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (9%). These improvements were partially offset by the net adverse impact of higher commodity costs (3%).   
   Aerospace Businesses       The financial performance of
Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky is directly tied to the economic conditions of the commercial aerospace and defense industries. In particular, Pratt   Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial
airframe/engine combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, participation in financing arrangements and maintenance agreements. At times, the aerospace
businesses also enter into firm fixed-price development contracts, which may require the company to bear cost overruns related to unforeseen technical and design challenges that arise during the development stage of the program. Customer selections
of engines and components can also have a significant  

10   

impact on later sales of parts and service. Predicted traffic levels, load factors, worldwide airline profits, general economic activity and global defense
spending have been reliable indicators for new aircraft and aftermarket orders within the aerospace industry. Spare part sales and aftermarket service trends are affected by many factors, including usage, technological improvements, pricing,
regulatory changes and the retirement of older aircraft. Performance in the general aviation sector is closely tied to the overall health of the economy and is positively correlated to corporate profits.      The volatility of fuel prices throughout much of 2008 adversely impacted the commercial aerospace industry leading many airline carriers to consolidate or reduce
capacity by idling some aircraft and retiring other older and less fuel efficient aircraft. Several smaller carriers have either declared bankruptcy or shut down altogether. Although fuel prices had declined substantially by the end of 2008, the
deterioration in the worldwide economic environment has led to a significant decline in passenger and cargo traffic. RPM growth was essentially flat in 2008 compared to the 5% growth reflected in 2007. We expect worldwide RPMs to be down
approximately 3% in 2009 as a result of expected further air traffic declines. While the service and capacity reductions did not have a significant impact on our 2008 full year results, we did begin to see a decline in Pratt  
Whitney s year-over-year large commercial spares orders and we expect a further decline in 2009 based upon the current economic conditions. As a result of lower business jet utilization, P WC experienced a decline in spares volume in the
second half of 2008, and expect further declines in 2009. Total commercial aerospace aftermarket revenues increased 2% in 2008 compared with 2007, reflecting increases at both Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky, while Pratt   Whitney was
essentially flat year-over-year. Pratt   Whitney s commercial aerospace aftermarket revenue performance reflects the growth experienced in the first half of 2008 offset by declines in the second half of the year. Hamilton
Sundstrand s aftermarket revenues increased in the year due to provisioning by the airlines and as it supplies product content on a broad spectrum of aircraft.      Despite the airline industry adversity, the strong production levels at the airframe manufacturers generated commercial aerospace OEM growth in 2008, as compared with 2007, as airframe manufacturers continued
delivering on their strong backlogs. Given the current tight credit markets facing both the airlines and the business jet market, there is a possibility that some commercial aircraft delivery dates scheduled for 2009 are at risk of being deferred.
Projected global traffic declines, a weakening business jet market, and the possible deferral of commercial aircraft deliveries by airlines to counter the weakening travel demand are all expected to result in a moderation of growth rates in the
commercial aerospace markets. The machinist strike at Boeing during the year did not have a significant adverse impact to our 2008 full year results.         
    Continued government military spending is driving helicopter
demand and, as a result, Sikorsky s military backlog remains very strong. While the U.S. Defense Department budgets are largely in place for 2009, spending beyond 2009 will reflect policies of a new administration and Congress. Across all
segments, military OEM volume increased 13% in 2008 compared with 2007, led by Sikorsky. As a result of the strong military helicopter demand and our existing backlogs, we expect further growth in helicopter deliveries in 2009. Total sales to the
U.S. government of $7.7 billion, $7.3 billion, and $6.4 billion in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, were 13% of total UTC sales in 2008 and 14% in both 2007 and 2006. The defense portion of our aerospace business is affected by changes in market
demand and the global political environment. Our participation in long-term production and development programs for the U.S. government has contributed positively to our results in 2008 and is expected to continue to benefit results in 2009.
      Pratt   Whitney  is among the world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general
aviation markets. Pratt   Whitney s Global Services organization provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt  
Whitney produces families of engines for wide and narrow body aircraft in the commercial and military markets. Pratt   Whitney also sells engines for industrial applications and space propulsion systems. P WC is a world leader in the
production of engines powering business, regional, light jet, utility and military aircraft and helicopters. Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne (PWR) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated aerospace propulsion
systems for military and commercial applications, including the U.S. space shuttle. Pratt   Whitney s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, space
launch vehicle providers and U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt   Whitney s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards,
along with the long duration of aircraft engine programs, create uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and
foreign sales representatives.      During 2007, both Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (MHI) and Bombardier selected Pratt   Whitney s PurePower
engine to power their planned new aircraft. Both aircraft are scheduled to enter service in 2013. The PurePower engine, featuring GTF technology, is the exclusive power plant for the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet and the proposed Bombardier C Series
family of passenger aircraft. This engine targets a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels with lower environmental emissions and operating costs than current production engines. In  

11   

2008, the PurePower demonstrator engine successfully completed flight testing. The success of these aircraft and the PurePower engine is dependent upon many
factors including technological challenges, aircraft demand, and regulatory approval. Based on these factors, additional investment in the PurePower and the GTF program will be required, with potential additional investment in the underlying
aircraft programs being dependent on successful launch by the air-framers and other conditions.      In
view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt   Whitney has entered into collaboration agreements in which revenues, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2008, the interests of participants in new and
existing Pratt   Whitney-directed jet engine production programs ranged from 14% to 29%. In addition, Pratt   Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 33% interest in the International Aero Engines (IAE)
collaboration that sells and supports V2500      engines for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft. At December 31, 2008, a portion of Pratt   Whitney s interest in IAE
(equivalent to 4% of the overall IAE collaboration) was held by Pratt   Whitney sub-partners. Pratt   Whitney also has a 50% interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, undertaken to develop, market and
manufacture the GP7000      engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. At December 31, 2008, 40% of Pratt   Whitney s 50% interest in the EA was held by other participants. During
2008, we also entered into collaboration arrangements for the above mentioned PurePower engine programs. Effective January 1, 2009, we have adopted EITF Issue No. 07-1,  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements,  which requires
that revenues and costs from collaborative arrangements be reported on a gross basis in the appropriate line item in our financial statement. For additional discussion of this EITF Issue, see  New Accounting Pronouncements.       Pratt   Whitney s revenues increased $836 million (7%) in 2008 as compared with 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to higher engine
deliveries at P WC (4%), increased commercial engine revenue and aftermarket services volume, partially offset by commercial spares (net combined 1%), and increased volume at Pratt   Whitney Power Systems (1%). Increased volume at PWR
(1%) was offset by lower military engine volumes. Revenues increased $1,017 million (9%) in 2007 as compared with 2006. This increase was primarily attributable to higher engine deliveries at P WC (4%), higher commercial aftermarket
volume (3%), and higher volumes at Pratt   Whitney Power Systems (3%).      Pratt   Whitney s operating profits increased $111 million
(6%) in 2008 as compared with 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to the profit contributions from higher engine deliveries and favorable engine mix at P WC (7%) and increased volume at PWR (2%). Operating profit growth also
reflects a gain from the sale of a partial investment (2%) and the   
   
 favorable impact of commercial engine mix, a commercial engine program adjustment, and lower net commodity costs (combined 3%). These profit contributions
were partially offset by the absence of the favorable impact of a contract termination in 2007 (3%), higher year-over-year restructuring costs (3%) and the adverse impact of foreign currency movement (3%) on both foreign currency
translation and hedging activity.      Pratt   Whitney s operating profits increased $194 million (11%) in 2007 as compared with 2006. This
increase was primarily attributable to the profit contribution from higher volumes in commercial markets and aftermarket services (12%), higher volumes and aftermarket performance at P WC (6%), and an improved engine mix in military markets
(5%). These increases to operating profit were partially offset by the impact of higher year-over-year commodity costs (7%), and the absence of the favorable impact of a 2006 settlement of a government litigation matter (5%).       Hamilton Sundstrand  is among the world s leading suppliers of technologically advanced aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for
diversified industries worldwide. Hamilton Sundstrand s aerospace products, such as power generation, management and distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection
systems, auxiliary power units and propeller systems, serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as well as space and undersea applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and
technical support and fleet maintenance programs. Hamilton Sundstrand sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators and independent distributors. Hamilton Sundstrand s principal
industrial products, such as air compressors, metering pumps and fluid handling equipment, serve industries involved with raw material processing, bulk material handling, construction, hydrocarbon and chemical processing, and water and wastewater
treatment. These products are sold under the Sullair, Sundyne, Milton Roy and other brand names directly to end-users and through manufacturers  representatives and distributors.      Hamilton Sundstrand s revenues increased $571 million (10%) in 2008 as compared with 2007, due principally to organic volume growth in both the aerospace (7%) and industrial (2%) businesses, and
the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (1%). The increase within aerospace was primarily attributable to OEM volume growth. Revenues increased $641 million (13%) in 2007 as compared with 2006 due principally to organic volume
growth in both the aerospace (7%) and industrial (2%) businesses, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (2%). Within aerospace, both commercial aftermarket (5%) and commercial OEM (2%) contributed to the volume
increase.   

12   

Hamilton Sundstrand s operating profits increased $132 million (14%) in 2008 as compared with 2007, primarily due to growth in the aerospace
(6%) and industrial businesses (2%). The favorable impact of gains related to divestiture activity (3%), the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (1%), and lower year-over-year restructuring costs (1%) contributed the majority
of the remaining year-over-year operating profit growth. Operating profits increased $135 million (16%) in 2007 as compared with 2006 due principally to volume growth in both the commercial aftermarket (13%) and industrial businesses
(2%) and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation (2%). Operating profits from commercial OEM revenue growth (8%) and the impact of lower restructuring costs (2%) were mostly offset by increased company funded research and
development costs (9%), principally related to the Boeing 787 program.       Sikorsky  is one of the world s largest manufacturers of military and
commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services. Current major production programs at Sikorsky include the UH-60M Black Hawk medium-transport helicopters and HH-60M Medevac helicopters for the U.S. and
foreign governments, the S-70 Black Hawk for foreign governments, the MH-60S and MH-60R helicopters for the U.S. Navy, the International Naval Hawk for multiple naval missions, and the S-76 and the S-92 helicopters for commercial operations. The
UH-60M helicopter is the latest and most modern in a series of Black Hawk variants that Sikorsky has been delivering to the U.S. Army since 1978 and requires significant additional assembly hours relative to the previous variants. In December 2007,
the U.S. government and Sikorsky signed a five-year, multi-service contract for 537 H-60 helicopters to be delivered to the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy, which include the UH-60M, HH-60M, MH-60S and MH-60R aircraft. The contract value for expected
deliveries over the five year term is approximately $7.4 billion and includes options for an additional 263 aircraft, spares, and kits, with the total contract value potentially reaching $11.6 billion making it the largest contract in UTC and
Sikorsky history. Actual production quantities will be determined year by year over the life of the program based on funding allocations set by Congress and Pentagon acquisition priorities. The deliveries of the aircraft are scheduled to be made
through 2012. Sikorsky also is developing the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the CH-148, a derivative of the H-92, a military variant of the S-92, for the Canadian government. The latter is being developed
under an approximately $3 billion firm, fixed-price contract that provides for the development, production, and 20-year logistical support of 28 helicopters. This is the largest and most expansive fixed-price development contract in Sikorsky s
history. In December 2008, Sikorsky and the Canadian government executed amendments to the contract that revised the delivery schedule and contract specifications. The first test flight was successfully conducted in November 2008 and delivery of the
first helicopter is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2010.   
   
 Sikorsky s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts, and logistics support programs for
helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are made directly by Sikorsky and by its subsidiaries and joint ventures. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial customers to manage and
provide maintenance and repair services.      Sikorsky s revenues increased $579 million (12%) in 2008, as compared with 2007, due to the higher
volume of military aircraft deliveries and a favorable aircraft mix between military and commercial programs. Revenues increased $1,559 million (48%) in 2007, as compared with 2006, due to higher business volume and full production in 2007 as
compared to 2006, which was adversely impacted by the six week strike of Sikorsky s union workforce. Increases in military aircraft deliveries and program support (22%), commercial aircraft revenues (13%) and aftermarket operations
(13%) comprised the majority of the year-over-year revenue increase.      Sikorsky s operating profits increased $105 million (28%) in 2008 as
compared with 2007. This improvement was primarily attributable to increased military aircraft deliveries and favorable aircraft mix for both military and commercial programs (combined 42%). These improvements were partially offset by increased
selling, general, and administrative expenses (7%) and research and development (6%). Sikorsky s operating profits increased $200 million (116%) in 2007 as compared with 2006. A 58% increase in the number of large aircraft deliveries
as a result of strong commercial and military demand and the absence of the strike related impact in 2006 generated the majority of the increase in operating profit in 2007. Lower year-over-year restructuring charges (14%), partially offset by the
absence of recoveries from the Comanche program termination (7%), contributed to the remaining operating profit increase.       Liquidity and Financing
Commitments        

13   

We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Our principal source of liquidity is operating
cash flows, which, after netting out capital expenditures, we target to equal or exceed net income. In addition to operating cash flows, other significant factors that affect our overall management of liquidity include: capital expenditures,
customer financing requirements, investments in businesses, dividends, common stock repurchases, pension funding, access to the commercial paper markets, adequacy of available bank lines of credit, and the ability to attract long-term capital at
satisfactory terms.      Recent distress in the financial markets has had an adverse impact on financial market activities including, among other things,
extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. We have assessed the implications of these factors on our current business,
are closely monitoring the impact on our customers and suppliers, and have determined that there has not been a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during 2008. Our pension plans have not experienced any
significant impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility in the credit markets. However, as a result of losses experienced in the global equity markets, our domestic pension funds experienced a negative return on assets of
approximately 27% in 2008. This negative return on our domestic plan in 2008, combined with a change in discount rate will increase pension costs by approximately $225 million in 2009 as compared to 2008. The negative return on assets also had a
significant adverse impact on shareowners  equity in 2008. Combined with the changes attributable to foreign currency translation, the unrealized pension losses contributed a combined increase of seven percentage points to the debt to equity
ratio.      Approximately 85% of our domestic pension plans are invested in readily-liquid investments, including equity, fixed income, asset backed
receivables and structured products. Less than 1% of these investments are senior tranches of several structured investment vehicles that have been absorbed onto the balance sheets of the sponsoring banks. The balance of our domestic pension plans
(14%) is invested in less-liquid but market-valued investments, including real estate and private equity.      As discussed further below, our strong debt
ratings and financial position enabled us to issue $1.0 billion of long-term debt in May 2008 and $1.25 billion of long-term debt in December 2008 at favorable market rates. While market volatility cannot be predicted, we do not currently expect a
significant impact to our liquidity, financial position or results of operations in 2009.         
    Our ability to obtain debt financing at comparable risk-based
interest rates is partly a function of our existing debt to capitalization levels as well as our current credit standing. In December 2008, we used the net proceeds from our December 2008 issuance of $1.25 billion in long-term debt to repay a
portion of our outstanding commercial paper borrowings at that time, as well as a portion of our outstanding borrowings from our multicurrency revolving credit facility. Our credit ratings are reviewed regularly by major debt rating agencies such as
Standard and Poor s and Moody s Investors Service. In November 2008, Standard and Poor s affirmed our short-term debt rating as A-1, and in December 2008, affirmed our long-term debt rating as A. Similarly, in November 2008,
Moody s Investors Service also affirmed its corporate rating on our long-term and short-term debt as A2 and P-1, respectively. We continue to have access to the commercial paper markets and our existing credit facilities, and expect to continue
to generate strong operating cash flows. While the impact of continued market volatility cannot be predicted, we believe we have sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity and to
meet our future operating cash needs.      Most of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering
available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax
consequences; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. We will continue to transfer cash from those subsidiaries to UTC and to other international subsidiaries when it is cost
effective to do so.      We believe our future operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Further, our ability to obtain
debt or equity financing, as well as the availability under committed credit lines, provides additional potential sources of liquidity should they be required.       Cash Flow from Operating Activities        
    In both 2008 and 2007, the majority of cash flows provided by operating activities were generated by the income
from the strong operational performance in both years. For 2008, the net income contribution was partially offset by a growth in working capital of $230 million and  

14   

an increase in other net operating assets of approximately $240 million. The approximately $560 million growth in inventory was significantly lower than the
$1.1 billion growth in 2007 and largely reflected the increased production levels at Sikorsky. However, the overall growth in inventories was more than offset by accounts payable and customer advances reflected in the approximately $790 million
increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable is reflective of the overall growth in revenues.      For 2007,
revenue and production growth generated a combined increase in inventory and accounts receivable of approximately $1.6 billion. However, this amount was completely funded by accounts payable and customer advances as reflected in the approximately
$1.6 billion increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Changes in other net operating assets consumed approximately $680 million due largely to the payment of the previously noted EU Fine and to the payment of Canadian taxes in
connection with ongoing tax planning activities.      The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested
assets and the level of market interest rates. We can contribute cash or company stock to our plans at our discretion, subject to applicable regulations. Total cash contributions to pension plans during 2008 and 2007 were $242 million and $181
million, respectively. We also contributed $250 million and $150 million in UTC common stock to these plans during 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, the total investment by the defined benefit pension plans in our securities
is approximately 4% of total plan assets. We expect to make contributions of approximately $600 million to our pension plans in 2009, including approximately $400 million to our domestic plans. Expected contributions to our defined pension plans in
2009 will meet or exceed the current funding requirements.       Cash Flow from Investing Activities        
    The 2008 activity primarily reflects a net investment in businesses of $915 million and capital expenditures of
$1,216 million. This compares with a net investment in businesses in 2007 of $1,739 million and capital expenditures of $1,153 million. Cash investment in businesses across all of our operations in 2008 was $1,252 million and primarily consisted of
a number of small acquisitions in our commercial businesses. Acquisitions in 2007 consisted principally of the UTC Fire   Security acquisition of IESG for $952 million and Marioff for $348 million, as   
   
 well as a number of smaller acquisitions across the businesses. Dispositions in both 2008 and 2007 consisted primarily of the sale of certain non-core
businesses including Carrier s Fincoil in 2007. We expect total investments in businesses in 2009 to approximate $2 billion; however, actual acquisition spending may vary depending upon the timing, availability and appropriate value of
acquisition opportunities.      The $63 million increase in capital expenditures in 2008 as compared with 2007 is related largely to restructuring and facility
changes across the businesses. In preparation for the challenging economic climate expected in 2009, we have tightened capital expenditure spending substantially across the company and as a result expect a reduction of spending in 2009.   
  Customer financing activities were a net cash use of $147 million in 2008, compared to a net cash use of $139 million in 2007. While we expect that customer financing
will be a net use of cash in 2009, actual funding is subject to usage under existing customer financing arrangements. At December 31, 2008, we had financing and rental commitments of $1,142 million related to commercial aircraft, of which as
much as $407 million may be required to be disbursed in 2009. We may also arrange for third-party investors to assume a portion of our commitments. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of our commercial
aerospace industry assets and commitments.       Cash Flow from Financing Activities        
    In both 2008 and 2007, cash was primarily used to return value to shareowners through dividends and share
repurchases. In December 2008, May 2008 and December 2007, we issued $1.25 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, of long-term debt. The proceeds of the May 2008 issuance were primarily used for general corporate
purposes, including financing acquisitions and repurchases of our stock. The proceeds of the December 2008 and 2007 issuances were primarily used to repay commercial paper borrowings and to repay outstanding borrowings under our
multicurrency revolving credit facility described below.      The timing and levels of certain cash flow activities, such as acquisitions and repurchases
of our stock, have resulted in the issuance of both long-term and short-term debt. Commercial paper  

15   

borrowings and revolving credit facilities provide short-term liquidity to supplement operating cash flows and are used for general corporate purposes,
including the funding of potential acquisitions and repurchases of our stock. At December 31, 2008, we had two committed credit agreements from banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $2.5 billion. One credit commitment is a $1.5 billion
revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2008 there were no borrowings under this revolving credit agreement, which expires in October 2011. We also have a $1.0 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement that is available for
general funding purposes, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $460 million had been borrowed under this revolving credit agreement. This agreement expires in November 2011. As of December 31, 2008, the undrawn
portions of both the $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement and $1.0 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement were available to serve as backup facilities for the issuance of commercial paper. In December 2008, we increased our maximum
commercial paper borrowing authority from $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion. In addition, at December 31, 2008, approximately $2.0 billion was available under short-term lines of credit with local banks at our various domestic and international
subsidiaries. We had approximately $150 million of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008, all of which was scheduled to mature within one month. In February 2009, we redeemed the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of
Floating Rate Notes that were due in June 2009.      In July 2007, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for an indeterminate amount
of securities for future issuance, subject to our internal limitations on the amount of debt to be issued under this shelf registration statement.      Financing cash outflows for 2008 and 2007 included the repurchase of 50.4 million and 28.3 million shares of our common stock for $3,160 million and $2,001 million, respectively, under a share repurchase program. On June 11,
2008, the Board of Directors authorized a new 60 million common share repurchase program that replaced the previous program, approved in December 2006, which was nearing completion. Of the approximately 50 million shares which were
repurchased in 2008, 19 million shares were repurchased under the previous program and 31 million shares were repurchased under the new program. In addition to management s view that the repurchase of our common stock is a beneficial
investment, we also repurchase to offset the dilutive effect of the issuance of stock and options under the stock-based employee benefit programs. At December 31, 2008, we had remaining authority to repurchase approximately 29 million
shares under the current program. We expect total share repurchases in 2009 to approximate $2.0 billion; however, total repurchases may vary depending upon various factors including the level of other investing activities.         
    We paid dividends of $.32 per share in the first quarter of 2008 for a total of $293 million, $.32 per share in the second quarter for a total of $290 million, $.32 per share in the third quarter for a total of $286
million, and $.385 per share in the fourth quarter for a total of $341 million. During 2007, $1,080 million of cash dividends were paid to shareowners.       Critical Accounting Estimates       Preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management believes the
most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant areas
involving management judgments and estimates are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from management s estimates.        Long-Term Contract Accounting.   We utilize percentage of completion accounting on certain of our long-term contracts. The percentage of completion method requires estimates of future revenues and costs over the full term of
product delivery. We also utilize the completed-contract method of accounting on certain lesser value commercial contracts. Under the completed-contract method, sales and cost of sales are recognized when a contract is completed.      Losses, if any, on long-term contracts are provided for when anticipated. We recognize loss provisions on original equipment contracts to the extent that estimated
inventoriable manufacturing, engineering, product warranty and product performance guarantee costs exceed the projected revenue from the products contemplated under the contractual arrangement. For new commitments, we generally record loss
provisions at the earlier of contract announcement or contract signing. For existing commitments, anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in the period in which losses become evident. Products contemplated under the contractual arrangement
include products purchased under the contract and, in the large commercial engine business, future highly probable sales of replacement parts required by regulation that are expected to be purchased subsequently for incorporation into the original
equipment. Revenue projections used in determining contract loss provisions are based upon estimates of the quantity, pricing and timing of future product deliveries. We recognize losses on shipment to the extent that inventoriable manufacturing
costs, estimated warranty costs and product performance guarantee costs exceed revenue realized. We measure  

16   

the extent of progress toward completion on our long-term commercial aerospace equipment and helicopter contracts using units of delivery. In addition, we
use the cost-to-cost method for development contracts in the aerospace businesses and for elevator and escalator sales, installation and modernization contracts in the commercial businesses. For long-term aftermarket contracts, we recognize revenue
over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the contract. Contract accounting also requires estimates of future costs over the performance period of the contract as well as an estimate of
award fees and other sources of revenue.      Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which can be several years, and the estimation of these costs
requires management s judgment. The long-term nature of these contracts, the complexity of the products, and the strict safety and performance standards under which they are regulated can affect our ability to estimate costs precisely. As a
result, we review and update our cost estimates on significant contracts on a quarterly basis, and no less frequently than annually for all others, or when circumstances change and warrant a modification to a previous estimate. We record adjustments
to contract loss provisions in earnings when identified.        Income Taxes.   The future tax benefit arising from net deductible temporary
differences and tax carryforwards is $5.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2007. Management believes that our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to
realize the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided.      In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability
of tax loss carryforwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to
realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce such amounts through a charge to income in the period in which that determination is made or when tax law changes are enacted. Conversely, if we were to determine
that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, we would decrease the recorded valuation allowance through an increase to income in the period in which that determination is made.
Subsequently recognized tax benefits associated with valuation allowances recorded in a business combination have been recorded as an adjustment to goodwill. However, upon the January 1, 2009 adoption of SFAS 141(R), changes in deferred tax
asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally will affect income tax expense as further described in  New Accounting Pronouncements.          
    In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying our income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon
management s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax
benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit
will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. See Notes 1 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.        Goodwill and Intangible Assets.   Our net investments in businesses in 2008 totaled $1.4 billion, including approximately $196 million of debt assumed. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are
recorded under the purchase method of accounting at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses.      Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing. The identification and measurement of
goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management
assumptions about expected future cash flows and contemplates other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions or the rate and extent to which anticipated synergies or cost savings are
realized with newly acquired entities. We completed our assessment of goodwill as of July 1, 2008 and determined that no impairment existed at that date. Although no significant goodwill impairment has been recorded to date, there can be no
assurances that future goodwill impairments will not occur. However, a 10% decrease in the estimated fair value of any of our reporting units at the date of our 2008 assessment would not have resulted in a goodwill impairment charge. See Note 2
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.        Product Performance.   We extend performance and operating cost guarantees
beyond our normal service and warranty policies for extended periods on some of our products, particularly commercial aircraft engines. Liability under such guarantees is based upon future product performance and durability. In addition, we incur
discretionary costs to service our products in connection with product performance issues. We accrue for such costs that are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The costs associated with these product performance and operating cost guarantees
require estimates over the full terms of the  

17   

agreements, and require management to consider factors such as the extent of future maintenance requirements and the future cost of material and labor to
perform the services. These cost estimates are largely based upon historical experience. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.        Contracting with the U.S. Government.   Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to government oversight and audit. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports, which recommend
that certain contract prices should be reduced to comply with various government regulations. Some of these audit reports have involved substantial amounts. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate. In addition, we accrue
for liabilities associated with those government contracting matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The inherent uncertainty related to the outcome of these matters can result in amounts materially different from any provisions
made with respect to their resolution. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. We recorded sales to the U.S. government of $7.7 billion, $7.3 billion, and $6.4 billion in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
       Employee Benefit Plans.   We sponsor domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Major assumptions used in
the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, rate of increase in employee compensation levels, and health care cost increase projections. Assumptions are determined based on company data
and appropriate market indicators, and are evaluated each year at December 31. A change in any of these assumptions would have an effect on net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 25 basis point
change in the discount rate as of December 31, 2008.       

(in millions of dollars)   
      
  Change in Discount Rate Increase in 25 bps  

Change in Discount Rate Decrease in 25 bps

Pension plans   

Projected benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  (625  
  )    
        
  $  
  647   
 
    Net periodic pension cost   

(67  
  )  

66   
 
    Other postretirement benefit plans   

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   

(14  
  )  

14   
 
    Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   

Pension expense is also sensitive to changes in the expected long-term rate of asset return. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected long-term rate of
asset return would have decreased or increased 2008 pension expense by approximately $48 million.      The weighted-average discount rate used to measure
pension liabilities and costs is set by reference to UTC specific analysis using each plan s specific cash flows and compared to high-quality bond indices for reasonableness. Global market interest rates have increased in 2008 as compared with
2007 and, as a result, the weighted-average discount rate used to measure pension liabilities increased from 6.0% in 2007 to 6.1% in 2008. Pension expense in 2009 is expected to increase approximately $225 million primarily as a result of negative
asset return incurred in 2008 that resulted from the deterioration in the global equity markets. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.        Inventory Valuation Reserves.   Inventory valuation reserves are established in order to report inventories at the lower of cost or market value on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The determination of
inventory valuation reserves requires management to make estimates and judgments on the future salability of inventories. Valuation reserves for excess, obsolete, and slow-moving inventory are estimated by comparing the inventory levels of
individual parts to both future sales forecasts or production requirements and historical usage rates in order to      identify inventory where the resale value
or replacement value is less than inventoriable cost. Other factors that management considers in determining these reserves include whether individual inventory parts meet current specifications and cannot be substituted for a part currently being
sold or used as a service part, overall market conditions, and other inventory management initiatives.      As of December 31, 2008, and 2007 we had $497
million and $471 million, respectively, of inventory valuation reserves recorded. Although management believes these reserves are adequate, any abrupt changes in market conditions may require us to record additional inventory valuation reserves.
      Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations       We extend a variety of financial guarantees to third parties in support of unconsolidated affiliates and for potential financing requirements of commercial aerospace customers. We also have obligations arising from sales of certain
businesses and assets, including representations and warranties and related indemnities for environmental, health and safety, tax and employment matters. Circumstances that could cause the contingent obligations and liabilities arising from these
arrangements to come to fruition are changes in an underlying transaction (e.g., hazardous waste discoveries, etc.), nonperformance under a contract, customer requests for financing, or deterioration in the financial condition of the guaranteed
party.   

18   

A summary of our consolidated contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2008 is as follows:       

*  
  Principal only; excludes associated interest payments        Purchase
obligations include amounts committed under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined terms as to price, quantity, delivery and termination liability. Approximately 35% of the purchase obligations disclosed
above represent purchase orders for products to be delivered under firm contracts with the U.S. government for which we have full recourse under normal contract termination clauses.      Other long-term liabilities primarily include those amounts on our December 31, 2008 balance sheet representing obligations under product service and warranty policies, performance and operating cost guarantees,
estimated environmental remediation costs and payments under employee benefit programs. Due to the impact of current market conditions on our overall pension plans, our pension plans shifted from a net asset position in 2007 to a net liability
position in 2008, requiring a gross obligation of approximately $14 billion to be reflected in the above table. The timing of expected cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management s estimates over the terms of these
agreements and is largely based upon historical experience.      The above table does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $773 million, the timing of
which is uncertain, except for approximately $50 million that may become payable during 2009. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits. In addition, the above table does not
include approximately $600 million of expected contributions to our global pension plans in 2009, including approximately $400 million to our domestic plans.   
     Commercial Commitments        
    Refer to Notes 4, 13 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on contractual and
commercial commitments.       Market Risk and Risk Management       We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. To manage certain of those exposures, we use derivative instruments, including swaps, forward contracts and options. Derivative
instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. We diversify the counterparties used and monitor the concentration of risk to
limit our counterparty exposure.      We have evaluated our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices in our
market risk sensitive instruments, which are primarily cash, debt and derivative instruments, using a value at risk analysis. Based on a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding period, at December 31, 2008, the potential loss in fair value
on our market risk sensitive instruments was not material in relation to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our calculated value at risk exposure represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses based on
volatilities and correlations and is not necessarily indicative of actual results. Refer to Notes 1, 8 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of foreign currency exchange, interest rates and financial instruments.

19   

Foreign Currency Exposures.   We have a large volume of foreign currency exposures that result from our international sales, purchases,
investments, borrowings and other international transactions. International segment revenues, including U.S. export sales, averaged approximately $33 billion over the last three years. We actively manage foreign currency exposures that are
associated with committed foreign currency purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business at the operating unit level. More than insignificant exposures that cannot be naturally offset within an
operating unit are hedged with foreign currency derivatives. We also have a significant amount of foreign currency net asset exposures. Currently, we do not hold any derivative contracts that hedge our foreign currency net asset exposures but may
consider such strategies in the future.      Within aerospace, our revenues are typically denominated in U.S. dollars under accepted industry convention.
However, for our non-U.S. based entities, such as P WC, a substantial portion of their costs are incurred in local currencies. Consequently, there is a foreign currency exchange impact and risk to operational results as U.S. dollars must be
converted to local currencies such as the Canadian dollar in order to meet local currency cost obligations. In order to minimize the exposure that exists from changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies, we hedge a
certain portion of revenues to secure the rates at which U.S. dollars will be converted. The majority of this hedging activity occurs at P WC. At P WC, firm and forecasted sales for both engines and spare parts are hedged at varying amounts
up to 24 months on the U.S. dollar revenue exposure as represented by the excess of U.S. dollar revenues over U.S. dollar denominated purchases. Hedging gains and losses resulting from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially
offset by the foreign currency translation impacts that are generated on the translation of local currency operating results into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. While the objective of the hedging program is to minimize the foreign currency
exchange impact on operating results, there are typically variances between the hedging gains or losses and the translational impact due to the length of hedging contracts, changes in the revenue profile, volatility in the exchange rates and other
such operational considerations.        Interest Rate Exposures.   Our long-term debt portfolio consists mostly of fixed-rate instruments. From time
to time, we may hedge to floating rates using interest rate swaps. The hedges are designated as fair value hedges and the gains and losses on the swaps are reported in interest expense, reflecting that portion of interest expense at a variable rate.
We issue commercial paper, which exposes us to changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not hold any derivative contracts that hedge our interest exposures, but may consider such strategies in the future.        Commodity Price Exposures.   We are exposed to volatility in the prices of raw materials used in some of our products and from time to time we may use
forward contracts in limited   
   
 circumstances to manage some of those exposures. In the future, if hedges are used, gains and losses may affect earnings. There were no significant
outstanding commodity hedges as of December 31, 2008.       Environmental Matters       Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. As a result, we have
established, and continually update, policies relating to environmental standards of performance for our operations worldwide. We believe that expenditures necessary to comply with the present regulations governing environmental protection will not
have a material effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.      We have identified 579 locations, mostly
in the United States, at which we may have some liability for remediating contamination. We have resolved our liability at 228 of these locations. We do not believe that any individual location s exposure will have a material effect on our
results of operations. Sites in the investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance stage represent approximately 92% of our accrued environmental liability.      We have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund) at 107 sites. The number of Superfund sites, in and of
itself, does not represent a relevant measure of liability because the nature and extent of environmental concerns vary from site to site and our share of responsibility varies from sole responsibility to very little responsibility. In estimating
our liability for remediation, we consider our likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation expense and the ability of other potentially responsible parties to fulfill their obligations. Accrued environmental liabilities are not reduced
by potential insurance reimbursements.      At December 31, 2008, we had $553 million reserved for environmental remediation. Cash outflows for
environmental remediation were $46 million in both 2008 and 2007, and $79 million in 2006. We estimate that ongoing environmental remediation expenditures in each of the next two years will not exceed $70 million.       Government Matters       As described in the  Critical Accounting
Estimates   Contracting with the U.S. government,  our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audits. Such audits may recommend that certain contract prices should be reduced to comply with various government regulations. We are
also the subject of one or more investigations and legal proceedings initiated by the U.S. government with respect to government contract matters.   

20   

As previously disclosed, the Department of Justice (DOJ) sued us in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, claiming that Pratt  
Whitney violated the civil False Claims Act and common law. This lawsuit relates to the  Fighter Engine Competition  between Pratt   Whitney s F100 engine and General Electric s F110 engine. The DOJ alleges that the
government overpaid for F100 engines under contracts awarded by the U.S. Air Force in fiscal years 1985 through 1990 because Pratt   Whitney inflated its estimated costs for some purchased parts and withheld data that would have revealed
the overstatements. At trial of this matter, completed in December 2004, the government claimed Pratt   Whitney s liability to be $624 million. On August 1, 2008, the trial court judge held that the Air Force had not
suffered any actual damages because Pratt   Whitney had made significant price concessions. However, the trial court judge found that Pratt   Whitney violated the False Claims Act due to inaccurate statements
contained in the 1983 offer. In the absence of actual damages, the trial court judge awarded the DOJ the maximum civil penalty of $7.09 million, or $10,000 for each of the 709 invoices Pratt   Whitney submitted in
1989 and later under the contracts. Both the DOJ and UTC have appealed the decision. Should the government ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which
a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid.      In December 2008, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a
contract claim against Sikorsky to recover overpayments the DOD alleges it has incurred since January 2003 in connection with cost accounting changes approved by the DOD and implemented by Sikorsky in 1999 and 2006. These changes relate to the
calculation of material overhead rates in government contracts. The DOD claimed that Sikorsky s liability is approximately $80 million (including interest). We believe this claim is without merit and intend to appeal.      Except as otherwise noted above, we do not believe that resolution of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of
operations, cash flows or financial condition.       Other Matters       Additional discussion of our environmental, U.S. government contract matters, product performance and other contingent liabilities is included in  Critical Accounting Estimates  and Notes 1, 13 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. For additional discussion of our legal proceedings, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008 (2008 Form 10-K).         
     New Accounting
Pronouncements       In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141(R), which replaces SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations  (SFAS 141). SFAS
141(R) retains the underlying concepts of SFAS 141 in that all business combinations are still required to be accounted for at fair value under the acquisition method of accounting but SFAS 141(R) changed the method of applying the acquisition
method in a number of significant aspects. Acquisition costs will generally be expensed as incurred; noncontrolling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date; in-process research and development will be recorded at fair value as
an indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date, until either abandoned or completed, at which point the useful lives will be determined; restructuring costs associated with a business combination will generally be expensed subsequent
to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally will affect income tax expense. SFAS 141(R) is effective on a prospective basis for all business
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period subsequent to December 15, 2008, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies.
SFAS 141(R) amends SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  (SFAS 109) such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the
effective date of SFAS 141(R) would also apply the provisions of SFAS 141(R). Early adoption was not permitted. Upon adoption, SFAS 141(R) will not have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations; however, any business
combination entered into after the adoption may significantly impact our financial position and results of operations when compared to acquisitions accounted for under existing U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and result in more
earnings volatility and generally lower earnings due to the expensing of deal costs and restructuring costs of acquired companies. Also, since we have significant acquired deferred tax assets for which full valuation allowances were recorded at the
acquisition date, SFAS 141(R) could significantly affect the results of operations if changes in the valuation allowances occur subsequent to adoption. As of December 31, 2008, such deferred tax valuation allowances amounted to $278 million.
For additional discussion on deferred tax valuation allowances, refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2008 Form 10-K.      In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51  (SFAS 160). This statement is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within
those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008, with earlier adoption prohibited. This statement requires the recognition of a noncontrolling interest (minority interest) as equity in the consolidated financial statements and
separate from the parent s equity. The amount of net income attributable to the  

21   

noncontrolling interest will be included in consolidated net income on the face of the income statement. It also amends certain of ARB No. 51 s
consolidation procedures for consistency with the requirements of SFAS 141(R). This statement also includes expanded disclosure requirements regarding the interests of the parent and its noncontrolling interest. We have evaluated this new
statement and have determined that the statement will not have a significant impact on the reporting of our financial position and results of operations.      In December 2007, the EITF issued Issue No. 07-1,  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements.  This Issue is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim
periods within those fiscal years, and shall be applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date. This Issue requires that transactions with third parties (i.e., revenue
generated and costs incurred by the partners) should be reported in the appropriate line item in each company s financial statement pursuant to the guidance in EITF Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net
as an Agent.  This Issue also includes enhanced disclosure requirements regarding the nature and purpose of the arrangement, rights and obligations under the arrangement, accounting policy, amount and income statement classification of
collaboration transactions between the parties. The collaborator share of revenue was approximately $1.1 billion, $.9 billion and $.8 billion for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Costs associated with engine programs under collaboration agreements
are expensed as incurred. Under this Issue, revenues would be increased by these amounts with an offsetting increase to cost of sales in order to reflect the impact of the collaboration arrangements on a gross basis.      In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157,  which delays the effective date of SFAS No. 157,  Fair
Value Measurements,  (SFAS 157) for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, with the exception of the application
of the statement to non-recurring nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities. This FSP defers the effective date of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years for items within
the scope of this FSP. Refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on fair value measurements. We have evaluated this new FSP and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination
or reporting of our financial results.      In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133  (SFAS 161). This statement is intended to improve transparency in financial reporting by requiring enhanced disclosures of an entity s derivative instruments and hedging activities
and their effects on the entity s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161 applies to all derivative   
   
 instruments within the scope of SFAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (SFAS 133) as well as related hedged
items, bifurcated derivatives, and nonderivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments. Entities with instruments subject to SFAS 161 must provide more robust qualitative disclosures and expanded quantitative
disclosures. SFAS 161 is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application permitted. We are currently evaluating the disclosure implications
of this statement; however, the new statement will not have an impact on the determination of our financial results.      In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No.
FAS 142-3,  Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.  This FSP amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset
under SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS 142). The objective of this FSP is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS 142 and the period of expected cash
flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS 141(R), and other principles of GAAP. This FSP applies to all intangible assets, whether acquired in a business combination or otherwise, and shall be effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim      periods within those fiscal years and applied prospectively to intangible
assets acquired after the effective date. Early adoption is prohibited. We have evaluated this new FSP and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial results.      In November 2008, the EITF issued Issue No. 08-6,  Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations.  This Issue is effective on a prospective basis in
fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years, consistent with the effective dates of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160. Earlier application by an entity that has previously adopted an
alternative accounting policy is not permitted. This Issue addresses the impact that SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 might have on the accounting for equity method investments, including how the initial carrying value of an equity method investment should
be determined, how it should be tested for impairment, and how changes in classification from equity method to cost method should be treated. We are currently evaluating this new Issue and anticipate that it will not have a significant impact on the
reporting of our results of operations.      In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit
Plan Assets.  This FSP amends SFAS No. 132 (revised 2003),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits,  to provide guidance on an employer s disclosures about plan assets of a defined
benefit pension or other  

22   

postretirement plan on investment policies and strategies, major categories of plan assets, inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of
plan assets and significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. This FSP shall be effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009, with earlier application permitted. Upon initial application, the provisions of this FSP are not
required for earlier periods that are presented for comparative purposes. We are currently evaluating the disclosure requirements of this new FSP.       Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results       This annual report contains statements which, to the extent they are not
statements of historical or present fact, constitute  forward-looking statements  under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public.
These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management s current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be
identified by the use of words such as  believe,   expect,   plans,   strategy,   prospects,   estimate,   project,   target,   anticipate, 
 guidance  and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include, among others, statements relating to:       

future revenues, earnings, cash flow, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance;      

the effect of economic conditions in the United States and globally, including the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;      

new business opportunities;      

restructuring costs and savings;      

the scope, nature or impact of acquisition activity and integration into our businesses;      

the development, production and support of advanced technologies and new products and services;      

the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;      

the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements;      

the outcome of contingencies;      

future repurchases of common stock;      

future levels of indebtedness and capital spending; and      

pension plan assumptions and future contributions.         All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008 includes important
information as to these factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements   
   
 in the  Business  section under the headings  General,   Description of Business by Segment  and  Other Matters Relating
to our Business as a Whole  and in the  Risk Factors  and  Legal Proceedings  sections. For additional information identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking
statements, see our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time.       Management s Report
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting       The management of UTC is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Management has assessed the
effectiveness of UTC s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework.  Management concluded that based on its assessment, UTC s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. The effectiveness of UTC s internal control
over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.           

/s/ Louis R.
Ch nevert    
 
     Louis R. Ch nevert    
 
   President and Chief Executive Officer    

/s/ Gregory J.
Hayes    
 
     Gregory J. Hayes    
 
   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

/s/ Margaret M.
Smyth    
 
     Margaret M. Smyth    
 
   Vice President, Controller    

23   

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of United Technologies Corporation:       In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of changes in shareowners  equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for these financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.         
    As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Corporation changed the manner in which it accounts for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in 2006 and 2007 and the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions in 2007. As discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Corporation adopted FASB Statement No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements,  as of January 1, 2008.      A
corporation s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A corporation s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the corporation are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the corporation s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.       

24   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS  
      
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         

25   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
       
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         

26   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
      
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         

27   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN
SHAREOWNERS  EQUITY        
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         

28   

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements             Note 1. Summary of Accounting Principles       The preparation of financial
statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ from those estimates.        Consolidation.   The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of UTC and our controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions have been
eliminated.        Cash and Cash Equivalents.   Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term cash investments that
are highly liquid in nature and have original maturities of three months or less.      On occasion, we are required to maintain cash deposits with certain
banks in respect to contractual obligations related to acquisitions or divestitures or other legal obligations. As of December 31, 2008, the amount of restricted cash was approximately $310 million, of which approximately $35 million is
included in current assets and $275 million is included in long-term assets. Restricted cash as of December 31, 2007 was not significant.        Accounts Receivable.   Current and long-term accounts receivable include retainage of $154 million and $121 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and unbilled receivables of $852 million and $643 million in 2008 and 2007,
respectively.      Retainage represents amounts that, pursuant to the applicable contract, are not due until project completion and acceptance by the customer.
Unbilled receivables represent revenues that are not currently billable to the customer under the terms of the contract. These items are expected to be collected in the normal course of business. Long-term accounts receivable are included in other
assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.        Marketable Equity Securities.   Equity securities that have a readily determinable fair value and
that we do not intend to trade are classified as available for sale and carried at fair value. Unrealized holding gains and losses are recorded as a separate component of shareowners  equity, net of deferred income taxes.        Inventories and Contracts In Progress.   Inventories and contracts in progress are stated at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value and are
primarily based on first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost methods; however, certain subsidiaries use the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. If inventories that were valued using the LIFO method had been valued under the FIFO method, they would
have been higher by $176 million and $173 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
    Costs accumulated against specific contracts or orders are at
actual cost. Inventory in excess of requirements for contracts and current or anticipated orders have been reserved as appropriate. Manufacturing costs are allocated to current production and firm contracts.        Fixed Assets.   Fixed assets are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed over the assets  useful lives using the straight-line method, except for
aerospace assets acquired prior to January 1, 1999, which are depreciated using accelerated methods.        Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.   Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized. Goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets are subject to annual impairment testing using the guidance and criteria described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  This testing compares carrying
values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value. During 2008, we were not required to record any impairment on goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles.      Intangible assets other than goodwill consist of service portfolios, patents and trademarks, customer relationships and other intangible assets. Useful lives of finite
lived intangible assets are estimated based upon the nature of the intangible asset and the industry in which the intangible asset is used. Estimated useful lives of service portfolios generally range from 5 to 30 years. Estimated useful lives of
patents and finite-lived trademarks range from 3 to 40 years. Estimated useful lives of customer relationships and other assets range from 2 to 32 years. These intangible assets are amortized based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of
the intangible assets are consumed. If a pattern of economic benefit cannot be reliably determined, a straight-line amortization method is used.        Other Long-Lived Assets.   We evaluate the potential impairment of other long-lived assets when appropriate. If the carrying value of assets exceeds the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows, the carrying value of
the asset is written down to fair value.        Income Taxes.   In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying our
income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management s evaluation of the facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. For those tax
positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full
knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest
has also been recognized.   

29   

We adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, 
(FIN 48) on January 1, 2007. As a result of this adoption, we recognized a charge of approximately $19 million to the January 1, 2007 retained earnings balance. We recognize interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest
expense. Penalties, if incurred, would be recognized as a component of income tax expense.        Revenue Recognition.   Sales under government and
commercial fixed-price contracts and government fixed-price-incentive contracts are recorded at the time deliveries are made or, in some cases, on a percentage-of-completion basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as work is
performed.      Sales under elevator and escalator sales, installation and modernization contracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method.
     Losses, if any, on contracts are provided for when anticipated. Loss provisions on original equipment contracts are recognized to the extent that
estimated inventoriable manufacturing, engineering, product warranty and product performance guarantee costs exceed the projected revenue from the products contemplated under the contractual arrangement. For new commitments, we generally record loss
provisions at the earlier of contract announcement or contract signing. For existing commitments, anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in the period in which losses become evident. Products contemplated under contractual arrangement
include products purchased under contract and, in the large commercial engine business, future highly probable sales of replacement parts required by regulation that are expected to be purchased subsequently for incorporation into the original
equipment. Revenue projections used in determining contract loss provisions are based upon estimates of the quantity, pricing and timing of future product deliveries. Losses are recognized on shipment to the extent that inventoriable manufacturing
costs, estimated warranty costs and product performance guarantee costs exceed revenue realized. Contract accounting requires estimates of future costs over the performance period of the contract as well as estimates of award fees and other sources
of revenue. These estimates are subject to change and result in adjustments to margins on contracts in progress. The extent of progress toward completion on our long-term commercial aerospace equipment and helicopter contracts is measured using
units of delivery. In addition, we use the cost-to-cost method for development contracts in the aerospace businesses and for elevator and escalator sales, installation and modernization contracts in the commercial businesses. For long-term
aftermarket contracts, revenue is recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the contract. We review our cost estimates on significant contracts   
   
 on a quarterly basis, and for others, no less frequently than annually or when circumstances change and warrant a modification to a previous estimate.
Adjustments to contract loss provisions are recorded in earnings upon identification.      Service sales, representing aftermarket repair and maintenance
activities, are recognized over the contractual period or as services are performed. In the commercial businesses, revenue is generally recognized on a straight line basis. In the aerospace businesses, revenue is generally recognized in proportion
to cost.      Revenues from engine programs under collaboration agreements are recorded as earned and the collaborator share of revenue is recorded as a
reduction of revenue at that time. The collaborator share of revenues under Pratt   Whitney s engine programs was approximately $1.1 billion, $.9 billion and $.8 billion for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Costs associated with
engine programs under collaboration agreements are expensed as incurred. The collaborator share of program costs is recorded as a reduction of the related expense item at that time.        Research and Development.   Research and development costs not specifically covered by contracts and those related to the company sponsored share of research and development activity in connection with
cost-sharing arrangements are charged to expense as incurred. Government research and development support, not associated with specific contracts, is recorded as a reduction to research and development expense in the period earned. Repayment, if
any, is in the form of future royalties and is conditioned upon the achievement of certain financial targets.      Research and development costs incurred
under contracts with customers are expensed as incurred and are reported as a component of cost of products sold. Revenue from such contracts is recognized as product sales when earned.        Foreign Exchange and Hedging Activity.   We conduct business in many different currencies and, accordingly, are subject to the inherent risks associated with foreign exchange rate movements. The financial
position and results of operations of substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at the
exchange rates existing at the respective balance sheet dates, and income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates during the respective periods. The aggregate effects of translating the balance sheets of these subsidiaries are
deferred as a separate component of Shareowners  Equity.   

30   

We have used derivative instruments, including swaps, forward contracts and options, to manage certain foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price
exposures. Derivative instruments are viewed as risk management tools by us and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. Derivatives used for hedging purposes may be designated and effective as a hedge of the identified risk exposure at the
inception of the contract.      All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives used to hedge
foreign-currency-denominated balance sheet items are reported directly in earnings along with offsetting transaction gains and losses on the items being hedged. Derivatives used to hedge forecasted cash flows associated with foreign currency
commitments or forecasted commodity purchases may be accounted for as cash flow hedges, as deemed appropriate. Gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings in
a manner that matches the timing of the earnings impact of the hedged transactions. The ineffective portion of all hedges, if any, is recognized currently in earnings.        Environmental.   Environmental investigatory, remediation, operating and maintenance costs are accrued when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The
most likely cost to be incurred is accrued based on an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to each individual site, including existing technology, current laws and regulations and prior remediation experience. Where no amount within
a range of estimates is more likely, the minimum is accrued. For sites with multiple responsible parties, we consider our likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation costs and the ability of the other parties to fulfill their
obligations in establishing a provision for those costs. Liabilities with fixed or reliably determinable future cash payments are discounted. Accrued environmental liabilities are not reduced by potential insurance reimbursements.        Asset Retirement Obligations.   We record the fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets in the period in
which it is determined to exist, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. Upon initial recognition of a liability, we capitalize the cost of the asset retirement obligation by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived
asset. Over time, the liability is increased for changes in its present value and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. We have determined that conditional legal obligations exist for certain of our worldwide
owned and leased facilities related primarily to building materials. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the outstanding liability for asset retirement obligations was $163 million and $171 million, respectively.        Pension and Postretirement Obligations.   In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statement Nos. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  (SFAS 158). This statement   
   
 requires balance sheet recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of pension and postretirement benefit plans. Under SFAS 158, actuarial gains and
losses, prior service costs or credits, and any remaining transition assets or obligations that have not been recognized under previous accounting standards must be recognized in Accumulated Other Non-Shareowners  Changes in Equity, net of tax
effects, until they are amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. SFAS 158 was effective for publicly-held companies for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006, except for the measurement date provisions, which were effective
for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Based on the funded status of our plans as of December 31, 2006, the adoption of SFAS 158 decreased total assets by approximately $2.4 billion, decreased total liabilities by approximately
$549 million and reduced total shareowners  equity by approximately $1.8 billion, net of taxes. SFAS 158 also requires the measurement date (the date at which plan assets and the benefit obligation are measured) to be the company s fiscal
year end. We early-adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 effective January 1, 2007. The majority of our pension and postretirement plans previously used a November 30 measurement date. All plans are now measured as of
December 31, consistent with our company s fiscal year end. The non-cash effect of the adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 increased shareowners  equity by approximately $425 million and decreased long-term
liabilities by approximately $620 million in 2007. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not affect our results of operations.       Note 2. Business Acquisitions,
Goodwill and Intangible Assets         Business Acquisitions.   Our investments in businesses in 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled $1.4 billion, $2.3
billion and $1.0 billion, including debt assumed of $196 million, $300 million and $138 million, respectively.      The 2008 investments consisted primarily of
a number of small acquisitions in our commercial businesses. The 2007 investments consisted principally of the acquisition of Initial Electronic Security Group (IESG), a division of Rentokil Initial, plc, and Marioff Corporation, Oy (Marioff) both
now part of the UTC Fire   Security segment, and a number of small acquisitions in both the commercial and aerospace businesses.      On July 2,
2007, we completed the acquisition of IESG with the exception of the French operations, the acquisition of which was completed on December 27, 2007 after receiving regulatory approval. The total purchase price was approximately $1.2 billion
including approximately $250 million of debt assumed. We recorded approximately $1.0 billion of goodwill and approximately $300 million of identified intangible assets in connection with this acquisition. The acquisition of IESG enhances UTC
Fire   Security s scale and capability in the electronic security business in key markets where we have a significant presence. IESG sells  

31   

integrated security systems, intrusion detection, closed circuit television, access control and security software. It is headquartered in the United Kingdom,
with operations in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States and France.      On August 30, 2007, we completed the acquisition of Marioff, a
global provider of water mist fire suppression systems for land and marine applications, for approximately $348 million. We recorded approximately $250 million of goodwill and approximately $70 million of identified intangibles in connection with
this acquisition. The acquisition increases UTC Fire   Security s presence in environmentally friendly water-based suppression systems and will expand the company s product and service offerings.      The 2006 investments in businesses consisted principally of a number of smaller acquisitions including Red Hawk Industries by UTC Fire   Security, Page Group
Ltd. by Hamilton Sundstrand and Longville Group Ltd. and Sensitech, Inc. by Carrier.      The assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses are accounted
for under the purchase method of accounting and recorded at their fair values at the dates of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired was recorded as an increase in goodwill of $825
million in 2008, $1.8 billion in 2007, and $646 million in 2006. The results of operations of acquired businesses have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations beginning as of the effective date of acquisition. The final purchase
price allocation for acquisitions is subject to the finalization of the valuation of certain assets and liabilities, plans for consolidation of facilities and relocation of employees and other integration activities. As a result, preliminary amounts
assigned to assets and liabilities will be subject to revision in future periods.        Goodwill.   The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill,
by segment, are as follows:       
 
      Intangible Assets.   Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of the following:       
    Amortization of intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $363 million and $325
million, respectively. Amortization of these intangible assets for 2009 through 2013 is expected to approximate $280 million per year.       Note 3. Earnings
Per Share        
    The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards,
including stock appreciation rights (SARs) and stock options when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related SARs and options during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have been antidilutive. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the number of stock awards excluded from the computation was 8.9 million. There were no antidilutive
stock awards outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.   

32   

Note 4. Commercial Aerospace Industry Assets and Commitments       We have receivables and other financing assets with commercial aerospace industry customers totaling $2,636 million and $2,586 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Customer financing assets related to commercial aerospace industry customers consist of products under lease of $642 million and notes and leases receivable of $346
million. The notes and leases receivable are scheduled to mature as follows: $34 million in 2009, $34 million in 2010, $12 million in 2011, $10 million in 2012, $13 million in 2013, and $243 million thereafter.      Financing commitments, in the form of secured debt, guarantees or lease financing, are provided to commercial aerospace customers. The extent to which the financing
commitments will be utilized is not currently known, since customers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from other financing sources. We may also arrange for third-party investors to assume a portion of these commitments. If financing
commitments are exercised, debt financing is generally secured by assets with fair market values equal to or exceeding the financed amounts with interest rates established at the time of funding. We also may lease aircraft and subsequently sublease
the aircraft to customers under long-term noncancelable operating leases. In some instances, customers may have minimum lease terms that result in sublease periods shorter than our lease obligation. Lastly, we have made residual value and other
guarantees related to various commercial aerospace customer-financing arrangements. The estimated fair market values of the guaranteed assets equal or exceed the value of the related guarantees, net of existing reserves.      Our commercial aerospace financing and rental commitments as of December 31, 2008 were $1,142 million and are exercisable as follows: $407 million in 2009, $114
million in 2010, $32 million in 2011, $6 million in 2012, $6 million in 2013, and $577 million thereafter. Our financing obligations with customers are contingent upon maintenance of certain levels of financial condition by the customers.
     In addition, we have residual value and other guarantees of $137 million as of December 31, 2008.      We have a 33% interest in International Aero Engines AG (IAE), an international consortium of four shareholders organized to support the V2500 commercial aircraft engine
program. Our interest in IAE is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. IAE may offer customer financing in the form of guarantees, secured debt or lease financing in connection with V2500 engine sales. At December 31, 2008, IAE
had financing commitments of $1,069 million and asset value guarantees of $55 million. Our share of IAE s financing commitments and asset value guarantees was approximately $365 million at December 31, 2008. In addition,

IAE had lease obligations under long-term noncancelable leases of approximately $296 million, on an undiscounted basis, through 2020 related to aircraft,
which are subleased to customers under long-term leases. These aircraft have fair market values, which approximate the financed amounts, net of reserves. The shareholders of IAE have guaranteed IAE s financing arrangements to the extent of
their respective ownership interests. In the event of default by a shareholder on certain of these financing arrangements, the other shareholders would be proportionately responsible.      Reserves related to receivables and financing assets were $149 million and $172 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Reserves related to financing commitments and guarantees were $30 million and
$71 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       Note 5. Inventories and Contracts in Progress        
    Raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods are net of valuation reserves of $497 million and $471 million as
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, inventory also includes capitalized research and development costs of $833 million and $740 million, respectively, related to certain aerospace programs. These
capitalized costs will be liquidated as production units are delivered to the customer. The capitalized contract research and development costs within inventory principally relate to capitalized costs on Sikorsky s CH-148 contract with the
Canadian government. The CH-148 is a derivative of the H-92, a military variant of the S-92.      Contracts in progress principally relate to elevator and
escalator contracts and include costs of manufactured components, accumulated installation costs and estimated earnings on incomplete contracts.   

33   

Our sales contracts in many cases are long-term contracts expected to be performed over periods exceeding twelve months. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately
66% and 63%, respectively, of total inventories and contracts in progress have been acquired or manufactured under such long-term contracts, a portion of which is not scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months.       Note 6. Fixed Assets        
    Depreciation expense was $865 million in 2008, $770 million in 2007 and $724 million in 2006.       Note 7. Accrued Liabilities        
       
     Note 8. Borrowings and Lines of Credit       Short-term borrowings consist
of the following:       
    The weighted-average interest rates applicable to short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2008 and
2007 were 5.3% and 7.2%, respectively. At December 31, 2008, approximately $2.0 billion was available under short-term lines of credit with local banks at our various domestic and international subsidiaries.      At December 31, 2008, we had two committed credit agreements from banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $2.5 billion. One credit commitment is a $1.5
billion revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2008, there were no borrowings under this revolving credit agreement, which expires in October 2011. We also have a $1.0 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement that is available
for general funding purposes, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $460 million had been borrowed under this revolving credit agreement. This agreement expires in November 2011. As of December 31, 2008, the
undrawn portions of both the $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement and $1.0 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement were available to serve as backup facilities for the issuance of commercial paper. In December 2008, we increased our
maximum commercial paper borrowing authority from $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion. We generally use our commercial paper borrowings for general corporate purposes, including the funding of potential acquisitions and repurchases of our stock.
     In December 2008, we issued $1.25 billion of long-term debt, the proceeds of which were used primarily to repay commercial paper borrowings maturing
between December 15, 2008 and January 21, 2009. A portion of the net proceeds from the offering was also used to repay approximately $180 million of the outstanding borrowings under our multicurrency revolving credit facility. The
remainder of the net proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes. Pending use, we have invested the remaining available net proceeds in short-term interest bearing obligations. The terms of the long-term debt issued in December 2008 were as
follows:       

34   

We may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, at our option at any time at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the
notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis at the adjusted treasury rate plus 50 basis
points. The redemption price will also include interest accrued to the date of redemption on the principal balance of the notes being redeemed.      In May
2008, we issued $1.0 billion of long-term debt, the proceeds of which were primarily used for general corporate purposes, including financing acquisitions and repurchases of our stock. The terms of the long-term debt issued in May 2008 were as
follows:       
    We may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, at our option at any time at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal
to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual
basis at the adjusted treasury rate plus 25 basis points. The redemption price will also include interest accrued to the date of redemption on the principal balance of the notes being redeemed.      In December 2007, we issued $1.0 billion of long-term debt, the proceeds of which were primarily used to repay commercial paper borrowings. The terms of the long-term
debt issued in December 2007 were as follows:       
    We may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, at our option at any time at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal
to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual
basis at the adjusted treasury rate plus 25 basis points. The redemption price will also include interest accrued to the date of redemption on the principal balance of the notes being redeemed.   
    In May 2006, we issued $1.1 billion of long-term debt, the
proceeds of which were used to repay commercial paper borrowings. The long-term debt issued in May 2006 is comprised of two series of notes as follows:       
    In February 2009, we redeemed all of the outstanding $500 million in notes due in 2009 at a redemption price in
U.S. dollars equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus interest accrued. We may redeem the notes due in 2036, in whole or in part, at our option at any time, at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal to the greater of 100% of the principal
amount of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis at the adjusted treasury rate plus
15 basis points. The redemption price will also include interest accrued to the date of redemption on the principal balance of the notes being redeemed. The three month LIBOR rate as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was approximately 1.4%, and
4.7%, respectively.      In April 2005, we issued $2.4 billion of long-term debt, the proceeds of which were used primarily to support the funding of the Kidde
acquisition. The long-term debt is comprised of three series of notes as follows:       
    We may redeem the notes of any series, in whole or in part, at our option at any time, at a redemption price in
U.S. dollars equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount of the notes of the series to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes of the series to be redeemed as
described below, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis, at the adjusted treasury rate described below plus 10 basis points for the 4.375% notes, 15 basis points for the 4.875% notes and 15 basis points for the 5.400% notes. In each
case, the redemption price will also include interest accrued to the date of redemption on the principal balance of the notes being redeemed.   

35   

Total long-term debt consists of the following:       
    Included within the U.S. dollar denominated debt reflected above are project financing obligations in the amount of
$193 million associated with the sale of rights to unbilled revenues related to the ongoing activity of an entity recently acquired by Carrier. Principal payments required on long-term debt for the next five years are: $1,116 million in 2009, $1,133
million in 2010, $539 million in 2011, $503 million in 2012, and $3 million in 2013. The percentage of total debt at floating interest rates was 15% and 18% at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      In July 2007, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC for an indeterminate amount of securities for future issuance, subject to our internal
limitations on the amount of debt to be issued under this shelf registration statement.         
     Note 9. Taxes on Income        
    Future income taxes represent the tax effects of transactions, which are reported in different periods for tax and
financial reporting purposes. These amounts consist of the tax effects of temporary differences between the tax and financial reporting balance sheets and tax carryforwards. Pursuant to SFAS 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  current and
non-current future income tax benefits and payables within the same tax jurisdiction are generally offset for presentation in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   

36   

The tax effects of net temporary differences and tax carryforwards which gave rise to future income tax benefits and payables at December 31, 2008 and
2007 are as follows:       
    Valuation allowances have been established primarily for tax credit, tax loss carryforwards, and certain foreign
temporary differences to reduce the future income tax benefits to expected realizable amounts. Of the total valuation allowance amount of $698 million, $278 million was established in purchase accounting, relating primarily to the purchase of
Chubb. Upon the January 1, 2009 adoption of SFAS 141(R), changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally will affect income tax expense including those associated with
acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of SFAS 141(R).      The sources of income from continuing operations before income taxes and
minority interests are:       
    U.S. income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. It is not
practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable. Our intention is to reinvest these earnings permanently or to repatriate the earnings only when it is   
   
 tax effective to do so. Accordingly, we believe that U.S. tax on any earnings that might be repatriated would be substantially offset by U.S. foreign tax
credits.      Differences between effective income tax rates and the statutory U.S. federal income tax rates are as follows:       
    The effective tax rates for 2008, 2007 and 2006 reflect the tax benefits associated with lower tax rates on
international earnings, which we intend to permanently reinvest outside the United States. The 2008 effective tax rate reflects $62 million of tax expense reductions, principally related to the resolution of disputes with the Appeals Division of the
IRS for tax years 2000 through 2003.      The 2007 effective tax rate reflects approximately $80 million of tax expense reductions, principally relating to
re-evaluation of our liabilities and contingencies based upon global examination activity including IRS completion of 2000 through 2003 examination fieldwork and related protest filing, and development of claims for research and development tax
credits. Principal adverse tax impacts to the 2007 effective tax rate related to the EU Fine and enacted tax law changes outside the United States.      In
2006, a residual disputed issue related to the 1999 disposition of a business segment was settled with the Appeals Division of the IRS and was reviewed by the U.S. Congress Joint Committee on Taxation. The settlement resulted in an approximately $35
million reduction in tax expense.      In the normal course of business, various tax authorities examine us, including the IRS. The IRS examination of tax
years 2004 and 2005 is ongoing. Although the outcome of these matters cannot be currently determined, we believe adequate provision has been made for any potential unfavorable financial statement impact.      At December 31, 2008, tax credit carryforwards, principally state and federal, were $1,125 million, of which $541 million expire as follows: $23 million expire from
2009 2013, $403 million from 2014 2018, and $115 million from 2019 2028.      At December 31, 2008, tax loss carryforwards, principally
state and foreign, were $2,726 million, of which $843 million expire as follows: $452 million from 2009-2013, $151 million from 2014-2018, and $240 million from 2019-2028.   

37   

As disclosed in Note 1, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007. At December 31, 2008, we had gross tax-effected unrecognized tax
benefits of $773 million of which $710 million, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, we recorded interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $39
million, $56 million, and $38 million, respectively. Total accrued interest at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $161 million and $174 million, respectively. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax
benefits for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:       
    Included in the balances at December 31, 2008 and 2007, are $63 million of tax positions whose tax
characterization is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of tax return inclusion. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the timing would not impact the annual effective tax
rate but could accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.      We conduct business globally and, as a result, UTC or one or
more of our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including such
major jurisdictions as Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or
non-U.S. income tax examinations for years before 1998.      It is reasonably possible that over the next twelve months the amount of unrecognized tax benefits
may change within a range of a net decrease of $175 million to a net increase of $50 million resulting from additional worldwide uncertain tax positions, from the re-evaluation of current uncertain tax positions arising from developments in
examinations, in appeals, or in the courts, or from the closure of tax statutes. Not included in the range is $266 million of tax benefits that we have claimed related to a 1998 German reorganization. These tax benefits are currently being reviewed
by the German Tax Office in the course of an audit of tax years 1999 to 2000. In 2008 the German Federal Tax Court denied benefits to another taxpayer in a case involving a German tax law relevant to our reorganization. The determination of the
German   
   
 Federal Tax Court on this other matter has been appealed to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) to determine if the underlying German tax law is violative of
European Union (EU) principles. It is our position that it is more likely than not that the relevant German tax law is violative of EU principles and we have not accrued tax expense for this matter. As developments in the pending ECJ case warrant,
it may become necessary for us to accrue for this matter, and related interest.       Note 10. Employee Benefit Plans       We sponsor numerous domestic and foreign employee benefit plans, which are discussed below.      As disclosed in Note 1, we adopted the recognition provisions of SFAS 158 in 2006. In addition, we early-adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 effective January 1, 2007. Accordingly, we use a
December 31 measurement date for our pension and postretirement plans. Prior to 2007, we used a November 30 measurement date for a majority of our pension and postretirement plans.        Employee Savings Plans.   We sponsor various employee savings plans. Our contributions to employer sponsored defined contribution plans were $212 million,
$200 million and $205 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      Our non-union domestic employee savings plan uses an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(ESOP) for employer contributions. External borrowings, guaranteed by us and reported as debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, were used by the ESOP to fund a portion of its purchase of ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) from
us. On November 6, 2003, the Trustee and we effected the conversion of all 10.6 million outstanding shares of ESOP Preferred Stock into 85 million shares of common stock. At the time of the conversion, each share of ESOP Preferred
Stock was convertible into four shares of common stock, had a guaranteed minimum value of $65, a $4.80 annual dividend and was redeemable by us at any time for $65 per share. Because of its guaranteed value, the ESOP Preferred Stock was classified
outside of Shareowners  Equity. Beginning with the December 31, 2003 balance sheet, common stock held by the ESOP and committed to employees is classified as permanent equity because it no longer has a guaranteed value. Common stock held
by the ESOP is included in the average number of common shares outstanding for both basic and diluted earnings per share.      Shares of common stock are
allocated to employees  ESOP accounts at fair value on the date earned. Cash dividends on common stock held by the ESOP are used for debt service payments. Participants receive additional shares in lieu of cash dividends. As ESOP debt service
payments are made, common stock is released from an unreleased shares account. ESOP debt  

38   

may be prepaid or re-amortized to either increase or decrease the number of shares released so that the value of released shares equals the value of plan
benefit. We may also, at our option, contribute additional common stock or cash to the ESOP. At December 31, 2008, 38.4 million common shares had been allocated to employees, leaving 24.6 million unallocated common shares in the ESOP
Trust, with an approximate fair value of $1.3 billion.        Pension Plans.   We sponsor both funded and unfunded domestic and foreign defined
benefit pension plans that cover the majority of our employees.       
 
    The amounts included in Other in the preceding table reflect the impact of the change in measurement date in 2007, foreign exchange translation, primarily for plans in the United Kingdom and Canada, and amendments to certain domestic plans.
     Qualified domestic pension plan benefits comprise approximately 77% of the projected benefit obligation. Benefits for union employees are generally based
on a stated amount for each year of service. For non-union employees, benefits are generally based on an employee s years of service and compensation near retirement. A cash balance formula was adopted in 2003 for newly hired non-union
employees and for other non-union employees who made a one-time voluntary election to have future benefit accruals determined under this formula. Certain foreign plans, which comprise approximately 21% of the projected benefit obligation, are
considered defined benefit plans for accounting purposes. Nonqualified domestic pension plans provide supplementary retirement benefits to certain employees and are not a material component of the projected benefit obligation.      We contributed $250 million and $150 million of common stock to our domestic defined benefit pension plans during 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $19.6 billion at both
December 31, 2008 and 2007.      The components of the net periodic pension cost are as follows:       

39   

Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income in 2008 are as follows:       

(in millions of dollars)   

Current year actuarial loss   
      
   $   
   6,869   

Amortization of actuarial loss   

(119   
   )    
 
    Current year prior service cost   

13   

Amortization of prior service costs   

(49   
   )    
 
    Amortization of transition obligation   

(1   
   )    
 
    Other   

(111   
   )    

Total recognized in other comprehensive income   

6,602   

Net recognized in net periodic pension cost and other comprehensive income   
      
   $   
   6,818   

The estimated amount that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic pension
cost in 2009 is as follows:       
    Contributions to multiemployer plans were $163 million, $145 million and $132 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.      Major assumptions used in determining the benefit obligation and net cost for pension plans are presented in the following table as
weighted-averages:       
    In determining the expected return on plan assets, we consider the relative weighting of plan assets, the
historical performance of total plan assets and individual asset classes and economic and other indicators of future performance. In addition, we may consult with and consider the opinions of financial and other professionals in developing
appropriate return benchmarks. The 2007 net cost assumptions reflect the early adoption of the measurement change provisions of SFAS 158, as discussed in Note 1.   
    Asset management objectives include maintaining an adequate
level of diversification to reduce interest rate and market risk and to provide adequate liquidity to meet immediate and future benefit payment requirements.      The allocation of pension plan assets is as follows:       
    Our common stock represents approximately 4% and 2% of total plan assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. We review our assets at least quarterly to ensure we are within the targeted asset allocation ranges and, if necessary, asset balances are adjusted back within target allocations.       Estimated Future Contributions and Benefit Payments       We expect to
make contributions of approximately $600 million to our pension plans in 2009, including approximately $400 million to our domestic plans. Contributions do not reflect benefits to be paid directly from corporate assets.      Benefit payments, including amounts to be paid from corporate assets, and reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: $1,174
million in 2009, $1,257 million in 2010, $1,257 million in 2011, $1,302 million in 2012, $1,341 million in 2013, and $7,461 million from 2014 through 2018.   

40   

Postretirement Benefit Plans.   We sponsor a number of postretirement benefit plans that provide health and life benefits to eligible retirees. Such benefits
are provided primarily from domestic plans, which comprise approximately 90% of the benefit obligation. The postretirement plans are primarily unfunded. The allocation of assets in funded plans is approximately 37% equity and 63% fixed income.

The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:       
    Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income in 2008 are as
follows:       

(in millions of dollars)   

Current year actuarial gain   
      
   $   
   (47   
   )    
 
    Amortization of prior service credit   

6   

Total recognized in other comprehensive income   

(41   
   )    

Net recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income   
      
   $   
   7   

The estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit
cost in 2009 include net actuarial gains of $3 million and prior service credits of $2 million.      Major assumptions used in determining the benefit
obligation and net cost for postretirement plans are presented in the following table as weighted-averages:       
    The 2007 net cost assumptions reflect the early adoption of the measurement change provisions of SFAS 158, as
discussed in Note 1.   

41   

Assumed health care cost trend rates are as follows:       
    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:       

2008     One-Percentage-Point   

(in millions of dollars)   
      
  Increase  
      
  Decrease  

Effect on total service and interest cost   
      
  $  
  3  
      
  $  
  (2  
  )   
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  43  
      
  $  
  (38  
  )   

Estimated Future Benefit Payments       Benefit payments, including net amounts to be paid from corporate assets, and reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: $90 million in 2009, $88 million in 2010, $86
million in 2011, $83 million in 2012, $80 million in 2013, and $336 million from 2014 through 2018.        Stock-based Compensation.   We have
long-term incentive plans authorizing various types of market and performance-based incentive awards that may be granted to officers and employees. Prior to April 13, 2005, our long-term incentive plan provided for the annual grant of awards in
an amount not to exceed 2% of the aggregate number of shares of outstanding common stock, treasury shares and potential common stock (as determined by us in the calculation of earnings per share on a diluted basis) for the preceding year. On
April 9, 2008, the shareowners approved an amendment to the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which authorized the delivery of up to an additional 33 million shares of common stock pursuant to awards under the LTIP. The amendment
increased the maximum number of shares of common stock that may be awarded under the LTIP to 71 million shares. As of December 31,   
   
 2008, approximately 43 million shares remain available for awards under the LTIP. The LTIP does not contain an annual award limit. We expect that the
shares awarded on an annual basis will range from 1% to 1.5% of shares outstanding. The LTIP will expire after all shares have been awarded or April 30, 2014, whichever is sooner. Following initial approval of the LTIP on April 13, 2005,
we may not grant any new awards under previously existing equity compensation plans. Under all long-term incentive plans, the exercise price of awards is set on the grant date and may not be less than the fair market value per share on that date.
Generally, awards have a term of ten years and a minimum three-year vesting schedule. In the event of retirement, awards held for more than one year shall immediately become vested and exercisable. In addition, under the LTIP, awards with
performance-based vesting will also generally be subject to a three-year performance measurement period. In the event of retirement before completion of the three-year performance measurement period, awards may remain eligible to vest. We have
historically repurchased shares in an amount at least equal to the number of shares issued under our equity compensation arrangements and expect to continue this policy.      We measure the cost of all share-based payments, including stock options, at fair value on the grant date and recognize this cost in the statement of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, $211 million, $198 million and $180 million, respectively, of compensation cost was recognized in operating results. The associated future income tax benefit recognized was $72 million, $67 million and $58 million for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the amount of cash received from the
exercise of stock options was $163 million, $415 million and $346 million, respectively, with an associated tax benefit realized of $49 million, $174 million and $137 million, respectively. Also, in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R), for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, $32 million, $130 million and $101 million, respectively, of certain tax benefits have been reported as operating cash outflows with corresponding cash inflows from financing activities.   
  At December 31, 2008, there was $151 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested equity awards granted under long-term incentive plans.
This cost is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years.   

42   

A summary of the transactions under all long-term incentive plans for the three years ended December 31, 2008 follows:       

*  
  weighted-average exercise price     

**  
  weighted-average grant stock price                 The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options and stock appreciation rights granted during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $21.16, $19.10 and $15.84, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of
performance share units, which vest upon achieving certain performance metrics, granted during 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $84.01, $71.28 and $63.96, respectively. The total fair value of options vested during the years ended   
   
 December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $144 million, $216 million and $121 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value (which is the amount by
which the stock price exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of exercise) of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $173 million, $575 million and $443 million, respectively.
  
        The following table summarizes information about equity awards
outstanding that are expected to vest and equity awards outstanding that are exercisable at December 31, 2008:       

*  
  weighted-average exercise price per share     

**  
  weighted-average contractual remaining term in years           

43   

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The following table indicates the assumptions used in estimating
fair value for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Because lattice-based option models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs, those ranges are as follows:       
    Expected volatilities are based on the returns of our stock, including implied volatilities from traded options on
our stock for the binomial lattice model. We use historical data to estimate equity award exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model. Separate employee groups and equity award characteristics are considered separately for
valuation purposes. The expected term represents an estimate of the period of time equity awards are expected to remain outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the term structure of interest rates at the time of equity award grant.   
   Note 11. Restructuring       During 2008, we recorded net pre-tax
restructuring and related charges totaling $357 million for new and ongoing restructuring actions. We recorded charges in the segments as follows: Otis $21 million, Carrier $140 million, UTC Fire   Security $63 million, Pratt  
Whitney $116 million, Hamilton Sundstrand $16 million and Eliminations   Other $1 million. The charges include $148 million in cost of sales, $205 million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $4 million in other income. As
described below, these charges relate principally to actions initiated during 2008 and, to a lesser extent, to certain actions initiated in 2007 and 2006.        2008 Actions.   During 2008, we initiated restructuring actions relating to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including selling, general and administrative reductions, principally at Carrier, Pratt   Whitney, and UTC
Fire   Security, and the consolidation of manufacturing facilities. We recorded net pre-tax restructuring and related charges totaling $327 million, including $119 million in cost of sales, $204 million in selling, general and
administrative expenses, and $4 million in other income.      At December 31, 2008, net workforce reductions of approximately 3,900 employees of an
expected 6,300 employees have been completed. The majority of the remaining workforce reductions and all facility-related cost reduction actions, expected to total 1.2 million net square feet of facilities, are targeted for completion during
2009 and 2010.         
    The following table summarizes the accrual balances and utilization by cost type for the 2008 restructuring actions:       
    The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2008 restructuring actions by type:
      
    The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2008 restructuring actions by
segment:       
      2007 Actions.   During 2008, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring and related charges totaling $10
million, including $9 million in cost of sales and $1 million in selling, general and administrative expenses. The 2007 actions relate to ongoing cost reduction efforts including workforce reductions, and the consolidation of manufacturing
facilities.   

44   

As of December 31, 2008, net workforce reductions of approximately 1,700 employees of an expected 1,800 employees have been completed, and 200,000 net square feet of
facilities of an expected 500,000 net square feet have been exited. The remaining workforce and facility reduction actions are targeted for completion during 2009.      The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual balances and utilization by cost type for the 2007 programs:       
    The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2007 programs by type:   
   
    The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2007 programs by segment:   

2006 Actions.   During 2008, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring and related charges in the business segments totaling $20 million in cost of sales for the
restructuring actions initiated in 2006. These actions relate to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including selling, general and administrative reductions, workforce reductions and the consolidation of manufacturing facilities. As of
December 31, 2008, we have completed all net workforce reductions of approximately 3,700 employees and exited approximately 800,000 net square feet of facilities. As of December 31, 2008 there were no remaining costs on these actions.
      Note 12. Financial Instruments       We operate
internationally and, in the normal course of business, are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. These fluctuations can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. We
manage our foreign currency transaction risks and some commodity exposures to acceptable limits through the use of derivatives designated as hedges as deemed appropriate.      By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative and other financial instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit
risk of those counterparties. We limit counterparty exposure and concentration of risk by diversifying counterparties. We do not anticipate non-performance by any of these counterparties.      The non-shareowner changes in equity associated with hedging activity for the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       
    Assuming current market conditions continue, of the amount recorded in Shareowners  Equity, a $202 million
pre-tax loss is expected to be reclassified into sales or cost of products sold to reflect the fixed prices obtained from hedging within the next 12 months. Gains and losses recognized in earnings related to the discontinuance or the ineffectiveness
of cash flow and fair value hedges were immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. At December 31, 2008, all derivative contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges mature by December 2010.   

45   

All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of derivatives recorded as assets was $188
million and $365 million, respectively, and the fair value of derivatives recorded as liabilities was $680 million and $43 million, respectively. We use derivatives to hedge forecasted cash flows associated with foreign currency commitments or
forecasted commodity purchases, as deemed appropriate, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges. In addition, from time to time we use derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, which are accounted for as fair value hedges.      The notional amount of foreign exchange contracts hedging foreign currency transactions was $9.9 billion and $12.9 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. The carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments at December 31 are as follows:       
    The above fair values were computed based on comparable transactions, quoted market prices, discounted future cash
flows or an estimate of the amount to be received or paid to terminate or settle the agreement, as applicable.      The values of marketable equity securities
represent our investment in common stock that is classified as available for sale and is accounted for at fair value.      We have outstanding financing and
rental commitments totaling $1,142 million at December 31, 2008. Risks associated with changes in interest rates on these commitments are mitigated by the fact that interest rates are variable during the commitment term and are set at the date
of funding based on current market conditions, the fair value of the underlying collateral and the credit worthiness of the customers. As a result, the fair value of these financings is expected to equal the amounts funded. The fair value of the
commitment itself is not readily determinable and is not considered significant. Additional information pertaining to these commitments is included in Note 4.         
     Note 13. Guarantees  
     We extend a variety of financial guarantees to third parties. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007 the following financial guarantees were outstanding:
      
    We also have obligations arising from sales of certain businesses and assets, including representations and
warranties and related indemnities for environmental, health and safety, tax and employment matters. The maximum potential payment related to these obligations is not a specified amount as a number of the obligations do not contain financial caps.
The carrying amount of liabilities related to these obligations was $150 million and $164 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For additional information regarding the environmental indemnifications, see Note 15.      We accrue for costs associated with guarantees when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The most likely cost to
be incurred is accrued based on an evaluation of currently available facts, and where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, the minimum is accrued. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,  for guarantees issued after December 31, 2002, we record a liability for the fair value of such guarantees in the balance sheet.
     We provide service and warranty policies on our products and extend performance and operating cost guarantees beyond our normal service and warranty
policies on some of our products, particularly commercial aircraft engines. In addition, we incur discretionary costs to service our products in connection with specific product performance issues. Liability for  

46   

performance and operating cost guarantees is based upon future product performance and durability, and is estimated largely based upon historical experience.
Adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience warrant. The changes in the carrying amount of service and product warranties and product performance guarantees for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, are as
follows:       
     Note 14. Fair Value Measurement       In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (SFAS 157), which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and for interim periods within those
years. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the related disclosure requirements. This statement applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.
The statement indicates, among other things, that a fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the
most advantageous market for the asset or liability. SFAS 157 defines fair value based upon an exit price model.      Relative to SFAS 157, the FASB issued
FASB Staff Positions (FSP) FAS 157-1, FAS 157-2, and FAS 157-3. FSP FAS 157-1 amends SFAS 157 to exclude SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases  (SFAS 13), and its related interpretive accounting pronouncements that address leasing
transactions, while FSP FAS 157-2 delays the effective date of the application of SFAS 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value
in the financial statements on a non-recurring basis. FSP FAS 157-3 clarifies the application of SFAS 157 as it relates to the valuation of financial assets in a market that is not active for those financial assets. This FSP is effective immediately
and includes those periods for which financial statements have not been issued. We currently do not have any financial assets that are valued using inactive markets, and as such are not impacted by the issuance of this FSP.      We adopted SFAS 157 as of January 1, 2008, with the exception of the application of the statement to non-recurring nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities.
Non-recurring   
   
 nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities for which we have not applied the provisions of SFAS 157 include those measured at fair value in goodwill
impairment testing, indefinite lived intangible assets measured at fair value for impairment testing, asset retirement obligations initially measured at fair value, and those non-recurring nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially
measured at fair value in a business combination.        Valuation Hierarchy.   SFAS 157 establishes a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of the
inputs to valuation used to measure fair value. This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are quoted
prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, including interest rates,
yield curves and credit risks, or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at
fair value. A financial asset or liability s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.      The following table provides the assets and liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008:       
      Valuation Techniques.   Our available for sale securities include equity investments that are traded in
an active market. They are measured at fair value using closing stock prices from active markets and are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy .  Our derivative assets and liabilities include foreign exchange and commodity
derivatives that are measured at fair value using observable market inputs such as forward rates, interest rates, our own credit risk and our counterparties  credit risks. Based on these inputs, the derivative assets and liabilities are
classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Based on our continued ability to trade securities and enter into forward contracts, we consider the markets for our fair value instruments to be active.   

47   

As of December 31, 2008, there has not been any significant impact to the fair value of our derivative liabilities due to our own credit risk. Similarly, there has
not been any significant adverse impact to our derivative assets based on our evaluation of our counterparties  credit risks.      In February 2007, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  (SFAS 159), which is effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007. This statement permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. This statement also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate
comparisons between entities that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option is elected would be reported in earnings. We have adopted
SFAS 159 and have elected not to measure any additional financial instruments and other items at fair value.       Note 15. Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities         Leases.   We occupy space and use certain equipment under lease arrangements. Rental commitments of $1,650 million at
December 31, 2008 under long-term noncancelable operating leases are payable as follows: $453 million in 2009, $371 million in 2010, $265 million in 2011, $180 million in 2012, $122 million in 2013 and $259 million thereafter. Rent expense was
$504 million in 2008, $437 million in 2007 and $373 million in 2006.      Additional information pertaining to commercial aerospace rental commitments is
included in Note 4.        Environmental.   Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in
the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. As described in Note 1, we have accrued for the costs of environmental remediation activities and periodically reassess these amounts. We believe that the
likelihood of incurring losses materially in excess of amounts accrued is remote. At December 31, 2008, we had $553 million reserved for environmental remediation.        Government.   We are now, and believe that in light of the current U.S. government contracting environment we will continue to be, the subject of one or more U.S. government investigations. If we or one of
our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any of these investigations or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws) the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or
receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could fine and debar us from new U.S. government contracting for a period generally not to exceed three
years. The U.S. government could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud.         
    Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to
audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports, which recommend that certain contract prices should be reduced to comply with various government regulations. Some of these audit reports involved substantial amounts. We have
made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate and continue to litigate certain cases. In addition, we accrue for liabilities associated with those matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The most likely settlement
amount to be incurred is accrued based upon a range of estimates. Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, then we accrued the minimum amount.      As previously disclosed, the Department of Justice (DOJ) sued us in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, claiming that Pratt   Whitney violated the civil False Claims Act and common law. This lawsuit
relates to the  Fighter Engine Competition  between Pratt   Whitney s F100 engine and General Electric s F110 engine. The DOJ alleges that the government overpaid for F100 engines under contracts awarded by the U.S. Air
Force in fiscal years 1985 through 1990 because Pratt   Whitney inflated its estimated costs for some purchased parts and withheld data that would have revealed the overstatements. At trial of this matter, completed in December 2004, the
government claimed Pratt   Whitney s liability to be $624 million. On August 1, 2008, the trial court judge held that the Air Force had not suffered any actual damages because Pratt   Whitney had made
significant price concessions. However, the trial court judge found that Pratt   Whitney violated the False Claims Act due to inaccurate statements contained in the 1983 offer. In the absence of actual damages, the trial
court judge awarded the DOJ the maximum civil penalty of $7.09 million, or $10,000 for each of the 709 invoices Pratt   Whitney submitted in 1989 and later under the contracts. Both the DOJ and UTC have
appealed the decision. Should the government ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which
damages would be paid.      In December 2008, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a contract claim against Sikorsky to recover overpayments the DOD alleges
it has incurred since January 2003 in connection with cost accounting changes approved by the DOD and implemented by Sikorsky in 1999 and 2006. These changes relate to the calculation of material overhead rates in government contracts. The DOD
claimed that Sikorsky s liability is approximately $80 million (including interest). We believe this claim is without merit and intend to appeal.      Except as otherwise noted above, we do not believe that resolution of any of these matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.   

48   

Other.   As described in Note 13, we extend performance and operating cost guarantees beyond our normal warranty and service policies for extended periods on
some of our products. We have accrued our estimate of the liability that may result under these guarantees and for service costs, which are probable and can be reasonably estimated.      We have accrued for environmental investigatory, remediation, operating and maintenance costs, performance guarantees and other litigation and claims based on our estimate of the probable outcome of these matters.
While it is possible that the outcome of these matters may differ from the recorded liability, we believe the resolution of these matters will not have a material impact on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition.      We also have other commitments and contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings, self-insurance programs and matters arising out of the
normal course of business. We accrue contingencies based upon a range of possible outcomes. If no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other, then we accrue the minimum amount.       Note 16. Segment Financial Data       Our operations are classified in six
principal segments. The segments are generally determined based on the management of the businesses and on the basis of separate groups of operating companies, each with general operating autonomy over diversified products and services.   
   Otis  products include elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service sold to customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the
world.         
     Carrier  products include residential, commercial and industrial heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems and equipment, food service
equipment, building automation and controls, HVAC and refrigeration components and installation, retrofit and aftermarket services.       UTC Fire  
Security  products include fire and special hazard and suppression systems and fire fighting equipment, electronic security, monitoring and rapid response systems and service and security personnel for a diversified international customer base
principally in the industrial, commercial and residential property sectors.       Pratt   Whitney  products include commercial, military,
business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, parts and services, industrial gas turbines and space propulsion sold to a diversified customer base, including international and domestic commercial airlines and aircraft leasing companies,
aircraft manufacturers, and U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt   Whitney also provides product support and a full range of overhaul, repair and fleet management services and produces land-based power generation equipment.       Hamilton Sundstrand  provides aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. Aerospace products include power
generation, management and distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units and propeller systems. Industrial products include air compressors,
metering pumps and fluid handling equipment.       Sikorsky  products include military and commercial helicopters, aftermarket helicopter and aircraft
parts and services.   
              Segment Revenues and Operating Profit.   Total revenues by segment include intersegment sales, which are generally made at prices approximating those that the
selling entity is able to obtain on external sales. Segment information for the years ended December 31 is as follows:       

49   

1    
    The asset increase from 2007 to 2008 primarily reflects the increase in cash and cash equivalents held at UTC Corporate.
The asset increase from 2006 to 2007 reflects management s decision to transfer domestic pension asset and liability balances from the segments to UTC Corporate.           Geographic External Revenues and Operating Profit.   Geographic external revenues and operating profits are attributed to the geographic regions based on their location of origin. U.S. external revenues
include export sales to commercial customers outside the United States and sales to the U.S. government, commercial and affiliated customers, which are known to be for resale to customers outside the United States. Long-lived assets are net fixed
assets attributed to the specific geographic regions.       
         Revenues from U.S. operations include export sales as follows:       
 
      Major Customers.   Revenues include sales under prime contracts and subcontracts to the U.S. government, primarily related to Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky products, as follows:       

50   

Selected Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)        
     Comparative Stock Data (Unaudited)        
    Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low prices are based on the Composite Tape
of the New York Stock Exchange. There were approximately 25,408 registered shareholders at December 31, 2008.         

51   

Performance Graph (Unaudited)
      The following graph presents the cumulative total shareholder return for the five years ending December 31, 2008 for our common stock, as
compared to the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index and to the Dow Jones 30 Industrial Average. Our common stock price is a component of both indices. These figures assume that all dividends paid over the five-year period were
reinvested, and that the starting value of each index and the investment in common stock was $100.00 on December 31, 2003.       

52   

Board of
Directors             Louis R. Ch nevert       President and Chief Executive Officer
     United Technologies Corporation       (Diversified Manufacturer)
       George David       Chairman      United Technologies Corporation       (Diversified Manufacturer)
       John V. Faraci       Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer      International Paper       (Paper, Packaging and
Distribution)        Jean-Pierre Garnier       Chief Executive
Officer      Pierre Fabre SA       (Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic
Products)        Jamie S. Gorelick       Partner   
  WilmerHale       (Law Firm)       Former Deputy Attorney General of the United States      Former General Counsel
of the Department of Defense       Carlos M. Gutierrez   (effective March 11, 2009)         Former U.S. Secretary of Commerce      Former Chairman and CEO      Kellogg Company       Edward A. Kangas       Former Chairman and CEO      Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu       (Audit and Tax Services)          
     Charles R. Lee       Retired Chairman and      Co-Chief Executive Officer      Verizon Communications       (Telecommunications)        Richard D. McCormick       Retired Chairman, President and      Chief Executive Officer      US West, Inc.       (Telecommunications)        Harold McGraw III       Chairman, President and      Chief Executive Officer      The McGraw-Hill Companies       (Global Information Services)    
   Richard B. Myers       General, U.S. Air Force (Ret.)      and former Chairman of the      Joint Chiefs of Staff       H. Patrick Swygert       President Emeritus      Howard University       (Educational Institution)        Andr  Villeneuve       Non-Executive Chairman of LIFFE   
   (Part of NYSE Euronext Group)        Christine Todd Whitman
      President      The Whitman Strategy Group       (Management Consulting Firm)       Former EPA Administrator      Former Governor of New Jersey   
 
     Permanent Committees        Audit
Committee       John V. Faraci, Chair      Edward A. Kangas
     Richard D. McCormick      Richard B. Myers      H. Patrick Swygert      Andr  Villeneuve       Committee on Compensation and Executive Development       Jean-Pierre
Garnier, Chair      Jamie S. Gorelick      Edward A. Kangas   
  Charles R. Lee      Richard D. McCormick      Harold McGraw III      H. Patrick Swygert       Executive Committee       George David, Chair      Louis R. Ch nevert      Charles R. Lee      Richard D. McCormick       Finance Committee       Charles R. Lee, Chair      Louis R. Ch nevert      George David      John V. Faraci      Jamie S. Gorelick      Carlos M. Gutierrez ( effective March 11, 2009 )
     Richard B. Myers      Andr  Villeneuve      Christine Todd Whitman         
     Committee on Nominations and Governance       Richard D. McCormick, Chair      John V. Faraci      Jean-Pierre Garnier      Carlos M. Gutierrez ( effective March 11, 2009 )
     Charles R. Lee      Harold McGraw III      Christine Todd Whitman       Public Issues Review Committee       Christine Todd Whitman, Chair      Jean-Pierre Garnier      Jamie S. Gorelick      Harold McGraw III      Richard B. Myers      H. Patrick Swygert      Andr  Villeneuve   

53   

Leadership
            Paul R. Adams       Senior Vice President,      Engineering, Pratt   Whitney       David Adler       President,      Sikorsky Aerospace Services       Alain M. Bellemare       President,      Hamilton
Sundstrand       Richard H. Bennett, Jr.       Vice President,
     Environment, Health   Safety       Anthony C. Black  
     Senior Vice President,      Operations, UTC Fire   Security
      Ari Bousbib       President, Commercial Companies and
Executive Vice President, UTC       J. Thomas Bowler, Jr.       Senior Vice President,      Human Resources and Organization       William M. Brown       President,      UTC Fire  
Security       Louis R. Ch nevert       President and
     Chief Executive Officer       Peter C. Christman, Jr.
      President, Pratt   Whitney Power Systems       Geraud
Darnis       President, Carrier       George David    
  Chairman         
     Pierre Dejoux       President, South Asia Pacific and Gulf, Otis       John J. Doucette
      Vice President and Chief Information Officer       Michael
R. Dumais       Vice President, Operations, Hamilton Sundstrand       Thomas E. Farmer       President, Military Engines, Pratt   Whitney       James E. Geisler       Vice President,      Corporate Strategy and Planning       Charles D. Gill, Jr.       Senior Vice President and General Counsel       Bruno Grob       President, North and East Europe and Africa, Otis       Lindsay Harvey       President, United Kingdom and      Central Europe, Otis       Gregory J. Hayes       Senior Vice President and      Chief Financial Officer       David P. Hess       President, Pratt   Whitney       Kathleen M. Hopko       Vice President, Secretary and      Associate General Counsel       Todd J. Kallman       President, Commercial Engines and Global Services,
Pratt   Whitney         
     Robert F. Leduc       President, Flight Systems and      U.S. Government Classified Programs, Hamilton Sundstrand       Nancy T. Lintner
      Vice President, Communications       James G. Maser  
     President,      Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne       Robert J. McDonough       President, Residential and Light Commercial
     North America, Carrier       J. Michael McQuade    
  Senior Vice President,      Science and Technology       Didier Michaud-Daniel       President, Otis       Raymond J. Moncini       Senior Vice President, Operations, Carrier
      Michael A. Monts       Vice President,      Business Practices       Timothy M. Morris       President, 787 Programs,      Hamilton Sundstrand       Peter Nolan       President, Residential and Light Commercial
International, Carrier       Stephen G. Oswald       President,
Industrial, Hamilton Sundstrand       David E. Parekh       Vice
President, Research and Director, United Technologies Research Center         
     Eric Patry       President, Strategic Initiatives,      UTC Fire   Security       Jeffrey P. Pino       President, Sikorsky       Jothi Purushotaman       Vice President, Operations       Thomas I. Rogan       Vice President, Treasurer       Kelly Romano       President, Building Systems and Services, Carrier
      John Saabas       President, Pratt   Whitney Canada
      Pedro Sainz de Baranda       President, South Europe and
Mediterranean, Otis       Margaret M. Smyth       Vice President,
Controller       Scott D. Starrett       President, Government
Programs, Sikorsky       Tobin J. Treichel       Vice President,
Tax       Joseph E. Triompo       President, Aerospace Power
Systems,      Hamilton Sundstrand       Charles Vo       President, North Asia Pacific, Otis       Gregg Ward       Senior Vice President, Government Affairs       Randal E. Wilcox
      President, North and South America, Otis   

54   

Shareowner
Information        

Corporate Office   

Certifications   

Additional Information   

Direct Registration System    
 
    United Technologies Corporation     United Technologies
Building     Hartford, Connecticut  06101     Telephone:  860.728.7000         This report is made available to
shareowners in advance of the annual meeting of shareowners to be held at 11:00 a.m., April 8, 2009,   in Jupiter, Florida.  The proxy statement will be made available to shareowners on or about February 20, 2009, at which
time proxies for the meeting will be requested.         Information about UTC, including
financial information, can be found at our Web site:  www.utc.com.           Stock
Listing      New York Stock Exchange          Ticker Symbol      UTX          Transfer Agent and Registrar      Computershare Trust Company, N.A., is the transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent for UTC s Common Stock. Questions and communications regarding transfer of stock, replacement of lost
certificates, dividends and address changes, and the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be directed to:         Computershare Trust Company, N.A.     250 Royall Street     Canton, Massachusetts  02021     Telephone:     Within the U.S.:  1.800.488.9281     Outside the U.S.:  1.781.575.2724     Web site:   www.computershare.com/investor          TDD:  1.800.952.9245     Telecommunications device for the hearing impaired.   

UTC has included as Exhibit 31 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2008 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
certificates of its principal executive officers and principal financial officers certifying, among other things, the information contained in the Form 10-K.         Annually UTC submits to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) a certificate of UTC s Chief Executive Officer certifying that he was not aware of any
violation by UTC of NYSE corporate governance listing standards as of the date of the certification.          Dividends      Dividends are usually paid on the 10th day of March, June, September and December.          Electronic Access      Registered shareowners may sign up at the following Web site for electronic access to future annual reports and proxy materials, rather than receiving mailed copies:  www.computershare.com/us/ecomms .  
      Your enrollment is revocable until each year s record date for the annual meeting.
Beneficial shareowners may be able to request electronic access by contacting their broker or bank, or Broadridge Financial Solutions at:      http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/utc.    

Shareowners may obtain a copy of the UTC Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2008 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by writing to:
         Corporate Secretary     United Technologies Corporation     United Technologies Building     Hartford, Connecticut  06101         For additional
information about UTC, please contact Investor Relations at the above corporate office address, or visit our Web site at:   www.utc.com .          Shareowner Information Services      Our Internet and telephone services give shareowners fast access to UTC financial results.  The 24-hour-a-day, toll-free telephone service includes recorded summaries of UTC s quarterly earnings
information and other company news. Callers also may request copies of our quarterly earnings and news releases, by either fax or mail, and obtain copies of the UTC Annual Report and Form 10-K.         To access the service, dial 1.800.881.1914 from any touchtone phone and follow the recorded
instructions.   

If your shares are held in street name through a broker and you are interested in participating in the Direct Registration System, you may
have your broker transfer the shares to Computershare Trust Company, N.A., electronically through the Direct Registration System. Interested investors can request a description of this book-entry form of registration by calling
Shareholder Direct at:  1.800.881.1914.          Environmentally Friendly
Report      This annual report is printed on recycled and recyclable paper.           www.utc.com        www.carrier.com       www.hamiltonsundstrand.com       www.otis.com       www.pw.utc.com       www.sikorsky.com       www.utcfireandsecurity.com       www.utcpower.com     

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 12
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES  OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries  of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21        United Technologies Corporation        Subsidiary and Affiliate Listing        December 31, 2008        

Entity Name    
      
     State/Country of Incorporation     
 
     3206772 Nova Scotia Company    
      
   Canada       
 
     Australia Holdings Inc.    
      
   Delaware       
 
     Beesail Limited    
      
   England       
 
     Carrier Commercial Refrigeration, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier HVACR Investments B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Carrier K ltetechnik Deutschland GmbH    
      
   Germany    
 
     Carrier Sales and Distribution, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier Technologies ULC    
      
   Canada    
 
     Carrier Transicold Pte. Ltd    
      
   Singapore    
 
     Ceesail Limited    
      
   England       
 
     Chubb (UK) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group (International) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group Properties Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group Security Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb International (Netherlands) BV    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Chubb International Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb International Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Investments Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Nederland B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Chubb Overseas Investments Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Security Holdings Australia Limited    
      
   Australia    
 
     Chubb White Peak (UK) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Eagle Services Asia Private Limited    
      
   Singapore       
 
     Empresas Carrier, S. De R L.De C.V.    
      
   Mexico    
 
     Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Hamilton Sundstrand Holdings, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Helicopter Support, Inc.    
      
   Connecticut      
 
     International Comfort Products, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kaysail Limited    
      
   England       
 
     Kidde America Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde Finance Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde Fire Protection Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde Holdings Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde International Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde Technologies Inc. (*)    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde UK    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde UK Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     KNA Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Latin American Holding, Inc.    
      
   Delaware       
 
     Lenel Systems International, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Moonless Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Nippon Otis Elevator Company    
      
   Japan       

Exhibit 21        United Technologies Corporation        Subsidiary and Affiliate Listing        December 31, 2008        

Entity Name    
      
     State/Country of Incorporation     
 
     NSI, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Otis Elevator Company    
      
   New Jersey    
 
     Otis Elevator Korea    
      
   South Korea    
 
     Otis Holdings GmbH   Co. OHG    
      
   Germany    
 
     Otis International Holdings UK Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Otis Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Otis Pacific Holdings B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Otis S.C.S.    
      
   France    
 
     Parkview Treasury Services (UK) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Pilgrim House Group Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Canada Corp.    
      
   Canada    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Canada Holdings Corp.    
      
   Canada    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Canada Leasing, Limited Partnership    
      
   Canada    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Engine Leasing, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Power Systems, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Pratt Aero Limited Partnership    
      
   Canada    
 
     Ratier-Figeac, SAS    
      
   France    
 
     SICLI Holding SAS    
      
   France    
 
     Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Sirius Korea Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Sullair Corporation    
      
   Indiana    
 
     United Technologies Australia Holdings Limited    
      
   Australia    
 
     United Technologies Canada, Ltd    
      
   Canada    
 
     United Technologies Cortran, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     United Technologies Electronic Controls, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     United Technologies Far East Limited    
      
   Hong Kong    
 
     United Technologies Finance (U.K.) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     United Technologies France SAS    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies Holding GmbH    
      
   Germany    
 
     United Technologies Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     United Technologies Holdings S.A.    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies International Corporation-Asia Private Limited    
      
   Singapore    
 
     United Technologies International SAS    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies Luxembourg S.a.r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     United Technologies Paris SNC    
      
   France    
 
     UT (UK) LIMITED    
      
   England    
 
     UT Finance Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UT Luxembourg Holding I S.a.r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     UT Luxembourg Holding II S.a.r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     UT Park View, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UTC Canada Corporation    
      
   Canada    
 
     UTC Fire   Security Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UTC Investments Australia Pty Limited    
      
   Australia    
 
     UTCL Holdings, Limited    
      
   Canada    
 
     UTCL Investments B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     UTX Holdings S.C.S.    
      
   France    

Exhibit 21        United Technologies Corporation        Subsidiary and Affiliate Listing        December 31, 2008        

Entity Name    
      
     State/Country of Incorporation     
 
     White Peak Finance Ireland Limited    
      
   Ireland    
 
     Wytwornia Sprzetu Komunikacyjnego PZL-Rzeszow S.A.    
      
   Poland    
 
     Xizi Otis Elevator Company Limited    
      
   China    
 
     Zardoya Otis, S.A.    
      
   Spain    

*  
  Kidde Technologies, Inc. also conducts business as Kidde Aerospace   Defense, Fenwal Safety Systems and Kidde Dual Spectrum.        Other subsidiaries of the Registrant have been omitted from this listing since, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute a
significant subsidiary.   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 13
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-144830), in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-77991) as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 (No. 333-77991) and in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos.
333-156390, 333-156385, 333-150643, 333-150640, 333-150639, 333-125478, 333-125476, 333-125293, 333-110020, 333-100724, 333-100723, 333-100718, 333-82911, 333-77817, 333-21853, 333-21851, 033-58937, 033-57769 and 033-51385) of United Technologies
Corporation of our report dated February 11, 2009 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareowners, which is incorporated in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 11, 2009 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears on page S-I of this Form 10-K.       

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 14
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as
a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts
and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the
Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all
amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said
attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this
Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ John V. Faraci    
 
  John V. Faraci   

1   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Jean-Pierre Garnier    
 
  Jean-Pierre Garnier   

2   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Jamie S. Gorelick    
 
  Jamie S. Gorelick   

3   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Edward A. Kangas    
 
  Edward A. Kangas   

4   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Charles R. Lee    
 
  Charles R. Lee   

5   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Richard D. McCormick    
 
  Richard D. McCormick   

6   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Harold McGraw III    
 
  Harold McGraw III   

7   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Richard B. Myers    
 
  Richard B. Myers   

8   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ H. Patrick Swygert    
 
  H. Patrick Swygert   

9   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Andr  Villeneuve    
 
  Andr  Villeneuve   

10   

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney       The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J.
HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply
with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K
Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K
Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 9th day of February, 2009.        

/s/ Christine Todd Whitman    
 
  Christine Todd Whitman   

11   

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 15
 dex31.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A )/ 15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Rule 13a-14(a )/ 15d-14(a) Certifications 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Louis R. Ch nevert, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Technologies Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 11, 2009  

/s/ Louis R. Ch nevert    

Louis R. Ch nevert     President and Chief
Executive Officer    

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Gregory J. Hayes, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Technologies Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 11, 2009  

/s/ Gregory J. Hayes    

Gregory J. Hayes     Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer    

Exhibit 31.3        CERTIFICATION       I, Margaret M. Smyth, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Technologies Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 11, 2009  

/s/ Margaret M. Smyth    

Margaret M. Smyth     Vice President,
Controller    

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 16
 dex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Section 1350 Certifications 

Exhibit 32        Section 1350 Certifications        Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
       (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code)       Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States
Code), each of the undersigned officers of United Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), does hereby certify that:      The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the   Form 10-K  ) of the Corporation fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.       

Date: February 11, 2009  

/s/ Louis R. Ch nevert    

Louis R. Ch nevert   

President and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 11, 2009  

/s/ Gregory J. Hayes    

Gregory J. Hayes   

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

Date: February 11, 2009  

/s/ Margaret M. Smyth    

Margaret M. Smyth   

Vice President, Controller   

</EX-32>

<EX-100.INS>
 17
 utx-20081231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-100.INS>

<EX-100.SCH>
 18
 utx-20081231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-100.SCH>

<EX-100.CAL>
 19
 utx-20081231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-100.CAL>

<EX-100.DEF>
 20
 utx-20081231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-100.DEF>

<EX-100.LAB>
 21
 utx-20081231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-100.LAB>

<EX-100.PRE>
 22
 utx-20081231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-100.PRE>

