<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110210_10-K_edgar_data_101829_0001193125-11-029695_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>23953414</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>445604</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4829139</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1742855</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6172368</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>10459550</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>95</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-029695.hdr.sgml : 20110210
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110210062948
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-029695
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110210
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110210

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000101829
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS [3724]
		IRS NUMBER:				060570975
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00812
		FILM NUMBER:		11589176

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		UNITED TECHNOLOGIES BLDG
		STREET 2:		ONE FINANCIAL PLZ
		CITY:			HARTFORD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06101
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8607287000

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED TECHNOLOGIES MICROELECTRONICS CENTER
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19850825

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19841205

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LCOEJrGmzrdvrPDboZAA0yHtJHFEWBLoqnJ/mdueH54eqJJC2qLxZ4NhivIhYWpw
 7eK42x162szzQDh4XINFjg==

 0001193125-11-029695.txt : 20110210

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K

Commission file number 1-812         
        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

DELAWARE   
     
   06 0570975    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)          

One Financial Plaza, Hartford, Connecticut   
     
   06103    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)         Registrant s
telephone number, including area code: (860) 728-7000         
        Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
   Common Stock ($1 par value)   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   (CUSIP 913017 10 9)   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.     Yes          .     No 
         .      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes          .    No          .      Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         .     No         .
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         .    No         .      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one):

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
           (Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes             No         .      The aggregate market value of the
voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates at June 30, 2010 was approximately $60,250,861,135, based on the New York Stock Exchange closing price for such shares on that date. For purposes of this calculation, the Registrant has assumed that
its directors and executive officers are affiliates.      At January 31, 2011, there were 920,456,248 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.      List hereunder documents incorporated by reference and the Part of the Form 10-K into which the document is incorporated:
(1) portions of the United Technologies Corporation 2010 Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and IV hereof; and (2) portions of the United Technologies Corporation Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual
Meeting of Shareowners are incorporated by reference in Part III hereof.       

Table of Contents  

    UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES         
 Index to Annual Report        on Form 10-K for        Year Ended December 31, 2010        

Page   

PART I    

3  

Item 1. Business:    

3  

Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results    

9  

Item 1A. Risk Factors    

10  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments    

14  

Item 2. Properties    

15  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings    

15  

Item 4.  (Removed and Reserved)   

17  

PART II    

17  

Item 
5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

17  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data    

17  

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

17  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

17  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

18  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

18  

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures    

18  

PART III    

18  

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

18  

Item 11. Executive Compensation    

20  

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

20  

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

20  

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

20  

PART IV    

20  

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

20  

SIGNATURES    

24  
        
         2   

Table of Contents  

    UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Annual Report on Form 10-K for    
   Year Ended December 31, 2010       Whenever reference is made in this Form 10-K to specific sections of UTC s 2010 Annual Report to Shareowners (2010 Annual Report), those sections are incorporated herein by reference. United Technologies
Corporation and its subsidiaries  names, abbreviations thereof, logos, and product and service designators are all either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries. Names,
abbreviations of names, logos, and product and service designators of other companies are either the registered or unregistered trademarks or tradenames of their respective owners. As used herein, the terms  we,   us, 
 our  or  UTC,  unless the context otherwise requires, mean United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries.        
 PART I        

Item 1.   
   Business          General    
  United Technologies Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1934. UTC provides high technology products and services to the building systems
and aerospace industries worldwide. Growth is attributable to the internal development of our existing businesses and to acquisitions. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in our 2010 Annual Report, especially the information contained therein under the heading  Business Overview.    
  Our operating units include businesses with operations throughout the world. Otis, Carrier and UTC Fire   Security (collectively referred
to as the commercial businesses) serve customers in the commercial and residential property industries worldwide. Carrier also serves commercial, industrial, transport refrigeration and food service equipment customers. Pratt   Whitney,
Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky (collectively referred to as the aerospace businesses) primarily serve commercial and government customers in both the original equipment and aftermarket parts and services markets of the aerospace industry. Hamilton
Sundstrand, Pratt   Whitney and UTC Fire   Security also serve customers in certain industrial markets. For 2010, our commercial and industrial sales (generated principally by our commercial businesses) were approximately 57
percent of our consolidated net sales, and commercial aerospace and military aerospace sales were approximately 22 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Sales for 2010 from outside the United States, including U.S.
export sales, were 60 percent of our total segment sales.      This Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our Internet website (http://www.utc.com) under the heading  SEC Filings  as soon as reasonably practicable after these
reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our SEC filings are also available for reading and copying at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.
Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.       Description of Business by Segment    
  We conduct our business through six principal segments: Otis, Carrier, UTC Fire   Security, Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand
and Sikorsky. Each segment groups similar operating companies and the management organization of each segment has general operating autonomy over a range of products and services. The principal products and services of each segment are as follows:
     Otis elevators, escalators, moving walkways and service.      Carrier heating, ventilating, air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration systems, controls, services and energy-efficient products for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications.
     UTC Fire   Security fire and special hazard detection and suppression systems, firefighting equipment, security, monitoring and rapid
response systems and service, and security personnel services.      Pratt   Whitney commercial, military, business jet and general aviation
aircraft engines, parts and services, industrial gas turbines, geothermal power systems and space propulsion.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

   Hamilton Sundstrand aerospace products and aftermarket services, including power generation, management and
distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units, propeller systems and industrial products, including air compressors, metering pumps
and fluid handling equipment.      Sikorsky military and commercial helicopters, aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.   
  Segment financial data for the years 2008 through 2010, including financial information about foreign and domestic operations and export sales,
appears in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report. Segment sales as discussed below include intercompany sales, which are ultimately eliminated within the  Eliminations and other  category as reflected
in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report. Similarly, total segment backlog as discussed below includes intercompany backlog.       Otis       Otis is the world s largest elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and
service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment,
Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves customers in the commercial and residential property industries
around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through sales representatives and distributors.   
  Sales generated by Otis  international operations were 82 percent and 80 percent of total Otis segment sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
At December 31, 2010, Otis  backlog was $13,923 million as compared to $14,550 million at December 31, 2009. Of the total Otis backlog at December 31, 2010, approximately $7,874 million is expected to be realized as sales in
2011.       Carrier       Carrier is the
world s largest provider of HVAC and refrigeration solutions, including controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. Carrier also provides installation, retrofit and aftermarket services for the products it
sells and those of other manufacturers in the HVAC and refrigeration industries. In 2010, Carrier continued to execute the business transformation strategy it began in 2008 by completing divestitures of several non-core businesses and taking
noncontrolling equity interests in ventures with partners in Asia, the U.S., Europe, and the Middle East. These included a distribution venture to distribute Carrier heating and air conditioning products in California and the western United States,
the sale of a controlling equity interest in Carrier s Korean air conditioning operations, and the sale of a significant part of Carrier s equity interest in a publicly-traded manufacturer and distributor of residential air conditioning
products in Egypt and other parts of Africa. Carrier s products and services are sold under Carrier and other brand names to building contractors and owners, homeowners, transportation companies, retail stores and food service companies.
Through its venture with Watsco, Inc., Carrier distributes Carrier, Bryant, Payne and Totaline residential and light commercial HVAC products in the U.S. and selected territories in the Caribbean and Latin America. Carrier sells directly to end
customers and through manufacturers  representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of Carrier s HVAC businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by weather. Carrier customarily offers its customers
incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution channels. The principal incentive program provides reimbursements to distributors for offering promotional pricing on Carrier products. We account
for incentive payments made as a reduction to sales.      Sales generated by Carrier s international operations, including U.S. export
sales, were 56 percent and 55 percent of total Carrier segment sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, Carrier s backlog was $2,240 million as compared to $2,199 million at December 31, 2009. Substantially all of
the backlog at December 31, 2010 is expected to be realized as sales in 2011.       UTC Fire   Security    
  UTC Fire   Security is a global provider of security and fire safety products and services. UTC Fire   Security provides
electronic security products such as intruder alarms, access control systems and video surveillance systems and designs and manufactures a wide range of fire safety products including specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products,
portable fire extinguishers, fire detection and life safety systems, and other firefighting equipment. Services provided to the electronic security and fire safety industries include systems integration, video surveillance, installation, maintenance
and inspection services. UTC Fire   Security also provides monitoring, response and security personnel services, including cash-in-transit security, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. In 2010, we completed the
acquisition of the GE Security business from General Electric Company. With the acquisition of GE Security, UTC strengthened its portfolio of security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications, including fire detection
and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, video surveillance and   
         4   

Table of Contents  

access control systems, and also significantly enhanced UTC Fire   Security s North American presence. UTC Fire   Security products and services are used by governments,
financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire consultants and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. UTC Fire   Security provides
its products and services under Chubb, Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to the customer as well as through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution.   
  Sales generated by UTC Fire   Security s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 84 percent and 82 percent of
total UTC Fire   Security segment sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, UTC Fire   Security s backlog was $1,106 million as compared to $898 million at December 31, 2009. Most of the backlog at
December 31, 2010 is expected to be realized as sales in 2011.       Pratt   Whitney    
  Pratt   Whitney is among the world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and general
aviation markets. Pratt   Whitney Global Services provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for large commercial engines. Pratt   Whitney produces
families of engines for wide- and narrow-body aircraft in the commercial and military markets. Pratt   Whitney Power Systems sells aero-derivative engines for industrial applications. Pratt   Whitney Canada (P WC) is a world
leader in the production of engines powering business, regional, light jet, utility and military aircraft and helicopters and provides related maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management
services. Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne (PWR) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated space propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, including the U.S. space shuttle program.   
  In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt   Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in
which sales, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2010, the interests of third party participants in Pratt   Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from 14 percent to 48 percent. In addition, Pratt  
Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 33 percent interest in the International Aero Engines (IAE) collaboration, which sells and supports V2500 engines for the Airbus A320 family of aircraft. At December 31, 2010, portions
of Pratt   Whitney s interests in IAE (equivalent to 4 percent of the overall IAE collaboration) were held by third party participants. Pratt   Whitney also has a 50 percent interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint
venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. At December 31, 2010, 40 percent of Pratt   Whitney s 50 percent interest in the EA was held by third party participants.
Pratt   Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners.      The development of new engines and improvements to
current production engines present important growth opportunities. Pratt   Whitney is under contract with the U.S. Air Force to develop the F135 engine, a derivative of Pratt   Whitney s F119 engine, to power the single-engine
F-35 Lightning II aircraft being developed by Lockheed Martin. Pratt   Whitney achieved initial service release for the conventional take-off and landing/carrier variant and short take-off and vertical landing variant of the F135 engine in
February 2010 and January 2011, respectively. These propulsion system configurations are now certified for production and cleared for flight on the Lockheed Martin F-35B stealth fighter jet. In addition, Pratt   Whitney is currently
developing technology intended to enable it to power proposed and future aircraft, including the PurePower PW1000G Geared TurboFan engine. The PurePower PW1000G engine targets a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels with lower
environmental emissions and operating costs than current production engines. In 2009, Pratt   Whitney successfully completed ground and flight testing of a demonstrator engine for the PurePower PW1000G engine. In December 2010, Airbus
announced that it will offer the PurePower PW1000G engine as a new engine option to power its A320neo family of aircraft scheduled to enter into service in 2016. Additionally, PurePower PW1000G engine models have been selected by Bombardier to power
the new CSeries passenger aircraft and by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries to power the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet (MRJ), scheduled to enter into service in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In 2010, the gas generator core of the MRJ version of the PurePower
PW1000G engine successfully completed over 260 hours of ground testing and the initial production version of the Bombardier CSeries PurePower PW1000G engine successfully completed over 120 hours of ground testing. Irkut Corporation of Russia has
also selected the PurePower PW1000G engine to power the proposed new Irkut MC-21 passenger aircraft, which is planned to enter into service in 2016. The success of these aircraft and the PurePower PW1000G engine is dependent upon many factors
including technological challenges, aircraft demand, and regulatory approval. Based on these factors, as well as the level of success of aircraft program launches by aircraft manufacturers and other conditions, additional investment in the PurePower
program may be required. Pratt   Whitney has also received Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) and European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) certification for the Advantage70 upgrade to its PW4000 engine for Airbus A330 aircraft. The Advantage70
upgrade is intended to reduce maintenance and fuel costs and increase thrust. PWR is developing a liquid fuel J-2X engine to support NASA s vision for space exploration. PWR is also upgrading the performance of the RS-68 engine to support U.S.
Air Force launch requirements and NASA requirements. P WC is developing the PW210 engine for Sikorsky s S-76D helicopter and the PurePower PW800 engine for the new generation of long-range and heavy business jets. Pratt   Whitney
continues to enhance its programs through performance improvement measures and product base expansion.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

   Pratt   Whitney s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and
other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, space launch vehicle providers and the U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt   Whitney s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and
performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of
sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales representatives. Sales to Airbus were 12 percent and 11 percent of total Pratt   Whitney segment sales in 2010 and
2009, respectively, before taking into account discounts or financial incentives offered to customers. Sales to the U.S. government were 32 percent of total Pratt   Whitney segment sales in each of 2010 and 2009.   
  Sales generated by Pratt   Whitney s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 52 percent of total Pratt  
Whitney segment sales in each of 2010 and 2009. At December 31, 2010, Pratt   Whitney s backlog was $23,533 million, including $5,059 million of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2009, these
amounts were $22,614 million and $4,577 million, respectively. Of the total Pratt   Whitney backlog at December 31, 2010, approximately $7,065 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2011. Pratt   Whitney s backlog
includes certain contracts for which actual costs may ultimately exceed total sales. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report for a description of our accounting for long-term contracts.   
   Hamilton Sundstrand       Hamilton Sundstrand is
among the world s leading suppliers of technologically advanced aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide. Hamilton Sundstrand s aerospace products, such as power generation, management
and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units and propeller systems, serve commercial, military, regional, business and general
aviation, as well as military ground vehicle, space and undersea applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical support and fleet maintenance programs. Hamilton Sundstrand sells aerospace
products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators and independent distributors. Sales to the U.S. government were 24 percent and 26 percent of total Hamilton Sundstrand segment sales in 2010 and 2009,
respectively.      Hamilton Sundstrand is engaged in development programs for the Boeing 787 aircraft, the Bombardier CSeries aircraft, the
Mitsubishi Regional Jet, the Airbus A350 aircraft, the Irkut MC-21 aircraft, the COMAC C919 aircraft, the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II military aircraft and the Airbus A400M military aircraft. Hamilton Sundstrand is also the operations support
prime contractor for NASA s space suit/life support system and produces environmental monitoring and control, life support, mechanical systems and thermal control systems for the U.S. space shuttle program, the international space station and
the Orion crew exploration vehicle.      Hamilton Sundstrand s principal industrial products, such as air compressors, metering pumps
and fluid handling equipment, serve industries involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment and construction. Hamilton Sundstrand sells these products under the Sullair, Sundyne, Milton
Roy and other brand names directly to end users, and through manufacturer representatives and distributors.      Sales generated by Hamilton
Sundstrand s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 49 percent and 50 percent of total Hamilton Sundstrand segment sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, Hamilton Sundstrand s backlog was
$5,119 million, including $719 million of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2009, these amounts were $5,077 million and $835 million, respectively. Of the total Hamilton Sundstrand backlog at December 31,
2010, approximately $2,496 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2011.       Sikorsky    
  Sikorsky is the world s largest helicopter company. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket
helicopter and aircraft parts and services.      Current major production programs at Sikorsky include the UH-60M Black Hawk
medium-transport helicopters and HH-60M Medevac helicopters for the U.S. and foreign governments, the S-70 Black Hawk for foreign governments, the MH-60S and MH-60R helicopters for the U.S. Navy, the International Naval Hawk for multiple naval
missions, and the S-76 and S-92 helicopters for commercial operations. The UH-60M helicopter is the latest and most modern in a series of Black Hawk variants that Sikorsky has been delivering to the U.S. Army since 1978 and requires significant
additional assembly hours relative to the previous variants. In December 2007, the U.S. government and Sikorsky signed a five-year multi-service contract for 537 H-60 helicopters to be delivered to the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy, which include the
UH-60M, HH-60M, MH-60S and MH-60R. The contract includes options for an additional 263 aircraft, spare parts, and kits, potentially making it the largest contract in UTC and Sikorsky history. Actual production quantities will be determined
year-by-year over the life of the program based on funding allocations set by Congress and Pentagon acquisition priorities. The deliveries of the aircraft are scheduled to be made through 2012. Sikorsky is also developing the CH-53K
  
         6   

Table of Contents  

next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the CH-148 derivative of the H-92 helicopter, a military variant of the S-92 helicopter, for the Canadian government. The
latter is being developed under a fixed-price contract that provides for the development, production, and 24-year logistical support of 28 helicopters. This is the largest and most expansive fixed-price development contract in Sikorsky s
history. As previously disclosed, in June 2010 Sikorsky and the Canadian government signed contract amendments that revised the delivery schedule and contract specifications, and established the requirements for the first six interim aircraft
deliveries to enable initial operational test and evaluation activities prior to the scheduled delivery of final configuration helicopters starting in June 2012. The amendments also included modifications to the liquidated damages schedule,
readjustment of payment schedules, resolution of open disputes and other program enhancements. Delivery of the interim configuration helicopters was scheduled to commence in November 2010, but is now expected to begin in the first quarter of 2011.
     Sikorsky s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics
support programs for helicopters and other aircraft. Sales are principally made to the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its
government and commercial customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and repair services.      Sales to the U.S. government were
68 percent and 63 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales generated by Sikorsky s international operations, including U.S. export sales, were 33 percent and 32 percent of total Sikorsky segment sales in
2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, Sikorsky s backlog was $9,287 million, including $4,234 million of U.S. government-funded contracts and subcontracts. At December 31, 2009, these amounts were $10,329 million and
$4,957 million, respectively. Of the total Sikorsky backlog at December 31, 2010, approximately $5,421 million is expected to be realized as sales in 2011.       Other       UTC Power is a world leader in the application of fuel cell technology for stationary
and transportation applications. UTC Power has delivered more than 280 of its 200kW phosphoric acid fuel cell power plants for stationary installations since 1992. UTC Power ceased production of the 200kW unit in 2009 and began deliveries of its
400kW phosphoric acid fuel cell. This new fuel cell is expected to have greater durability than any other large stationary fuel cell currently available in the market. UTC Power s automotive and bus transportation fuel cell power plants are
based on proton exchange membrane (PEM) technology. PureMotion 120 power plants are currently used in revenue service in transit bus applications in Connecticut, California and Europe. UTC Power is currently developing PEM fuel cells for submarine
applications. In addition, UTC Power is the maker of alkaline-based fuel cells used to provide electricity and drinking water to the U.S. space shuttle.      Although fuel cells are generally believed to be superior to conventional power generation technologies in terms of total system efficiency and environmental characteristics, the technology is still in either early
commercialization or the development stage. Continued technology advancement and cost reduction are required to achieve wide-scale market acceptance. Government support is needed to fully commercialize fuel cell technology. There is still
significant uncertainty as to whether and when commercially viable fuel cells will be produced.      In January 2010, we acquired a 49.5%
equity stake in Clipper Windpower Plc (Clipper), a California-based wind turbine manufacturer. In December 2010, we completed the acquisition of all of the remaining shares of Clipper. This investment is intended to expand our power generation
portfolio and allow us to enter the wind power market by leveraging our expertise in blade technology, turbines and gearbox design.      The
results of UTC Power and Clipper are included in the  Eliminations and other  category in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report.   
   Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole        Competition and Other Factors Affecting Our Businesses       As worldwide businesses, our operations
can be affected by a variety of economic and other factors, including those described in this section, in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in our 2010 Annual Report, in
Item 1,  Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results,  and in Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in this Form 10-K. Each business unit is subject to significant competition from a large number of companies in
the United States and other countries, and each competes on the basis of price, delivery schedule, product performance and service.      Our
aerospace businesses are subject to substantial competition from domestic manufacturers, foreign manufacturers (whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their national
commercial products) and companies that obtain regulatory agency approval to manufacture spare parts. In particular, Pratt     
         7   

Table of Contents  

Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine combinations. Engine suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating
cost guarantees, participation in financing arrangements and maintenance agreements. For information regarding customer financing commitments, participation in guarantees of customer financing arrangements and performance and operating cost
guarantees, see Notes 4, 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report. Customer selections of engines and components can also have a significant impact on later sales of parts and services. In addition, the U.S.
government s and other governments  policies of purchasing parts from suppliers other than the original equipment manufacturer affect military spare parts sales. Significant elements of our aerospace businesses, such as spare parts sales
for engines and aircraft in service, have short lead times. Therefore, backlog information may not be indicative of future demand. Pratt   Whitney s major competitors in the sale of engines are GE Aviation, Rolls-Royce, Honeywell and
Turbomeca.       Research and Development       Since changes in technology can have a significant impact on our operations and competitive position, we spend substantial amounts of our own funds on research and development. These expenditures, which are charged
to expense as incurred, were $1,746 million or 3.2 percent of total sales in 2010, as compared with $1,558 million or 3.0 percent of total sales in 2009 and $1,771 million or 3.0 percent of total sales in 2008. We also perform research and
development work under contracts funded by the U.S. government and other customers. This contract research and development, which is performed principally in the Pratt   Whitney segment and to a lesser extent in the Hamilton Sundstrand and
Sikorsky segments, amounted to $1,951 million in 2010, as compared to $2,124 million in 2009 and $2,101 million in 2008. These contract research and development costs include amounts that are expensed as incurred, through cost of products sold, and
amounts that are capitalized into inventory to be subsequently recovered through production aircraft shipments. Of the total contract research and development costs, $1,890 million, $2,095 million and $2,008 million were expensed in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. The remaining costs have been capitalized.       U.S. Government Contracts    
  U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of
our failure to perform under the applicable contract. In the case of a termination for convenience, we would normally be entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. If terminated by the
government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. Most of our U.S. government sales are made under
fixed-price type contracts, while approximately $2,961 million or 5.5 percent of our total sales for 2010 were made under cost-reimbursement type contracts.      Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to audits. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports from the U.S. government which recommend that we reduce certain contract prices
because cost or pricing data we submitted in negotiation of the contract prices or cost accounting practices may not have conformed to government regulations. Some of these audit reports have recommended substantial reductions. We have made
voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. For further discussion of risks related to government contracting, see the discussion in Item 1A,  Risk
Factors  and Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  in this Form 10-K and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report for further discussion.       Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations       Our operations are subject to
and affected by environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. We have incurred and will likely continue to incur liabilities under
various government statutes for the cleanup of pollutants previously released into the environment. We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to
make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Environmental matters are further addressed in  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Notes 1 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report.      Most of the U.S. laws governing environmental matters include criminal provisions. If we were convicted of a violation of the federal Clean Air Act or Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the
violation would be ineligible to be used in performing any U.S. government contract we are awarded until the Environmental Protection Agency thereafter certifies that the condition giving rise to the violation had been corrected.   
  In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change. Changes in climate change
concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including compliance costs and increased energy and raw materials costs.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

   We conduct our businesses through subsidiaries and affiliates worldwide. Changes in legislation or
government policies can affect our worldwide operations. For example, governmental regulation of refrigerants and energy efficiency standards, elevator safety codes and fire safety regulations are important to the businesses of Carrier, Otis and UTC
Fire   Security, respectively, while government safety and performance regulations, restrictions on aircraft engine noise and emissions and government procurement practices can impact our aerospace businesses.   
   Intellectual Property and Raw Materials and Supplies       We maintain a portfolio of patents, trademarks, licenses and franchises related to our businesses. While this portfolio is cumulatively important to our business, we do not believe that the loss of any one or group
of related patents, trademarks, licenses or franchises would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.   
  We believe we have adequate sources for our purchases of materials, components, services and supplies used in our manufacturing. We work
continuously with our supply base to ensure an adequate source of supply and to reduce costs. We pursue cost reductions through a number of mechanisms, including consolidating our purchases, reducing the number of suppliers, strategic global
sourcing and using bidding competitions among potential suppliers. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. Like other users
in the United States, we are largely dependent upon foreign sources for certain raw materials requirements such as cobalt (Finland, Norway, Russia and Canada), tantalum (Australia and Canada), chromium (South Africa, Kazakhstan, Zimbabwe and Russia)
and rhenium (Chile, Kazakhstan and Germany). We have a number of ongoing programs to manage this dependence and the accompanying risk, including long-term agreements and the conservation of materials through scrap reclamation and new manufacturing
processes. We believe that our supply management practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Although recent high prices for some raw materials important to some of our businesses
(for example, steel, copper, aluminum, titanium and nickel) have caused margin and cost pressures, we do not foresee near term unavailability of materials, components or supplies that would have a material adverse effect on our cash flows,
competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. For further discussion of the possible effects of the cost and availability of raw materials on our business, see Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in this Form 10-K.
      Employees and Employee Relations    
  At December 31, 2010, our total number of employees was approximately 208,200, approximately 65 percent of which represents employees based
outside the United States. The number of employees increased in 2010, as compared to 2009, reflecting the impact of acquisitions across the company, most notably the 2010 acquisition of the GE Security business, which we are in the process of
integrating within the UTC Fire   Security segment. The increase in the number of employees in 2010 associated with acquisition activity was partially offset by headcount reductions associated with initiated restructuring actions. During
2010, we renegotiated eight domestic multi-year collective bargaining agreements, the largest of which covered certain workers at Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky. In 2011, numerous collective bargaining agreements are
subject to renegotiation, the largest of which cover certain workers at Carrier. Although some previous contract renegotiations have had a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations, particularly at Sikorsky, we do not
anticipate that the renegotiation of these contracts will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment,
see Item 1A,  Risk Factors  and Item 3,  Legal Proceedings  in this Form 10-K and under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report.      For a discussion of other matters which may affect our cash flows,
competitive position, financial condition or results of operations, including the risks of our international operations, see the further discussion under the headings  General  and  Description of Business by Segment  in this
section, Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in this Form 10-K, and under  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in our 2010 Annual Report.   
     Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results    
  This Form 10-K contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute  forward-looking
statements  under the securities laws. From time to time, oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management s
current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as  believe,   expect, 
 plans,   strategy,   prospects,   estimate,   project,   target,   anticipate,   will,   should,   see,   guidance  and other words of
similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include, among others, statements relating to:       

future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance;      
         9   

Table of Contents  

the effect of economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the United States and globally and any changes therein, including financial market
conditions, fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel, financial
difficulties (including bankruptcy) of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;      

delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;      

new business opportunities;          

cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof;      

the scope, nature or impact of acquisition and divestiture activity, including integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses;

the development, production, delivery, support, performance and anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services;

the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;      

the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;      

the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies;          

future repurchases of our common stock;          

future levels of indebtedness and capital and research and development spending;      

future availability of credit;          

pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and          

the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate.
        All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. This Form 10-K includes important information as to factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements. See the  Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements  under the heading  Contingent Liabilities,  the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  under the headings
 Business Overview,   Critical Accounting Estimates,   Results of Operations,  and  Liquidity and Financial Condition,  and the section titled  Risk Factors.  This Form 10-K also includes important
information as to these risk factors in the  Business  section under the headings  General,   Description of Business by Segment  and  Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole,  and in the  Legal
Proceedings  section. Additional important information as to these factors is included in our 2010 Annual Report in the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  under
the headings  Environmental Matters  and  Restructuring and Other Costs.  For additional information identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements, see
our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time.       

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated
future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in the  Business  section under the headings
 Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole  and  Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results  in this Form 10-K and in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  and  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  in our 2010 Annual Report.        Our Global Growth Is Subject to
a Number of Economic Risks        The global economy, which experienced a significant downturn throughout 2008 and 2009, including
widespread recessionary conditions, record levels of unemployment, significant distress of financial institutions, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments
and declining valuations of others, began showing signs of gradual improvement in 2010. However, while some economic indicators trended positively, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during the course of 2010 has been uneven and
uncertainty continues to exist over the stability of the recovery. Global gross domestic product growth in 2010 was led by emerging markets. In the developed economies, particularly in Europe, where the recovery is sluggish, the unwinding of fiscal
stimuli and lingering high unemployment have encouraged the use of expansionary monetary policies to sustain economic recoveries. Although consumer confidence in the U.S. has improved since the economic downturn, it still remains low, while
unemployment remains high and the housing market remains depressed. There can be   
         10   

Table of Contents  

no assurance that any of the recent economic improvements will be broad based and sustainable, or that they will enhance conditions in markets relevant to us. Further, there can be no assurance
that we will not experience further adverse effects that may be material to our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition, results of operations, or our ability to access capital. While these economic developments have not impaired our
ability to access credit markets and finance our operations to date, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These economic developments affect businesses such
as ours in a number of ways. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of
orders for our products and services as well as impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, this tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to
experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, air travel, construction activity, the financial
strength of airline customers and business jet operators, and government procurement. Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. Dollar against certain major currencies such as the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and other currencies also
adversely affects our results.        Our Financial Performance Is Dependent on the Conditions of the Construction and Aerospace Industries
       The results of our commercial and industrial businesses, which generated approximately 57% of our consolidated net sales in
2010, are influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity, regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and
energy costs, the tightening of the U.S. credit markets and other global and political factors. A slowdown in building and remodeling activity can adversely impact Carrier s business. In addition to these factors, Carrier s financial
performance can also be influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment and, in its residential business, weather conditions.      The results of our commercial and military aerospace businesses, which generated approximately 43% of our consolidated net sales in 2010, are directly tied to the economic conditions in the commercial aviation and
defense industries, which are cyclical in nature. Although the operating environment currently faced by commercial airlines has shown signs of gradual improvement in 2010, uncertainty continues to exist. As a result, financial difficulties,
including bankruptcy, of one or more of the major commercial airlines could result in significant cancellations of orders, reductions in our aerospace sales and losses under existing contracts. In addition, capital spending and demand for aircraft
engine and component aftermarket parts and service by commercial airlines, aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel
pricing, labor issues, worldwide airline profits, airline consolidation, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, corporate profitability, and backlog
levels, all of which could reduce both the demand for air travel and the aftermarket sales and margins of our aerospace businesses. Future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our
aerospace businesses aftermarket sales and margins. Also, since a substantial portion of the backlog for commercial aerospace customers is scheduled for delivery beyond 2011, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm
orders be rescheduled or canceled. At times, our aerospace businesses also enter into firm fixed-price development contracts, which may require us to bear cost overruns related to unforeseen technical and design challenges that arise during the
development stage of the program. In addition, our aerospace businesses face intense competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers of new equipment and spare parts. The defense industry is also affected by a changing global political
environment, continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending and U.S. foreign policy and the level of activity in military flight operations. Spare parts sales and aftermarket service trends are affected by similar factors, including usage,
pricing, technological improvements, regulatory changes and the retirement of older aircraft. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing products in these business segments to market, we cannot predict
the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. A reduction in capital spending in the commercial aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have a material
adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.        Our Business May Be Affected by Government
Contracting Risks        U.S. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the
government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. If terminated by the government as a result of our default, we could be liable for additional costs the government incurs in acquiring undelivered goods
or services from another source and any other damages it suffers. We are now, and believe that in light of the current U.S. government contracting environment we will continue to be, the subject of one or more U.S. government investigations relating
to certain of our U.S. government contracts. If we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any U.S. government investigation (including violation of certain environmental or export laws), the U.S. government could
suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could subject us to fines, penalties, repayments and treble and other
damages. The U.S. government could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. The U.S. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other seriously improper
conduct. Debarment generally does not exceed three years. Independently, failure to comply with U.S. laws and regulations related to the export of goods and technology outside the United States could result in civil or criminal penalties and
suspension or termination of our export privileges. In addition, we are also sensitive to U.S. military budgets, which may fluctuate to reflect the policies of a new administration or Congress.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

     Our International Operations Subject Us to Economic Risk As Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected
by Changes in Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Economic Conditions and Changes in Local Government Regulation        We conduct our
business on a global basis, with approximately 60% of our total 2010 segment sales derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. Changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuations in exchange rates, may
affect product demand and reported profits in our non-U.S. operations (primarily the commercial businesses) where transactions are generally denominated in local currencies. In addition, currency fluctuations may affect the prices we pay suppliers
for materials used in our products. As a result, our operating margins may also be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross border transactions. Our financial statements are denominated in
U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may also give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of non-U.S. operating units are translated into U.S. dollars. Given that the majority of our sales are non-U.S.
based, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations.      The
majority of sales in the aerospace businesses are transacted in U.S. dollars, consistent with established industry practice, while the majority of costs at locations outside the United States are incurred in the applicable local currency
(principally the Euro and the Canadian dollar). For operating units with U.S. dollar sales and local currency costs, there is a foreign currency exposure that could impact our results of operations depending on market changes in the exchange rate of
the U.S. dollar against the applicable foreign currencies. To manage certain exposures, we employ long-term hedging strategies associated with U.S. dollar sales. See Note 1 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual
Report for a discussion of our hedging strategies.      Our international sales and operations are subject to risks associated with changes
in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, capital controls, employment regulations, and repatriation of earnings. Our international sales and
operations are also sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to political and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing
legal systems and customs in foreign countries. For example, as a condition of sale or award of a contract, some international customers require us to agree to offset arrangements, which may include in-country purchases, manufacturing and financial
support arrangements. The contract may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements.   
  In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Mexico,
Russia, South Africa and countries in the Middle East, that carry high levels of currency, political and economic risk. We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales as our business evolves
and as these and other developing nations and regions around the world increase their demand for our products. Emerging market operations can present many risks, including civil disturbances, health concerns, cultural differences, such as employment
and business practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic and government instability, and the imposition of exchange controls and capital controls. While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them
could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.        We Use a Variety of
Raw Materials, Supplier-Provided Parts, Components, Sub-Systems and Third Party Contract Manufacturing Services in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages, Supplier Capacity Constraints, Supplier Production Disruptions or Price Increases Could
Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products        Our reliance on suppliers, third
party contract manufacturing and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials. In many instances, we depend upon a single
source of supply, manufacturing or assembly or participate in commodity markets that may be subject to allocations of limited supplies by suppliers. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or third party contract manufacturers, supplier
capacity constraints, supplier and third party contract manufacturer production disruptions, closing or bankruptcy of our suppliers, price increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have a material adverse effect on
our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices.
Nonetheless, price increases, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions or the unavailability of some raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of
operations.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

     We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, and May Encounter Difficulties Integrating Acquired Businesses with,
or Disposing of Divested Businesses from, Our Current Operations; Therefore, We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of these Acquisitions and Divestitures        We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions, in addition to internal growth. In the past several years, we have made various acquisitions and have entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement
and expand our businesses, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in connection with these transactions, apply our internal controls processes
to these acquired businesses, and cooperate with our strategic partners. However, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the material issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular
transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target s previous activities. We may incur unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges, expenses associated
with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. We also may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying our internal controls processes to these acquisitions, or in managing strategic
investments. Additionally, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, accounting
requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which we acquire new
businesses. Furthermore, we make strategic divestitures from time to time. These divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, such as through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the
transaction. Under these arrangements, nonperformance by those divested businesses could result in obligations imposed on us and could affect our future financial results.        We Design, Manufacture and Service Products that Incorporate Advanced Technologies; The Introduction of New Products and Technologies Involves Risks and We May Not Realize the Degree or Timing of Benefits
Initially Anticipated        We seek to achieve growth through the design, development, production, sale and support of innovative
products that incorporate advanced technologies. The product, program and service needs of our customers change and evolve regularly, and we invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts that pursue advancements in a wide range of
technologies, products and services. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of these advancements depends on a variety of factors, including meeting development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules; execution of
internal and external performance plans; availability of supplier- and internally-produced parts and materials; performance of suppliers and subcontractors; hiring and training of qualified personnel; achieving cost and production efficiencies;
identification of emerging technological trends in our target end-markets; validation of innovative technologies; the level of customer interest in new technologies and products, and customer acceptance of our products and products that incorporate
technologies we develop. These factors involve significant risks and uncertainties. Any development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and these efforts may not lead to the development of new technologies or
products on a timely basis or meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition, the markets for our products or products that incorporate our technologies may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. We or our
suppliers and subcontractors may encounter difficulties in developing and producing these new products and services, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in
the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased development costs or deflect resources from other projects. In particular, we cannot predict with certainty whether,
when and in what quantities our aerospace businesses will produce and sell aircraft engines, helicopters, aircraft systems and components and other products currently in development or pending required certifications. Our contracts are typically
awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other items, the cost to provide the services. To generate an acceptable return on our investment in these contracts we must be able to accurately estimate our costs to provide the
services required by the contract and to be able to complete the contracts in a timely manner. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to complete a contract, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and
adversely affected. Some of our contracts provide for liquidated damages in the event that we are unable to perform and deliver in accordance with the contractual specifications and schedule. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will
not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. The possibility exists that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings that might cause our existing technology and offerings to become
obsolete. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse affect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.        We Are Subject to Litigation, Tax, Environmental and Other Legal Compliance Risks        We
are subject to a variety of litigation, tax and legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, possible liability relating to product liability matters, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, government contracts, taxes,
environmental matters and compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws, competition laws and laws governing improper business practices. We or one of our business units could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or
found liable, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, other damages (in certain cases, treble damages), or suspension or debarment from government contracts. Independently, failure of us or one of our business units to
comply with applicable export and trade practice laws could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of export privileges. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other
countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses
and payments, and uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or
regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of
such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw materials costs.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

   In the area of taxes, changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related
interpretations and other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various
authorities, including tax authorities. In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions and existing investigations could be expanded. The
global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our results may be affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other
contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty.      For non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish
reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time.
Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements and could result in an adverse effect on our results of
operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. For a description of current legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3  Legal Proceedings,  in this Form 10-K.
For income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant
facts. For those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. Subsequent events may cause us to change
our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations in the period in which such event occurs or on our cash flows in the
period in which the ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority occurs.        We May Be Unable to Realize Expected Benefits From Our Cost
Reduction and Restructuring Efforts and Our Profitability May Be Hurt or Our Business Otherwise Might Be Adversely Affected        In
order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to
generate operating expense savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings. We may undertake further workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and
restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not
realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in
restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated
costs reductions or may otherwise harm our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.        We Depend On Our Intellectual Property, and Infringement or Failure to Protect Intellectual Property Could Adversely Affect Our Future Growth and Success     
  We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual
property. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents to us, that patents issued to or licensed by us in
the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents
and patent applications. In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside the United States, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market position in such
countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed or licensed by us.      Any of these events or factors could
diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected
products or services.       

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         None.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

Item 2.   
   Properties          

*  
    For purposes of this table, emerging markets is based on the countries included in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index   SM   .      
  Our fixed assets as of December 31, 2010 include manufacturing facilities and non-manufacturing facilities such as warehouses set forth in the
tables above and a substantial quantity of machinery and equipment, most of which are general purpose machinery and equipment using special jigs, tools and fixtures and in many instances having automatic control features and special adaptations. The
facilities, warehouses, machinery and equipment in use as of December 31, 2010 are in good operating condition, are well-maintained and substantially all are in regular use.   

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         As previously disclosed,
the Department of Justice (DOJ) sued us in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, claiming that Pratt   Whitney violated the civil False Claims Act and common law. This lawsuit relates to the  Fighter Engine
Competition  between Pratt   Whitney s F100 engine and General Electric s F110 engine. The DOJ alleges that the government overpaid for F100 engines under contracts awarded by the U.S. Air Force in fiscal years 1985 through
1990 because Pratt   Whitney inflated its estimated costs for some purchased parts and withheld data that would have revealed the overstatements. At trial of this matter, completed in December 2004, the government claimed Pratt  
Whitney s liability to be $624 million. On August 1, 2008, the trial court judge held that the Air Force had not suffered any actual damages because Pratt   Whitney had made significant price concessions. However, the trial court
judge found that Pratt   Whitney violated the False Claims Act due to inaccurate statements contained in its 1983 offer. In the absence of actual damages, the trial court judge awarded the DOJ the maximum civil penalty of
  
         15   

Table of Contents  

$7.09 million, or $10,000 for each of the 709 invoices Pratt   Whitney submitted in 1989 and later under the contracts. In September 2008, both the DOJ and UTC appealed the decision to
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. In November 2010, the Sixth Circuit affirmed Pratt   Whitney s liability under the False Claims Act and remanded the case to the U.S. District Court for further proceedings on the question of
damages. Should the government ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages
would be paid.      As previously disclosed, on February 21, 2007, the European Commission s Competition Directorate (EU
Commission) ruled that Otis  subsidiaries in Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, and a portion of the business of Otis  German subsidiary, violated European Union (EU) competition rules and assessed a      225 million (approximately $300 million) civil fine against Otis, its relevant local entities, and UTC, which was paid during 2007. In May
2007, we filed an appeal of the decision before the General Court of the European Court of Justice. A decision on the appeal is expected within the next twelve months. Depending upon the outcome, a further appeal by either party to the European
Court of Justice is possible.      As previously disclosed, in December 2008, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a contract claim
against Sikorsky to recover overpayments the DOD alleges it has incurred since January 2003 in connection with cost accounting changes approved by the DOD and implemented by Sikorsky in 1999 and 2006. These changes relate to the calculation of
material overhead rates in government contracts. The DOD claims that Sikorsky s liability is approximately $88 million (including interest through December 2010). We believe this claim is without merit, and Sikorsky filed an appeal in December
2009 with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, which is pending.      As previously disclosed, in September 2009, Pratt   Whitney
announced plans to close a repair facility in East Hartford, Connecticut by the second quarter of 2010 and an engine overhaul facility in Cheshire, Connecticut by early 2011. The International Association of Machinists (IAM) subsequently filed
a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut in Hartford, Connecticut alleging that Pratt   Whitney s decision to close these facilities and transfer certain work to facilities outside Connecticut breached the
terms of its collective bargaining agreement with the IAM and seeking to enjoin Pratt   Whitney from moving the work for the duration of the collective bargaining agreement. In February 2010, following a trial on the merits, the
District Court issued a declaratory judgment permanently enjoining Pratt   Whitney from closing the facilities and transferring the work for the duration of its current collective bargaining agreement. The parties negotiated a resolution of
these outstanding issues as part of a new collective bargaining agreement between the IAM and Pratt   Whitney, which IAM members ratified on December 5, 2010. Among other things, the new collective bargaining agreement includes a
plant-closure agreement covering the closure of the two facilities, both of which are expected to take place in 2011.      As previously
disclosed, on August 27, 2010, Rolls-Royce plc (Rolls-Royce) sued Pratt   Whitney in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, alleging that fan blades on certain engines manufactured by Pratt   Whitney
infringe a U.S. patent held by Rolls-Royce. Rolls-Royce seeks damages in an unspecified amount plus interest, an injunction, a finding of willful infringement, and attorneys  fees. We intend to vigorously defend the case and believe that
Rolls-Royce s patent is invalid and that Pratt   Whitney s products do not infringe it. Trial in the matter could take place as early as March 2011. Should the plaintiff ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result
in a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. On November 5, 2010, Pratt   Whitney amended its
previously-disclosed complaint against Rolls-Royce in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, adding Rolls-Royce Group plc (Rolls-Royce Group), the parent of Rolls-Royce, as a party, omitting previously asserted claims, and alleging
that certain turbomachinery blades, engines and components manufactured by Rolls-Royce infringe a U.S. patent held by Pratt   Whitney. Pratt   Whitney seeks an injunction, damages, interest, attorney s fees and other relief.
On November 5, 2010, Pratt   Whitney also filed complaints against Rolls-Royce in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patent Court (HCJ) in the United Kingdom (UK) and with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC). The
HCJ action alleges similar infringement claims against Rolls-Royce based upon a UK patent held by Pratt   Whitney and seeks damages plus interest and all other relief to which Pratt   Whitney is entitled, including attorney s
fees, expenses, and a permanent order preventing further infringements. The ITC complaint seeks a permanent exclusion order barring the importation into the U.S. of infringing turbomachinery blades, engines and engine components manufactured by
Rolls-Royce and Rolls-Royce Group, and requests a permanent cease-and-desist order against Rolls-Royce and Rolls-Royce Group preventing further importing, marketing, advertising, demonstrating, testing, distributing, licensing, offering for sale, or
use of such infringing turbomachinery blades, engines and engine components.      Like many other industrial companies in recent years, we
or our subsidiaries are named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos integrated into certain of our products or premises. While we have never manufactured asbestos and no longer incorporate it in any
currently-manufactured products, certain of our historical products, like those of many other manufacturers, have contained components incorporating asbestos. A substantial majority of these asbestos-related claims have been covered by insurance or
other forms of indemnity or have been dismissed without payment. The remainder of the closed cases have been resolved for amounts that are not material individually or in the aggregate. Based on the information currently available, we do not believe
that resolution of these asbestos-related matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

   We are also subject to a number of routine lawsuits, investigations and claims (some of which involve
substantial amounts) arising out of the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.   
  Except as otherwise noted, we do not believe that resolution of any of the legal matters discussed above will have a material adverse effect upon
our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. A further discussion of government contracts and related investigations, as well as a discussion of our environmental liabilities, can be found under the heading
 Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole   Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations  in Item 1,  Business,  and in Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  in this Form 10-K.   

Item 4.   
   (Removed and Reserved)            PART II

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      
  The Performance Graph and Comparative Stock Data appearing in our 2010 Annual Report containing the following data relating to our common stock:
shareholder return, principal market, quarterly high and low sales prices, approximate number of shareowners and frequency and amount of dividends are hereby incorporated by reference.   
   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The following table provides information about our repurchases of equity securities that are registered by us pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, during the quarter ended
December 31, 2010.       
    We repurchase shares under a program announced on March 10, 2010, which authorized the repurchase of up
to 60 million shares of our common stock. Under the current program, shares may be purchased on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions and under plans complying with Rules 10b5-1 and 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. These repurchases are included within the scope of the overall repurchase program authorized in March 2010. We may also reacquire shares outside of the program from time to time in connection with the surrender of shares to cover
taxes on vesting of restricted stock. Approximately 5,000 shares were reacquired in transactions outside the program during the quarter ended December 31, 2010.       

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data         The Five-Year
Summary appearing in our 2010 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  in our 2010 Annual Report for a description of any accounting changes and acquisitions or dispositions of
businesses materially affecting the comparability of the information reflected in the Five-Year Summary.       

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations      
  We hereby incorporate by reference in this Form 10-K the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  in our 2010 Annual Report.       

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         For information concerning market risk sensitive instruments, see discussion under the heading  Market Risk and Risk Management  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  in our 2010 Annual Report and under the heading  Foreign Exchange and Hedging Activity  in Note 1 and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      
  The 2010 and 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheet, and other financial statements for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, together with the report thereon of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP dated February 10, 2011 in our 2010 Annual Report are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The 2010 and 2009 unaudited Selected Quarterly Financial Data appearing in our 2010 Annual Report is incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K.       

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         None.       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures         As required by Rule
13a-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chairman   Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the Vice President, Controller (Controller), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of
disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of
achieving their control objectives. Based upon our evaluation, our CEO, CFO and Controller concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the applicable rules and forms, and that it is accumulated and communicated to
our management, including our CEO, CFO and Controller, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.      Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Our management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control Integrated Framework . Our management concluded that based on its assessment, our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2010. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which
appears in our 2010 Annual Report.      There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December 
31, 2010 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.        
 PART III        

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance         The information required by Item 10 with respect to directors, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and audit committee financial experts is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of our
Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled  General Information Concerning the Board of Directors,   Nominees,  and  Committees of the Board  (under the headings  The Audit Committee 
and  The Committee on Nominations and Governance ).   
         18   

Table of Contents  

    Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following persons are executive officers of United Technologies Corporation:       

Name    
      
     Title    
      
     Other Business Experience Since 1/1/2006    
      
   Age     2/10/2011    
 
  Alain Bellemare  
      
  President, Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation (since 2009)  
      
  President, Pratt   Whitney Canada  
      
  49   

J. Thomas Bowler, Jr.  
      
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Organization (since 2007)  
      
  Vice President, Human Resources, United Technologies Corporation; Vice President, Human Resources and Organization, Pratt   Whitney  
      
  58   

William M. Brown  
      
  President, UTC Fire   Security (since 2006)  
      
  President, Asia Pacific, Carrier Corporation  
      
  48   

Louis R. Ch nevert  
      
  Director (since 2006), Chairman (since 2010), President (since 2006)   Chief Executive Officer (since 2008)  
      
  President and Chief Operating Officer, United Technologies Corporation; President, Pratt   Whitney  
      
  53   

Geraud Darnis  
      
    President, Carrier Corporation     (since
2001)   
      
  ____  
      
  51   

Charles D. Gill  
      
  Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since 2007)  
      
  Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary, Carrier Corporation; Executive Assistant to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, United Technologies Corporation  
      
  46   

Gregory J. Hayes  
      
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since 2008)  
      
  Vice President, Accounting and Finance, United Technologies Corporation; Vice President, Accounting and Control, United Technologies Corporation; Vice President, Controller, United
Technologies Corporation  
      
  50   

David P. Hess  
      
  President, Pratt   Whitney (since 2009)  
      
  President, Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation; President, Hamilton Sundstrand Aerospace Power Systems  
      
  55   

Peter F. Longo  
      
  Vice President, Controller (since January 2011)  
      
  Vice President, Finance, Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation; Vice President, Finance, Sikorsky Aircraft  
      
  51   

Didier Michaud-Daniel  
      
  President, Otis Elevator (since 2008)  
      
  President, Otis United Kingdom and Central Europe Area, Otis Elevator  
      
  53   

Jeffrey P. Pino  
      
  President, Sikorsky Aircraft (since 2006)  
      
  Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Marketing   Commercial Programs, Sikorsky Aircraft  
      
  56   

Thomas I. Rogan  
      
  Vice President, Treasurer (since 2001)  
      
  ____  
      
  58       All of the officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Directors of United Technologies Corporation or the subsidiary designated.      Information concerning Section 16(a) compliance is
incorporated herein by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled  Other Matters  under the heading  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.  We have adopted
a code of ethics that applies to all our directors, officers, employees and representatives. This code is publicly available on our website at http://www.utc.com/Governance/Ethics/Code+of+Ethics. Amendments to the code of ethics and any grant of a
waiver from a provision of the code requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be disclosed on our website. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Board of Directors  Audit Committee, Finance Committee, Committee
  
         19   

Table of Contents  

on Nominations and Governance, Public Issues Review Committee and Committee on Compensation and Executive Development are available on our website at
http://www.utc.com/Governance/Board+of+Directors. These materials may also be requested in print free of charge by writing to our Investor Relations Department at United Technologies Corporation, United Technologies Building, Investor Relations,
Hartford, CT 06101.       

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation         The information
required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners titled  Executive Compensation  and  Director Compensation.    

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters      
  The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and the Equity Compensation Plan Information required by
Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting titled  Security Ownership of Directors, Nominees, Executive Officers and Certain Beneficial Owners  and  Equity
Compensation Plan Information.        

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence         The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting titled  General Information Concerning the Board of
Directors,   Director Independence,  and  Other Matters  (under the heading  Transactions with Related Persons ).       

Item 14.   
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services         The
information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the section of our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting titled  Appointment of a Firm of Independent Registered Public Accountants to Serve as Independent Auditors for
2011,  including the information provided in that section with regard to  Audit Fees,   Audit-Related Fees,   Tax Fees  and  All Other Fees.          PART IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules          

(a)  
  Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits         

(1)  
  Financial Statements (incorporated by reference from the 2010 Annual Report):         

Page Number in Annual Report   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

27  

Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2010   

28  

Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010 and 2009   

29  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2010   

30  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2010   

31  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

33  

Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   

59  

Page Number in Form 10-K   

SCHEDULE I Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement
Schedule    

S-I  

SCHEDULE II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    

S-II  
           All other schedules are omitted because
they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial statements or the notes thereto.       
    The following list of exhibits includes
exhibits submitted with this Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those incorporated by reference to other filings.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit   
   Number    

3(i)    
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, restated as of May 5, 2006, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal
year ended December 31, 2006.   

3(ii)    
      
  Bylaws as amended and restated effective December 10, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to UTC s Current Report on Form 8-K (Commission file number 1-812) filed with the
SEC on December 12, 2008.   

4.1    
      
  Amended and Restated Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2001, between UTC and The Bank of New York, as trustee, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to UTC s Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (Commission file number 333-60276) filed with the SEC on May 4, 2001. UTC hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of each other instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of UTC and its consolidated
subsidiaries and any unconsolidated subsidiaries.   

10.1    
      
  United Technologies Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to UTC s Proxy Statement for the 1975 Annual Meeting of Shareowners,
and Amendment No. 1 thereto, effective January 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and Amendment No. 2 thereto, effective
January 1, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.   

10.2    
      
  United Technologies Corporation Executive Estate Preservation Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(iv) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for
fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.   

10.3    
      
  United Technologies Corporation Pension Preservation Plan, as amended and restated, effective December 31, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to UTC s Annual Report on Form
10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.   

10.4    
      
  United Technologies Corporation Senior Executive Severance Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(vi) to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal
year ended December 31, 1992, as amended by Amendment thereto, effective December 10, 2003, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003,
and Amendment thereto, effective June 11, 2008, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of UTC s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2008, and Amendment thereto, dated February
4, 2011.*   

10.5    
      
  United Technologies Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of UTC s Annual Report on Form
10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.   

10.6    
      
  United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year
ended December 31, 1989, as amended by Amendment No. 1, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, and Amendment No. 2, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.6 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.   

10.7    
      
  Schedule of Terms for Nonqualified Stock Option and Dividend Equivalent Awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended (referred to above in
Exhibit 10.6), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to UTC s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-812) for fiscal year ended December 31, 2004.   

10.8    
      
  Schedule of Terms and Form of Award for Restricted Stock Awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended (referred to above in Exhibit 10.6),
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to UTC s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004.   

10.9    
      
  Schedule of Terms and Form of Award for Nonqualified Stock Option Awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended (referred to above in Exhibit
10.6), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to UTC s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2004.   

10.10  
      
  Schedule of Terms and Forms of Award for Continuous Improvement Incentive Program Non-qualified Stock Option and Dividend Equivalent Awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation
Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended (referred to above in Exhibit 10.6), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to UTC s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended September 30,
2004.   

10.11  
      
  United Technologies Corporation Executive Leadership Group Program, as amended and restated, effective June 10, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to UTC s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q (Commission file number 1-812) for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2009.   

10.12  
      
  Schedule of Terms for Restricted Share Unit Retention Awards relating to the United Technologies Corporation Executive Leadership Group Program (referred to above in Exhibit 10.11), effective
December 22, 2010.*    
         21   

Table of Contents  

22   

Table of Contents  

Notes to
Exhibits List :        

*  
  Submitted electronically herewith.        Exhibits 10.1 through 10.32 are
contracts, arrangements or compensatory plans filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 15(b) of the requirements for Form 10-K reports.      Attached as
Exhibit 101 to this report are the following formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three years ended December 31, 2010, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, (iii) Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2010, (iv) Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2010, (v) Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vi) Financial Schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.      In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation
S-T, the XBRL related information in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not
be part of any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
 
  (Registrant)   

By:  
     
  /s/ G REGORY  J. H AYES            

Gregory J. Hayes    

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

By:  
     
  /s/ P ETER  F. L ONGO            

Peter F. Longo    

Vice President, Controller     
   Date:
February 10, 2011      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
     
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ L OUIS  R.
C H NEVERT               (Louis R. Ch nevert)    
     
  Director, Chairman   Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 10, 2011   

/s/ G REGORY  J.
H AYES               (Gregory J. Hayes)    
     
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
     
  February 10, 2011   

/s/ P ETER  F.
L ONGO               (Peter F. Longo)    
     
    Vice President, Controller     (Principal Accounting
Officer)   
     
  February 10, 2011   

/s/ J OHN  V. F ARACI 
*              (John V. Faraci)    
     
  Director  

/s/ J EAN -P IERRE 
G ARNIER *              (Jean-Pierre Garnier)    
     
  Director  

/s/ J AMIE  S. G ORELICK 
*              (Jamie S. Gorelick)    
     
  Director  

/s/ E DWARD  A. K ANGAS 
*              (Edward A. Kangas)    
     
  Director  

/s/ E LLEN  J. K ULLMAN 
*              (Ellen J. Kullman)    
     
  Director  

/s/ C HARLES  R. L EE 
*              (Charles R. Lee)    
     
  Director  

/s/ R ICHARD  D. M C C ORMICK 
*              (Richard D. McCormick)    
     
  Director  

24   

Table of Contents  

Signature    
     
     Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ H AROLD  W. M C G RAW  III
*              (Harold W. McGraw III)    
     
  Director  

/s/ R ICHARD  B. M YERS 
*              (Richard B. Myers)    
     
  Director  

/s/ H. P ATRICK  S WYGERT 
*              (H. Patrick Swygert)    
     
  Director  

/s/ A NDR   V ILLENEUVE 
*              (Andr  Villeneuve)    
     
  Director  

/s/ C HRISTINE  T ODD  W HITMAN 
*              (Christine Todd Whitman)    
     
  Director  

*By:  
     
  /s/ C HARLES  D. G ILL            

Charles D. Gill    

Senior Vice President and       General Counsel, as Attorney-in-Fact         Date: February 10, 2011   
         25   

Table of Contents  

       SCHEDULE I      
   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON        FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE       To the Board of Directors   
  of United Technologies Corporation:      Our audits of the consolidated
financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 10, 2011 appearing in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareowners of United Technologies Corporation (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Hartford, Connecticut      February 10, 2011   
         S-I   

Table of Contents  

       SCHEDULE II      
   UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        Three Years Ended December 31, 2010    
   (Millions of Dollars)        
 
         S-II   

<EX-10.4>
 2
 dex104.htm
 UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN

United Technologies Corporation Senior Executive Severance Plan 

Exhibit 10.4        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        SENIOR EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN    
   AMENDMENT       WHEREAS, the Board
of Directors has from time to time, approved modifications to benefits and contract terms under the Senior Executive Severance Plan (the  Plan ), resulting in different benefits, terms and conditions for Participants, depending on their
date of participation;      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors wishes to provide the same level of benefits and contract terms for all
executives covered by the Plan;      WHEREAS, each Participant has agreed to amend their Plan Agreement to provide, in the event of a Change
in Control, a cash severance benefit equal to 2.99 times base salary and target bonus following an involuntary termination or termination following a material adverse change in job responsibilities, location, compensation, or benefits (i.e. a
termination for  Good Reason       WHEREAS, each Participant has agreed to the following benefit reductions to the extant their
own agreements provided for any of the following benefits:       

(i)  
  Elimination of three years of additional pension service credit and benefit continuation;     

(ii)  
  Elimination of reimbursement for excise taxes imposed under Internal Revenue Code Section 280(G) and income taxes due on such reimbursement; and     

(iii)  
  Elimination of the ability to resign from the Corporation following a Change in Control and receive Plan benefits. Plan benefits will be provided only if the Participant is
involuntarily terminated or terminates for  Good Reason  (as defined in Attachments A and B); and        WHEREAS, the
Board of Directors has closed the Plan to new Participants effective June 15, 2009;      NOW THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as
follows:       

1.  
  The following paragraph shall be added under the Section captioned   Agreements  :     
  Each Participant who became covered under the Plan prior to December 10, 2003 shall enter into an amendment of their Plan Agreement
substantially in the form set forth in Attachment A and each Participant who became covered under the Plan after December 10, 2003 shall enter into an amendment of their Plan Agreement substantially in the form set forth in Attachment B (the
 Amendment ). Plan benefits will be limited in accordance with each Participant s amended Agreement, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or Agreement as in effect prior to the date of such Amendment.   

2.  
  The following paragraph is hereby added to the Plan following the Section captioned   Miscellaneous  :     
    Closure of the Plan.   Effective June 15, 2009, no executive or other person shall become a Participant under this Plan.

Attachment A       Senior Executive Severance Agreement      Amendment   
  WHEREAS,
                          , (the  Executive ) has been selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation to
participate in the Senior Executive Severance Plan (the  Plan  and      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has, from time to time,
amended the Plan prospectively for new Executives; and      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has approved the amendment of existing Senior
Executive Plan Agreements for the purpose of conforming certain Plan benefits and benefit eligibility requirements to those specified by the most recent amendment to the Plan adopted effective June 11, 2008; and   
  WHEREAS, the Executive hereby consents and agrees to such a conforming amendment of his Agreement, including for the purposes of:
(i) prohibiting the payment of benefits for voluntary termination unless such resignation of employment is for  Good Reason , as defined herein; and (ii) modifying and reducing certain change in control severance related benefits
presently provided for in his Agreement;.      NOW THEREFORE, the Executive and the Corporation hereby agree to amend the Executive s
Agreement as follows:       

1.  
  The paragraph that immediately precedes Section A is hereby deleted and the following is substituted in lieu thereof:     
  The Executive shall be entitled to the benefits provided for in this Agreement In the event the Corporation or any subsidiary or affiliate
terminates the Executive s employment within two years after a Change in Control. The Executive will not receive these benefits if employment terminates by reason of death, disability, retirement on or after normal retirement age or if the
Executive voluntarily terminates employment, unless such voluntary termination is for  Good Reason . Good Reason shall mean, without the Executive s express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:

(i)  
  The assignment of the Executive to duties materially inconsistent with the Executive s authorities, duties, responsibilities, and status (including reporting relationships)
as an employee of the Corporation, or a reduction or alteration in the nature or status of the Executive s authorities, duties, or responsibilities from those in effect immediately preceding the Change of Control;     

(ii)  
  The Corporation s requiring the Executive to be based at a location which is at least fifty (50) miles further from the current primary residence than is such residence
from the Corporation s current headquarters, except for required travel on the Corporation s business to an extent substantially consistent with the Executive s business obligations immediately preceding the Change of Control;

(iii)  
  A reduction by the Corporation in the Executive s base salary as in effect on the Effective Date or as the same shall be increased from time to time;

(iv)  
  A material reduction in the Executive s level of participation in any of the Corporation s short- and/or long-term incentive compensation plans, or employee benefit or
retirement plans, policies, practices, or arrangements in which the Executive participates, from the levels in place during the fiscal year immediately preceding the Change of Control; provided, however, that reductions in the levels of
participation in any such plans shall not be deemed to be  Good Reason  if the Executive s reduced level of participation or benefits in each such program remains substantially consistent with the average level of participation of
other executives who have positions commensurate with the Executive s position; or         

(v)  
  The failure of the Corporation to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to the Corporation to assume and agree to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
       In the event of any of the foregoing occurrences, the Executive shall notify the Corporation of the event
constituting the basis for a termination for Good Reason. The Corporation may then take action to cure the Good Reason event or condition. If the Corporation does not remedy the basis for a Good Reason termination within 30 days of receipt of notice
from the Executive, the Executive may then terminate his employment for Good Reason and qualify for the benefits provided for in this Agreement.      The existence of Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive s temporary incapacity due to physical or mental illness not constituting a Disability. The Executive s Retirement shall constitute a
waiver of the Executive s rights with respect to any circumstance constituting Good Reason. The Executive s continued employment shall not constitute a waiver of the Executive s rights with respect to any circumstance constituting
Good Reason.   
         -2-   

2.  
  Section A of the Agreement is amended and restated as follows:         

A.   
    Lump Sum Cash Payment  . On or before the Executive s last day of employment with the Corporation, the Corporation will pay to the Executive, as compensation for
services rendered to the Corporation, a lump sum cash amount (subject to any applicable payroll or other taxes required to be withheld) equal to 2.99 multiplied by the sum of (a) the Executive s current annual base salary plus (b) the
amount of incentive compensation award that would be payable to the Executive in respect of the calendar year in which the Change in Control occurs, calculated on the basis of target level performance. (The incentive compensation referred to in this
paragraph is that amount paid or payable under the Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, or any successor plans, of the Corporation.) In the event there are fewer than thirty-six (36) whole or partial months remaining from the date of
the Executive s termination to his or her normal retirement date, the amount calculated in this paragraph will be reduced by multiplying it by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of whole or partial months so remaining to his normal
retirement date and the denominator of which is thirty-six (36).         

3.  
  Section B of the Agreement is amended and restated as follows:         

B.   
      Long Term Incentive Awards.           

(i)  
    Performance Based Long Term Incentive Awards .  Performance based Long Term Incentive Awards granted under the Corporation s 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (and
any predecessor or successor long term incentive plan) shall vest as of the date of the Change in Control. The value of any such award will be determined on the basis of target level performance unless actual measured performance exceeds target, in
which case actual performance will determine vesting and award value.         

(ii)  
    Vesting of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights  . The vesting period for stock option and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Long Term Incentive
Plan (and any predecessor or successor long term incentive plan) will be changed, effective as of the date of the Change in Control, to the earlier of: (i) the   scheduled   vesting date; or (ii) the one year anniversary of the
date the award was granted. In addition, regardless of the Executive s age or retirement eligibility, the period to exercise stock options and stock appreciation rights will not be less than seven months following termination of employment.

4.  
  Section C,   Special Retirement Benefits   is hereby deleted from the Agreement. There will be no enhancement to pension benefits by reason of a Change in Control.

5.  
  Section D,   Other Provisions   is hereby amended as follows:         

(a)  
  Subsection (i),   Insurance and Other Special Benefits   is deleted in its entirety. The Executive s right to extended coverage under health, life insurance,
disability and other benefit plans following termination of employment shall be determined in accordance with the terms of such plans as then in effect and shall not be enhanced by reason of a Change in Control. There will be no post-termination
continuation of fringe benefits.         

(b)  
  Subsection (ii),   Relocation Assistance   is deleted in its entirety.     

(c)  
  Subsection (iii),   Incentive Compensation   is deleted in its entirety, provided however, that deletion of this subsection is not intended and shall not be
construed to eliminate or reduce the Executive s right to any Annual Incentive Compensation Plan award that may be payable in accordance with the terms of such plan.     

(d)  
  Subsection (iv),   Savings and Other Plans   is deleted in its entirety.     

6.  
  Section E,   Certain Additional Payments by the Corporation   is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following:     

E.  
    Taxes .  The Executive shall be responsible for all taxes due on payments and benefits provided under this Agreement, including any excise taxes that may be due under
Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. The Corporation shall withhold taxes to the extent required by law.     
         -3-   

7.  
  The following subsection shall be added to Section G of the Agreement:         

(vii)  
    Compliance with Section 409A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if and to the extent that rights or payments provided here are determined
to be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Executive agrees to make any amendments to this Agreement that may be required to comply with Section 409A. If the Executive is a  specified employee  under
Section 409A, any payments subject to Section 409A will be deferred for six months from the date of termination of employment, to the extent required by Section 409A. Any deferred payments shall be credited with interest at the rate
credited to fixed income accounts in the Corporation s Deferred Compensation Plan.        Any capitalized terms used herein
shall have the same meaning as defined in the Agreement or Plan, as applicable. The Agreement continues in full force and effect except for the provisions specifically amended herein.   
         -4-   

Attachment B       Senior Executive Severance Agreement      Amendment   
  WHEREAS,
                           (the  Executive ) has been selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation to
participate in the Senior Executive Severance Plan (the  Plan  and      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has, from time to time,
amended the Plan prospectively for new Executives; and      WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has approved the amendment of existing Senior
Executive Plan Agreements for the purpose of conforming certain Plan benefits and benefit eligibility requirements to those specified by the most recent amendment to the Plan adopted effective June 11, 2008; and   
  WHEREAS, the Executive hereby consents and agrees to such a conforming amendment of his Agreement, including for the purposes of:
(i) prohibiting the payment of benefits for voluntary termination unless such resignation of employment is for  Good Reason , as defined herein; and (ii) modifying and reducing certain change in control severance related benefits
presently provided for in his Agreement;.      NOW THEREFORE, the Executive and the Corporation hereby agree to amend the Executive s
Agreement as follows:       

1.  
  The paragraph that immediately precedes Section A is hereby deleted and the following is substituted in lieu thereof:     
  The Executive shall be entitled to the benefits provided for in this Agreement In the event the Corporation or any subsidiary or
affiliate terminates the Executive s employment within two years after a Change in Control. The Executive will not receive these benefits if employment terminates by reason of death, disability, retirement on or after normal retirement age or
if the Executive voluntarily terminates employment, unless such voluntary termination is for  Good Reason . Good Reason shall mean, without the Executive s express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:

(i)  
  The assignment of the Executive to duties materially inconsistent with the Executive s authorities, duties, responsibilities, and status (including reporting relationships)
as an employee of the Corporation, or a reduction or alteration in the nature or status of the Executive s authorities, duties, or responsibilities from those in effect immediately preceding the Change of Control;     

(ii)  
  The Corporation s requiring the Executive to be based at a location which is at least fifty (50) miles further from the current primary residence than is such residence
from the Corporation s current headquarters, except for required travel on the Corporation s business to an extent substantially consistent with the Executive s business obligations immediately preceding the Change of Control;

(iii)  
  A reduction by the Corporation in the Executive s base salary as in effect on the Effective Date or as the same shall be increased from time to time;

(iv)  
  A material reduction in the Executive s level of participation in any of the Corporation s short- and/or long-term incentive compensation plans, or employee benefit or
retirement plans, policies, practices, or arrangements in which the Executive participates, from the levels in place during the fiscal year immediately preceding the Change of Control; provided, however, that reductions in the levels of
participation in any such plans shall not be deemed to be  Good Reason  if the Executive s reduced level of participation or benefits in each such program remains substantially consistent with the average level of participation of
other executives who have positions commensurate with the Executive s position; or         

(v)  
  The failure of the Corporation to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any successor to the Corporation to assume and agree to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
       In the event of any of the foregoing occurrences, the Executive shall notify the Corporation of the event
constituting the basis for a termination for Good Reason. The Corporation may then take action to cure the Good Reason event or condition. If the Corporation does not remedy the basis for a Good Reason termination within 30 days of receipt of notice
from the Executive, the Executive may then terminate his employment for Good Reason and qualify for the benefits provided for in this Agreement.      The existence of Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive s temporary incapacity due to physical or mental illness not constituting a Disability. The Executive s Retirement shall constitute a
waiver of the Executive s rights with respect to any circumstance constituting Good Reason. The Executive s continued employment shall not constitute a waiver of the Executive s rights with respect to any circumstance constituting
Good Reason.   
         -5-   

2.  
  Section A of the Agreement,   Lump Sum Cash Payment   is amended by deleting clause (b) of the first sentence ( (b) the amount of the Executive s
most recent incentive compensation award ) and restating it as follows:         

(b)  
  the amount of incentive compensation award that would be payable to the Executive in respect of the calendar year in which the Change in Control occurs, calculated on the basis
of target level performance.         

3.  
  Section B,   Certain Additional Payments by the Corporation   is deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following:     

B.  
    Taxes.   The Executive shall be responsible for all taxes due on payments and benefits provided under this Agreement, including any excise taxes that may be due under
Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. The Corporation shall withhold taxes to the extent required by law.         

4.  
  The following subsection shall be added to Section D of the Agreement:         

(viii)    
    Compliance with Section 409A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if and to the extent that rights or payments provided here are determined
to be subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Executive agrees to make any amendments to this Agreement that may be required to comply with Section 409A. If the Executive is a  specified employee  under
Section 409A, any payments subject to Section 409A will be deferred for six months from the date of termination of employment, to the extent required by Section 409A. Any deferred payments shall be credited with interest at the rate
credited to fixed income accounts in the Corporation s Deferred Compensation Plan.        Any capitalized terms used herein
shall have the same meaning as defined in the Agreement or Plan, as applicable. The Agreement continues in full force and effect except for the provisions specifically amended herein.   
         -6-   

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.12>
 3
 dex1012.htm
 SCHEDULE OF TERMS FOR RESTRICTED SHARE UNIT RETENTION AWARDS

Schedule of Terms for Restricted Share Unit Retention Awards 

Exhibit 10.12        United Technologies Corporation        Long Term Incentive Plan    
   Executive Leadership Group    
   Restricted Share Unit Retention    
   Award         Schedule of Terms
       United Technologies Corporation (the  Corporation ) hereby awards to the executive designated in the Statement of Award (the
 Recipient ), who has accepted membership in the Corporation s Executive Leadership Group (the  ELG ), Restricted Share Units (an  Award ) pursuant to the United Technologies Corporation 2005 Long Term Incentive
Plan as amended and restated on April 9, 2008, including subsequent amendments (the  LTIP ). The Award is subject to this Schedule of Terms and the terms, definitions, and provisions of the LTIP.   
   Restricted Share Unit       A Restricted Share Unit (an
 RSU ) is equal in value to one share of Common Stock of the Corporation ( Common Stock ). RSUs are convertible into shares of Common Stock if the Recipient remains a member of the ELG and retires from the Corporation on or after
age 62 with at least three years of ELG service (see  Vesting  below).       Acknowledgement and Acceptance of Award    
  The number of RSUs is set forth in the Statement of Award. The Recipient must acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the RSU Award by signing and
returning the appropriate portion of the Statement of Award to the Stock Plan Administrator.       Vesting    
  RSUs vest upon retirement from the Corporation on or after age 62 with completion of at least three years of service as a member of the ELG (the  Vesting
Date ). All RSU s will be forfeited in the event of termination from employment before age 62 for any reason, including death, total and permanent disability and retirement before age 62. All RSU s will also be forfeited if the
Recipient s membership in the ELG ceases for any reason.       No shareowner rights       An RSU is the right to receive a share of Common Stock in the future, subject to continued employment and membership in the ELG. The holder of an RSU has no voting, dividend or other rights accorded to owners of
Common Stock.       Conversion of RSUs/Distribution of Shares       RSUs will be converted into shares of Common Stock, effective as of the date on which the shares are distributed (the  Distribution Date ). If the Recipient is not a Specified Employee on the Vesting
Date, the shares of Common Stock will be distributed on the first business day of the first month following the Vesting Date. Except as provided in the following sentence, if the Recipient is among the Corporation s 50 highest paid employees
(i.e., a  Specified Employee  as defined in the LTIP) on the Vesting Date, the distribution will be made on the first business day of the seventh month following the Vesting Date (or, if later, on July 2, 2012). If the Recipient is a
Specified Employee on the Vesting Date, and the Recipient dies after the Vesting Date and before the scheduled Distribution Date, the shares of Common Stock will be distributed to the Recipient s beneficiary on the first business day of the
first month following the Recipient s death.       Dividend Equivalents       Although the Recipient will not receive dividend payments in respect of RSUs, each RSU will be credited with an amount equal to the dividend paid on a share of Common Stock, resulting in additional RSUs credited to
the Recipient equal in value to the number of RSUs held multiplied by the dividend paid on a share of Common Stock.   

Adjustments    
  If the Corporation effects a subdivision or consolidation of shares of Common Stock or other capital adjustment, the number of RSUs (and the number of shares of
Common Stock that will be issued upon conversion) shall be adjusted in the same manner and to the same extent as all other shares of Common Stock of the Corporation. In the event of material changes in the capital structure of the Corporation
resulting from: the payment of a special dividend (other than regular quarterly dividends) or other distributions to shareowners without receiving consideration therefore; the spin-off of a subsidiary; the sale of a substantial portion of the
Corporation s assets; a merger or consolidation in which the Corporation is not the surviving entity; or other extraordinary non-recurring events affecting the Corporation s capital structure and the value of Common Stock, equitable
adjustments shall be made in the terms of outstanding Awards, including the number of RSUs and underlying shares of Common Stock as the Committee on Compensation and Executive Development of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the
 Committee ), in its sole discretion, determines are necessary or appropriate to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the rights of Award Recipients.       ELG Covenants       Acceptance of the ELG RSU Award constitutes agreement and acceptance by the Recipient of the
following ELG covenants:       

Pre-Vesting Date Covenants          

(a)  
  During the period of the Recipient s employment, and for a period of two years following termination of employment, the Recipient will not disclose  Company
Information .         Company Information  as used in this Agreement means (i) confidential or proprietary
information including without limitation information received from third parties under confidential or proprietary conditions; (ii) information subject to the Corporation s attorney-client or work-product privilege; and (iii) other
technical, business or financial information, the use or disclosure of which might reasonably be construed to be contrary to the Corporation s interests.       

(b)  
  During the Period of the Recipient s employment, and for a period of two years following termination of employment, the Recipient will not initiate, cause or allow to be
initiated (under those conditions which he or she controls) any action which would reasonably be expected to encourage or to induce any employee of the Corporation or any of its affiliated entities to leave the employ of the Corporation or its
affiliated entities. In this regard, the Recipient agrees that he or she will not directly or indirectly recruit any executive or other employee of the Corporation or provide any information or make referrals to personnel recruitment agencies or
other third parties in connection with executives of the Corporation and other employees.         

Post-Vesting Date Covenants          

(c)  
  The pre-Vesting Date covenants described in (a) and (b) above will remain in effect for three years following the Vesting Date.     

(d)  
  To further ensure the protection of Company Information, the Recipient agrees not to accept employment in any form (including entering into consulting relationships or similar
arrangements) for a period of three years after the Vesting Date with any business that: (i) competes directly or indirectly with any of the Corporation s businesses; or (ii) is a material customer of or a material supplier to any of
the Corporation s businesses unless the Recipient has obtained the written consent from the Senior Vice President, Human Resources   Organization (or the successor to such position), which consent shall be granted or withheld in his or
her sole discretion. The Recipient agrees that the terms of this paragraph are reasonable. However, if any portion of this paragraph is held by competent authority to be unenforceable, this paragraph shall be deemed amended to limit its scope to the
broadest scope that such authority determines is enforceable, and as so amended shall continue in effect.         

(e)  
  For three years after the Vesting Date, the Recipient will not make any statements or disclose any items of information which, in either case are or may reasonably be considered
to be adverse to the interests of the Corporation. The Recipient agrees that he or she will not disparage the Corporation, its executives, directors or products.        The ELG covenants set forth in this Schedule of Terms are in addition to other obligations and commitments of the ELG program, the terms and conditions of the LTIP and the Recipient s intellectual property
agreement with the Corporation (and as each may be amended from time to time).       Change of Control    
  In the event of a Change-in-Control of the Corporation, the Committee may, in its discretion, take certain actions with respect to outstanding Awards to assure
fair and equitable treatment of LTIP Award Recipients. However, there will be no adjustment in respect of this RSU Award if the Recipient receives benefits under the Senior Executive Severance Plan as a result of a change in control.   
         -2-   

Nonassignability       Unless otherwise prescribed by the Committee, no assignment or transfer of any right or interest of a Recipient in any RSU, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted
except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempt to assign such rights or interest shall be void and without force or effect.   
   Notices       Every notice or other communication relating to
the LTIP, this Award or this Schedule of Terms shall be delivered electronically or mailed to or delivered to the party for whom it is intended at such address as may from time to time be designated by such party. Notices by the Recipient to the
Corporation shall be mailed to or delivered to the Corporation at its office at United Technologies Building, MS504, Hartford, CT 06101, Attention: Stock Plan Administrator, or emailed to  stockoptionplans@utc.com . All notices by the
Corporation to the Recipient shall be transmitted to the Recipient s email address or mailed to his or her address as shown on the records of the Corporation.       Administration       Awards granted pursuant to the LTIP shall be interpreted and administered by the Committee.
The Committee shall establish such procedures as it deems necessary and appropriate to administer Awards in a manner that is consistent with the terms of the LTIP. The Committee s decision on any matter related to an Award shall be binding and
conclusive.       Awards Not to Affect or Be Affected by Certain Transactions       RSU Awards shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Corporation or its shareowners to effect: (a) any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the
Corporation s capital structure or its business; (b) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation; (c) any issue of bonds, debentures, shares of stock preferred to, or otherwise affecting the Common Stock of the Corporation or the
rights of the holders of such Common Stock; (d) the dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation; (e) any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business; or (f) any other corporate act or proceeding.   
   Taxes/Withholding       Recipients are responsible for any
income or other tax liability attributable to an Award.      The value of the Award as of the Recipient s 62   nd    birthday (or following three years of ELG service, if later) will be subject to FICA
withholding in that same calendar year. The closing price of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of the Recipient s 62   nd    birthday (or on the date when the Recipient completes three years of ELG service, if later) will be used to calculate the value
of the Award.      The closing price of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Distribution Date will be used to calculate income realized from
the vesting of RSUs. The Corporation shall take such steps as are appropriate to assure compliance with applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. The Corporation shall, to the extent required by law, have the right to deduct
directly from any payment or delivery of shares due to a Recipient or from a Recipient s regular compensation, all federal, state and local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of an RSU. Acceptance of an
Award constitutes consent by the recipient to such withholding. Recipients not based in the United States and foreign nationals who are not permanent residents of the United States must pay the appropriate taxes as required by any country where they
are subject to tax. A discussion of U.S. Federal tax treatment of RSUs may be found in the LTIP prospectus.       Right of Discharge Reserved
      Nothing in the LTIP or in any RSU Award shall confer upon any Recipient the right to continue in the employment or service of the Corporation or
any affiliate thereof for any period of time, or affect any right that the Corporation or any subsidiary or division may have to terminate the employment or service of such Recipient at any time for any reason.   
         -3-   

Forfeiture of Interests and Gains       RSUs shall be forfeited if a Recipient is terminated for  cause . Termination for cause means termination related to a violation of the ELG covenants, criminal conduct involving a felony in the U.S. or
the equivalent of a felony under the laws of other countries, material violations of civil law related to the Recipient s job responsibilities, fraud, dishonesty, self-dealing, breach of the Recipient s intellectual property agreement or
willful misconduct that the Committee determines to be injurious to the Corporation. A Recipient will be obligated to repay the value realized from the conversion of RSUs into shares of unrestricted Common Stock if the Recipient violates any of the
ELG covenants, or, if following termination, the Corporation determines that the Recipient engaged in conduct that would have constituted the basis for termination for cause. The foregoing provisions shall be applicable through the Distribution Date
to Recipients who remain employed after age 62.       Nature of Payments       All Awards made pursuant to the LTIP are in consideration of services performed for the Corporation or the business unit employing the Recipient. Any gains realized pursuant to such Awards constitute a special
incentive payment to the Recipient and shall not be taken into account as compensation for purposes of any of the employee benefit plans of the Corporation or any business unit. RSUs will not be funded by the Corporation. In this regard, a
Recipient s rights to RSUs are those of a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       Data Privacy    
  The Corporation maintains electronic records for the purpose of administering the LTIP and individual Awards. In the normal course of plan administration,
electronic data may be transferred to different sites within the Corporation and to outside service providers. Acceptance of an Award constitutes consent by the recipient to the transmission and holding of personal data required for the
administration and management of the Award and the LTIP to the Corporation or its third party administrators within or outside the country in which the recipient resides or works. All such transmission and holding of data shall comply with
applicable privacy protection requirements.       Government Contract Compliance       The  UTC Policy Statement on Business Ethics and Conduct in Contracting with the United States Government  calls for compliance with the letter and spirit of government contracting laws and regulations.
In the event of a violation of government contracting laws or regulations, the Committee reserves the right to revoke any outstanding Award.   
   Interpretations       This Schedule of Terms and each Statement
of Award are subject in all respects to the terms of the LTIP. In the event that any provision of this Schedule of Terms or any Statement of Award is inconsistent with the terms of the LTIP, the terms of the LTIP shall govern. Any question of
administration or interpretation arising under the Schedule of Terms or any Statement of Award shall be determined by the Committee or its delegate, and such determination to be final and conclusive upon all parties in interest.   
   Governing Law       The LTIP, this Schedule of Terms and the
Statement of Award shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.       Additional Information    
  Questions concerning the Plan or Awards and requests for Plan documents shall be directed to:   
  Stock Plan Administrator      United
Technologies Corporation      1 Financial Plaza, MS 504      Hartford, CT 06101      stockoptionplans@utc.com      The Corporation and/or its approved Stock Plan Administrator will send any Award-related communications to the recipient s email address or physical address on record. It is the responsibility of the recipient
to ensure that both the e-mail and physical address on record are up-to-date and accurate at all times to ensure delivery of Award-related communications.   
         -4-   

</EX-10.12>

<EX-11>
 4
 dex11.htm
 STATEMENT RE:  COMPUTATIONS OF PER SHARE EARNINGS

Statement Re:  Computations of Per Share Earnings 

Exhibit 11        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS        

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 5
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE:  COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Statement Re:  Computation of Ratios 

Exhibit 12        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        AND SUBSIDIARIES    
    STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES     

2     
    Reasonable approximation of the interest factor.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 6
 dex13.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2010 

Exhibit 13   FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY    

Note 1     
  Excludes dividends paid on Employee Stock Ownership Plan Common Stock.     

Note 2     
  During 2006, we adopted the accounting related to Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans which resulted in an
approximately $1.8 billion non-cash charge to equity and a $2.4 billion non-cash reduction to total assets. In addition, we early-adopted the measurement date provisions of this standard effective January 1, 2007, which increased
shareowners  equity by approximately $425 million and decreased long-term liabilities by approximately $620 million.     

Note 3   
      The increase in the 2008 debt to total capitalization ratio, as compared to 2007, reflects unrealized losses of
approximately $4.2 billion, net of taxes, associated with the effect of market conditions on our pension plans, and the 2008 debt issuances totaling $2.25 billion. The decrease in the 2009 debt to total capitalization ratio, as compared to 2008,
reflects the reversal of unrealized losses in our pension plans of approximately $1.1 billion, the beneficial impact of foreign exchange rate movement of approximately $1.0 billion, and the reduction of approximately $1.7 billion of total debt.

Note 4   
      The increase in 2010, as compared with 2009, includes the impact of acquisitions across the company, most notably
the 2010 acquisition of the GE Security business within the UTC Fire   Security segment. The increase in the number of employees in 2010 associated with acquisition activity was partially offset by headcount reductions associated with
initiated restructuring actions.     
         1   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS    
      
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
   Business Overview       We are a global provider of
high technology products and services to the building systems and aerospace industries. Our operations are classified into six principal business segments: Otis, Carrier, UTC Fire   Security, Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand
and Sikorsky. Otis, Carrier and UTC Fire   Security are collectively referred to as the  commercial businesses,  while Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky are collectively referred to as the  aerospace
businesses.  Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. We previously reported  Other income, net,  which included  Interest income,  as a component of
 Revenues.   Other income, net,  excluding  Interest income,  is now reflected as a component of  Costs, Expenses and Other,  while  Interest income  is now netted with  Interest expense 
for financial statement presentation.      The commercial businesses generally serve customers in the worldwide commercial and
residential property industries, although Carrier also serves customers in the commercial and transport refrigeration industries. The aerospace businesses serve commercial and government aerospace customers in both the original equipment and
aftermarket parts and services markets. In addition, a portion of these businesses serve customers in certain industrial markets. Our consolidated net sales were derived from the commercial and aerospace businesses as follows (sales from Hamilton
Sundstrand s and Pratt   Whitney s industrial markets are included in  commercial and industrial ):       
 
  In each of 2010 and 2009, approximately 58% of our consolidated sales were original equipment and 42% were aftermarket parts and
services, while in 2008 the amounts were 60% and 40%, respectively.      As worldwide businesses, our operations can be affected by
industrial, economic and political factors on both a regional and global level. To limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on our consolidated operating results, our strategy has been, and continues to be, the
maintenance of a balanced and diversified portfolio of businesses. Our businesses include both commercial and aerospace operations, original equipment manufacturing

(OEM) and extensive related aftermarket parts and services businesses, as well as the combination of shorter cycles in our commercial and industrial businesses, particularly Carrier, and longer
cycles in our aerospace businesses. Our customers include companies in the private sector and governments, and our businesses reflect an extensive geographic diversification that has evolved with the continued globalization of world economies. The
composition of net sales from outside the United States, including U.S. export sales, in dollars and as a percentage of total segment sales, is as follows:       
 
  As part of our growth strategy, we invest in businesses in certain countries that carry high levels of currency, political and/or
economic risk, such as Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, South Africa and countries in the Middle East. At December 31, 2010, the net assets in any one of these countries did not exceed 7% of consolidated shareowners 
equity.      The global economy, which experienced a significant downturn through 2008 and 2009, began showing signs of gradual
improvement in 2010; however, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during the course of 2010 has been uneven. Global gross domestic product growth in 2010 was led by emerging markets. In the developed economies, particularly in Europe
where the recovery is sluggish, the unwinding of fiscal stimuli and lingering high unemployment have encouraged the use of expansionary monetary policies to sustain economic recoveries. Although consumer confidence in the U.S. has improved since the
economic downturn, it remains low, while unemployment remains high and the housing market depressed. Conversely, global aerospace markets are trending favorably with commercial airline traffic, pricing, and capacity utilization continuing to
increase. We are beginning to see a modest recovery in the commercial construction markets in the U.S., although, globally, construction markets remain generally weak, with the exception of some emerging markets. The combination of these market
factors led to consolidated net sales growth of 4%, when compared with 2009, including 2% organic sales growth. The organic sales growth was led by increases at Carrier, Sikorsky and at Pratt   Whitney. These net increases more than offset
the organic sales contraction at both Otis and UTC Fire   Security as certain of their markets have been slower to recover from the economic downturn.   

2   

Despite the uneven economic recovery throughout 2010, our fourth quarter short cycle
shipments and order rates were robust and consistent with our expectations for sales growth in 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2010, as compared with the same period in 2009, commercial aerospace spares orders at Pratt   Whitney and Hamilton
Sundstrand increased 45% and 31%, respectively, and Carrier s shipments of U.S. residential systems improved 9%. For the full year 2010 as compared with 2009, commercial aerospace spares orders at Pratt   Whitney and Hamilton
Sundstrand increased 18% and 16%, respectively, and Carrier s shipments of U.S. residential systems improved 4%. These improvements contributed to the 2% organic sales growth noted above and should also contribute positively to 2011. Orders in
our longer cycle businesses also improved for the full year, as compared with 2009, as Otis new equipment orders grew 7%, global new equipment orders at Carrier s commercial HVAC business grew 7% and total orders at UTC Fire  
Security, driven by the acquisition of the GE Security business, grew approximately 25% year-over-year, as compared with 2009.   
  Consistent with prior years, our backlog includes both short cycle orders that are expected to be realized in the near term, as well as
longer cycle orders that may be recognized over a period of years. With improving end market environments and the expected conversion of a portion of backlog into sales in 2011, we are expecting organic sales growth in 2011 to range from 3% to 5%.
     Although the projected increase in organic growth, if realized, will contribute to operating profit growth, we continue to
invest in new platforms and markets that position us for growth, while remaining focused on structural cost reduction, operational improvements and disciplined cash redeployment. These actions contributed to our earnings growth and operating profit
margin expansion during 2010. The strategies we initiated in late 2008 and early 2009 to address the then expected global economic challenges and volume declines have better positioned us for earnings growth as the global economy recovers. As
disclosed in 2009, we announced a significant restructuring initiative in early 2009 designed to reduce structural and overhead costs across all of our businesses in order to partially mitigate the adverse volume impact. Restructuring costs in 2010
and 2009 totaled $443 million and $830 million, respectively. As a result of the higher sales volumes, the beneficial impact from our continued focus on cost reduction and previously initiated restructuring actions and lower year-over-year
restructuring costs, segment operating margin increased 140 basis points from 13.2% in 2009 to 14.6% in 2010. This year-over-year increase includes a 40 basis point net benefit from lower restructuring charges and non-recurring items. While we
expect to benefit in 2011 from cost reductions realized on the restructuring actions undertaken in prior years, we also expect an adverse impact on operating

profits in 2011 from gross commodity cost increases of approximately $150 million and incremental research and development investment of approximately $175 million.   
  As discussed below in  Results of Operations,  operating profit in each of 2010 and 2009 includes the impact from non-recurring
items including the adverse effect of asset impairment charges in 2010, and the beneficial impact of gains related to business divestiture activities, primarily related to Carrier s ongoing portfolio transformation, in both 2009 and 2010. Our
earnings growth strategy contemplates earnings from organic sales growth, including growth from new product development and product improvements, structural cost reductions, operational improvements, and incremental earnings from our investments in
acquisitions. We invested $2.8 billion (including debt assumed of $39 million) and $703 million in the acquisition of businesses across the entire company in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our investment in businesses in 2010 principally reflects the
acquisitions of the General Electric (GE) Security business and Clipper Windpower Plc (Clipper). Acquisitions in 2009 consisted principally of a number of small acquisitions in both our aerospace and commercial businesses.   
  On March 1, 2010, we completed the acquisition of the GE Security business for approximately $1.8 billion, including debt assumed of
$32 million. The GE Security business, which is being integrated into our UTC Fire   Security segment, supplies security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications through a broad product portfolio that
includes fire detection and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, and video surveillance and access control systems. This business enhanced UTC Fire   Security s geographic diversity with its strong North American presence and also
increased UTC Fire   Security s product and technology offerings. In connection with this transaction, we recorded approximately $600 million of identifiable intangible assets and $1.1 billion of goodwill. The goodwill recorded
reflects synergies expected to be realized through the combination of GE Security s products, resources and management talent with those of the existing UTC Fire   Security business to enhance competitiveness, accelerate the
development of certain product offerings, drive improved operational performance and secure additional service channels. Additionally, the combined businesses have provided the opportunity for significant improvements to the cost structure through
the rationalization of general and administrative expenditures as well as research and development efforts.      During 2010, we
also completed the acquisition of Clipper, a publicly-held California-based wind turbine manufacturer. This investment is intended to expand our power generation portfolio and allow us to enter the wind power market by leveraging our expertise in
blade technology, turbines and gearbox design. In the first half of 2010, we   

3   

acquired a 49.9% equity stake in Clipper. In December 2010, we completed the acquisition of all of the remaining shares of Clipper. The total cost of our investment in Clipper is approximately
 240 million (approximately $385 million). In connection with this transaction, we recorded approximately $400 million of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Prior to the December 2010 purchase of the remaining shares of Clipper,
we accounted for this investment under the equity method of accounting. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we recorded a $159 million other-than-temporary impairment charge, on our investment in Clipper, in order to write-down our
investment to market value as of September 30, 2010. This impairment is recorded within  Other income, net  on our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In December 2010, as a result of the acquisition of a controlling interest and
the remaining shares of Clipper, we recorded a $21 million gain from the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest. The financial results of Clipper are included within the  Eliminations and other  category in the
segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Both acquisition and restructuring costs
associated with a business combination are expensed as incurred. Depending on the nature and level of acquisition activity, earnings could be adversely impacted due to acquisition and restructuring actions initiated in connection with the
integration of the acquisitions.      During 2010, we recorded approximately $86 million of asset impairment charges, for assets
that have met the held-for-sale criteria, related to disposition activity within both Carrier and Hamilton Sundstrand. These asset impairment charges are recorded within Cost of products sold on our Consolidated Statement of
Operations. The asset impairment charges consist of a $58 million charge associated with Carrier s ongoing portfolio transformation to a higher returns business and a $28 million charge at Hamilton Sundstrand related to the expected
disposition of an aerospace business as part of Hamilton Sundstrand s efforts to implement low cost sourcing initiatives.   
  For additional discussion of acquisitions and restructuring, see  Liquidity and Financial Condition,   Restructuring and
Other Costs  and Notes 2 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Results of Operations    
    Net Sales         

The 4% increase in consolidated net sales in 2010, as compared with 2009, reflects organic
sales growth (2%), the beneficial impact of foreign currency translation (1%) and the impact of net acquisitions (1%). The impact of net acquisitions primarily reflects the acquisition of the GE Security business at UTC Fire  
Security, net of the impact of dispositions from the portfolio transformation efforts undertaken at Carrier. As discussed above in the  Business Overview,  the organic sales increase was largely led by Carrier, Sikorsky, and
Pratt   Whitney. These organic increases were partially offset by organic sales contraction at both Otis and UTC Fire   Security. The organic sales growth at Carrier was driven by continuing strength in the transport refrigeration
business, while Sikorsky s growth was primarily attributable to higher military sales. The organic contraction at Otis was due to a decline in new equipment sales as a result of continued commercial and residential market weakness. In addition,
the decline at UTC Fire   Security reflects contraction in the service and install business as a result of weak economic conditions in principal markets.      The 11% decline in consolidated net sales in 2009, as compared with 2008, reflects organic sales contraction (7%), the adverse impact from foreign currency translation (3%) and the impact of net
divestitures (1%) resulting from the portfolio rationalization efforts undertaken, principally at Carrier. The organic decline in net sales reflects volume decreases at most of our businesses resulting from the challenging global economic
conditions experienced during 2009. The depressed residential housing and commercial construction markets drove volume declines across all of our commercial businesses, while declines in aerospace aftermarket sales at both Pratt   Whitney
and Hamilton Sundstrand, coupled with the adverse impact from a depressed business jet market, led to an overall decline in aerospace sales. Record aircraft deliveries at Sikorsky helped to partially mitigate the effect of other aerospace volume
losses.        Cost of Products and Services Sold         

4   

The factors contributing to the total percentage change year-over-year in total cost of
products and services sold are as follows:       
 
  Year-over-year, both total cost of products and services sold and overall sales volumes increased in 2010, as compared with 2009, and
decreased in 2009, as compared with 2008. The year-over-year increase in total cost of products and services sold in 2010, as compared with 2009, reflects an increase in costs as a result of increased sales volumes. Total cost of products and
services sold increased organically (1%) at a rate lower than organic sales growth of 2% reflecting the beneficial impact from operational improvements, cost savings and restructuring actions taken. The 11% year-over-year reduction in 2009 in
total cost of products and services sold, as compared with 2008, primarily reflects a decline in costs associated with the lower organic sales volumes as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency translation.   
    Gross Margin         
 
  The 2010 year-over-year increase in gross margin as a percentage of sales of 150 basis points, was driven primarily by increased volumes
and lower cost of sales resulting from continued focus on cost reductions, savings from previously initiated restructuring actions and net operational efficiencies. Gross margin as a percentage of sales in 2010 also reflects the benefits of the
shift in mix from new equipment sales to higher margin service sales at Otis, the increase in higher margin aerospace aftermarket sales at the aerospace businesses, and the beneficial impact from net acquisition/disposition activity. The beneficial
impact of lower year-over-year restructuring charges (20 basis points) was offset by the adverse impact of asset impairment charges (20 basis points) recorded in 2010, related to disposition activity at Carrier and Hamilton Sundstrand.   
  The 2009 year-over-year decrease in gross margin as a percentage of sales of 30 basis points primarily reflects higher year-over-year
restructuring charges (50 basis points). Continued focus on cost reduction, savings from previously initiated restructuring actions, net operational efficiencies,

margin growth experienced at Otis from lower commodity prices and the continued shift toward higher margin contractual maintenance sales offset the adverse impacts of lower sales volumes,
particularly in our higher margin aerospace aftermarket and transport refrigeration businesses.        Research and Development     

Research and development spending is subject to the variable nature of program development schedules and, therefore, year-over-year
variations in spending levels are expected. The majority of the company-funded spending is incurred by the aerospace businesses and relates largely to the next generation product family at Pratt   Whitney, the Boeing 787 program at Hamilton
Sundstrand, and various programs at Sikorsky. The year-over-year increase in company-funded research and development in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflects increases at Pratt   Whitney associated with the next generation product
family, increases at both Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky as they continue to ramp up new product development programs, and an increase at UTC Fire   Security related to the acquisition in 2010 of the GE Security business. The decrease in
company-funded research and development in 2009, compared with 2008, principally reflects lower expenditures at Pratt   Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand resulting from shifts in the timing of program development activities, lower
requirements on key development programs, and the continued focus on cost reduction. The decrease at Pratt   Whitney was driven largely by the timing of program development activities, while the decrease at Hamilton Sundstrand primarily
reflects lower expenditures on the Boeing 787-8 program with the first flight having taken place in December 2009.   
  Company-funded research and development spending for 2011 is expected to increase by approximately $175 million from 2010 levels as a
result of our continued focus on developing new technologies, led by Pratt   Whitney.      The decrease in customer-funded
research and development in 2010, compared with 2009, was primarily driven by a decrease at Pratt   Whitney related to a reduction in development spending on the Joint Strike Fighter program. The increase in customer-funded research and
development in 2009, compared with 2008, largely reflects increases on various commercial and space programs at Hamilton Sundstrand, and higher development spending on the CH-53K program at

5   

Sikorsky, partially offset by reduced expenditures at Pratt   Whitney on the Joint Strike Fighter development program as it nears completion.   
    Selling, General and Administrative         
 
  The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010, as compared with 2009, is due primarily to a continued focus on
cost reduction and the impact from restructuring and cost saving initiatives undertaken in 2009 in anticipation of adverse economic conditions. These improvements were partially offset by the impact of recent acquisitions. As a percentage of sales,
the 40 basis point year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the impact of lower restructuring costs.      Similar to the
year-over-year change in 2010, the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2009, as compared with 2008, is due primarily to a continued focus on cost reduction and the impact from restructuring and cost saving initiatives
undertaken in 2008 and 2009 in anticipation of adverse economic conditions. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 10 basis points from 2008 to 2009 reflecting higher restructuring costs (approximately 30
basis points) and lower sales volumes. The benefit from cost reduction actions in such areas as travel, employee attrition, employee salary related reductions, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange more than offset the adverse impact of the
higher restructuring costs.        Other Income, Net         
 
  Other income, net includes the operational impact of equity earnings in unconsolidated entities, royalty income, foreign exchange gains
and losses as well as other ongoing items and non-recurring items. The year-over-year change in other income, net in 2010, as compared with 2009, largely reflects a $159 million other-than-temporary impairment charge recorded in 2010 on our then
equity investment in Clipper in order to bring the investment to market value, the absence of an approximately $60 million gain recognized in 2009 from the contribution of the majority of Carrier s U.S. Residential Sales and Distribution
business into a new venture, the absence of a $52 million gain recognized in 2009 at Otis on the re-measurement to fair value of an interest in a joint

venture as well as the absence of gains from 2009 related to business divestiture activity across the company. The decline in other income, net year-over-year also reflects the adverse impact
from an approximately $30 million valuation allowance charge recorded in 2010 related to an unconsolidated foreign venture at Carrier, equity losses associated with our recently acquired Clipper business, and costs associated with the early
extinguishment of some debt in 2010. These adverse impacts were partially offset by a $21 million non-taxable gain recognized in the fourth quarter of 2010 on the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest in Clipper
resulting from the purchase of a controlling interest.      The year-over-year change in other income, net in 2009, as compared
with 2008, largely reflects the absence of gains from the sale of marketable securities, lower royalties across the businesses, lower net year-over-year gains on various fixed asset disposals, lower joint venture equity income at Carrier, and lower
net year-over-year gains generated from business divestiture activity. These decreases were partially offset by lower net hedging costs on our cash management activities in 2009.        Interest Expense, Net         
 
  The increase in interest expense in 2010 as compared with 2009 largely reflects the impact of long-term debt issuances during the course
of the year, partially offset by the absence of interest associated with the early redemption and repayment of long-term debt in 2010. Interest expense on our long-term debt increased as a result of the issuance of two series of fixed rate long-term
notes totaling $2.25 billion in February 2010 (see further discussion in the  Liquidity and Financial Condition  section). This impact was partially offset by the absence of interest associated with the repayment at maturity in May 2010 of
our $600 million of 4.375% notes due 2010, the early redemption in June 2010 of the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of our 7.125% notes that would have otherwise been due November 2010, and the early redemption in September 2010 of
the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of our 6.350% notes that would have otherwise been due March 2011. Aside from the impact of debt repayments and redemptions noted above, the additional

6   

interest associated with the issuance of the long-term debt in February 2010 was also partially offset by the absence of interest related to the repayment in June 2009 of our $400 million 6.500%
notes due 2009. Interest expense also reflects the lower cost associated with our commercial paper borrowings. Interest income in 2010 includes a favorable pre-tax interest adjustment of approximately $24 million associated with the resolution of an
uncertain temporary tax item in the second quarter.      The increase in interest expense in 2009, as compared with 2008, is
primarily attributable to higher interest charges related to our deferred compensation plan. Increased interest expense resulting from the issuances of $1.25 billion and $1.0 billion of long-term debt in December and May 2008, respectively, was
partially offset by lower interest expense resulting from the absence of interest on $933 million in notes that were redeemed in 2009 and to the lower cost associated with our commercial paper borrowings. The redemptions as well as the lower cost of
borrowing noted above resulted in a decline in the average interest rate in 2009 as compared with 2008. Interest income in 2009 includes $17 million of favorable pre-tax interest income adjustments pertaining to global tax examination activity
related primarily to the completion of our review of the 2004 to 2005 Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit report.      The
weighted-average interest rate applicable to debt outstanding at December 31, 2010 was 6.3% for short-term borrowings and 5.9% for total debt as compared to 4.8% and 6.1%, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The three month LIBOR rate as
of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 0.3%, 0.3% and 1.4%, respectively.        Income Taxes     

The effective income tax rates for 2010, 2009 and 2008 reflect tax benefits associated with lower tax rates on international earnings,
which we intend to permanently reinvest outside the United States. The 2010 effective income tax rate increased as compared to 2009 due to the absence of certain discrete items which had a net favorable impact in 2009, as disclosed below. The 2010
effective income tax rate reflects a non-recurring tax expense reduction associated with management s decision to repatriate additional high tax dividends from the current year to the U.S. in 2010 as a result of recent U.S. tax legislation.
This is partially offset by the non-deductibility of impairment charges, the adverse impact from the health care legislation related to the Medicare Part D program and other increases to UTC s effective income tax rate.

The 2009 effective income tax rate reflects approximately $38 million of tax expense
reductions relating to re-evaluation of our liabilities and contingencies based on global examination activity during the year including the IRS s completion of 2004 and 2005 examination fieldwork and our related protest filing. As a result of
the global examination activity, we recognized approximately $18 million of associated pre-tax interest income adjustments during 2009.      The 2008 effective income tax rate reflects approximately $62 million of tax expense reductions, principally relating to re-evaluation of our liabilities and contingencies based upon resolution of
disputed tax matters with the Appeals Division of the IRS for tax years 2000 through 2003.      We expect our full year annual
effective income tax rate in 2011 to be approximately 30.5%. As a result of 2010 U.S. tax legislation and the impact on our tax rate, we anticipate variability in the tax rate quarter to quarter with a higher rate in the first half of 2011. This is
due to the tax impacts associated with planned internal legal entity reorganizations that are expected to occur during 2011 with completion of the predominant portion of these projects expected in the second half.   
  For additional discussion of income taxes, see  Critical Accounting Estimates   Income Taxes  and Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.        Net Income and Earnings Per Share     

Although the average foreign exchange rate of the U.S. dollar was stronger in 2010, as compared to 2009, against certain currencies such
as the Euro, the impact of foreign currency generated a net positive impact of $.12 per diluted share on our operational performance in 2010. This year-over-year impact primarily represents the beneficial impact of hedging at Pratt  
Whitney Canada (P WC), which more than offset the net adverse foreign currency translation impact. The weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar in 2010 generated an adverse foreign currency translation impact as the majority of
P WC s sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of its costs are incurred in local currencies. To help mitigate the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates on our operating results, we maintain foreign
currency hedging programs, the majority of which are   

7   

entered into by P WC. As a result of hedging programs currently in place, P WC s 2011 full year operating results are expected to include an adverse impact of hedging of $75 million.
In 2009, foreign currency generated an adverse impact on our operational results of $.22 per share while in 2008, foreign currency had a favorable impact of $.06 per share. For additional discussion of foreign currency exposure, see  Market
Risk and Risk Management   Foreign Currency Exposures.       Diluted earnings per share for 2010 include a net charge of
$.29 per share from restructuring and non-recurring items. Besides the restructuring charges of $443 million, non-recurring items included the $159 million other-than-temporary impairment charge on our investment in Clipper, $86 million of asset
impairment charges related to disposition activity within both Carrier and Hamilton Sundstrand, a $140 million net tax benefit associated with management s decision to repatriate additional high tax dividends from the current year to the U.S.
in 2010 and 2011 as a result of recent U.S. tax legislation, an approximately $55 million net tax benefit associated with the completion of the acquisition of all the remaining shares of Clipper, $53 million of net gains from dispositions related to
Carrier s ongoing portfolio transformation, a favorable pre-tax interest adjustment of $24 million associated with the resolution of an uncertain tax item, and a $21 million non-cash, non-taxable gain recognized on the re-measurement to fair
value of our previously held equity interest in Clipper.       Restructuring and Other Costs       We recorded net pre-tax restructuring and other costs totaling $443 million in 2010 and $830 million in 2009 for new and ongoing restructuring actions. We recorded these charges in the segments as
follows:       
 
  The 2010 charges consist of $283 million in cost of sales, $159 million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $1 million in
other income, net, and, as described below, primarily relate to actions initiated during 2010 and 2009. Restructuring costs reflected in Eliminations and other largely reflect curtailment charges required under our domestic

pension plans due to the significant headcount reductions associated with the various restructuring actions. The 2009 charges consist of $420 million in cost of sales, $364 million in selling,
general and administrative expenses and $46 million in other income, net. The 2009 charges relate principally to actions initiated during 2009.      Restructuring actions are an essential component of our operating margin improvement efforts and relate to both existing operations and those recently acquired. As a result of the severity of the global
economic downturn, the level of restructuring initiated in 2009 was significantly in excess of that incurred in prior years. These actions were initiated to help mitigate the impact of the global economic downturn and better position us for a
resumption of expected future earnings growth. When completed, these actions will result in global employment reductions, primarily in overhead and selling, general and administrative functions of approximately 14,400. We have also acquired certain
businesses at beneficial values in past years, such as Kidde and Initial Electronic Security Group (IESG), with the expectation of restructuring the underlying cost structure in order to bring operating margins up to expected levels. Restructuring
actions typically focus on streamlining costs through workforce reductions, the consolidation of manufacturing, sales and service facilities, and the transfer of work to more cost-effective locations. For acquisitions prior to January 1, 2009,
the costs of restructuring actions at the acquired company contemplated at the date of acquisition are recorded under purchase accounting and actions initiated subsequently are recorded through operating results by being expensed. However, effective
January 1, 2009 under the Business Combinations Topic of the FASB ASC, restructuring costs associated with a business combination are expensed. We expect to incur additional restructuring costs in 2011 of approximately $150 million to $200
million, including trailing costs related to prior actions, associated with our continuing cost reduction efforts and to the integration of acquisitions. The expected adverse impact on earnings in 2011 from anticipated additional restructuring costs
is expected to be offset by the beneficial impact from non-recurring items. Although no specific plans for significant actions have been finalized at this time, we continue to closely monitor the economic environment and may undertake further
restructuring actions to keep our cost structure aligned with the demands of the prevailing market conditions.       2010 Actions.  During
2010, we initiated restructuring actions relating to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including workforce reductions and consolidation of field operations. We recorded net pre-tax restructuring and other charges totaling $371 million as follows: Otis
$87 million, Carrier $74 million, UTC Fire   Security $64 million, Pratt   Whitney $84 million,   

8   

Hamilton Sundstrand $29 million, Sikorsky $15 million and Eliminations and other $18 million. The charges consist of $221 million in cost of sales and $150 million in selling, general and
administrative expenses. Those costs consist of $301 million for severance and related employee termination costs, $19 million for asset write-downs and $51 million for facility exit, lease termination and other related costs.   
  We expect the actions initiated in 2010, once fully complete, to result in net workforce reductions of approximately 5,000 hourly and
salaried employees, the exiting of approximately 3.9 million net square feet of facilities and the disposal of assets associated with the exited facilities. As of December 31, 2010, we have completed, with respect to the actions initiated
in 2010, net workforce reductions of approximately 2,400 employees, and 300,000 net square feet of facilities have been exited. We are targeting to complete in 2011 the majority of the remaining workforce and facility related cost reduction actions
initiated in 2010. Approximately 70% of the total pre-tax charge will require cash payments, which we have and expect to continue to fund with cash generated from operations. During 2010, we had cash outflows of approximately $107 million related to
the 2010 actions. We expect to incur additional restructuring and other charges of $235 million to complete these actions. We expect recurring pre-tax savings to increase over the two-year period subsequent to initiating the actions to approximately
$350 million annually, of which approximately $64 million was realized in 2010.       2009 Actions.  During 2010, we recorded net pre-tax
restructuring and other charges (reversals) of $85 million for actions initiated in 2009. The 2009 actions relate to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including workforce reductions, the

consolidation of field operations and the consolidation of repair and overhaul operations. We recorded the charges (reversals) in 2010 as follows: Otis ($3 million), Carrier $11 million, UTC
Fire   Security $14 million, Pratt   Whitney $56 million, Hamilton Sundstrand $8 million, and Sikorsky ($1 million). The charges consist of $63 million in cost of sales, $21 million in selling, general and administrative expenses
and $1 million in other income, net. Those costs consisted of $19 million for severance and related employee termination costs, $13 million for asset write-downs and $53 million for facility exit, lease termination and other related costs.
     We expect the actions initiated in 2009, once fully completed, to result in net workforce reductions of approximately 14,400
hourly and salaried employees, the exiting of approximately 4.7 million net square feet of facilities and the disposal of assets associated with the exited facilities. As of December 31, 2010, we have completed, with respect to the actions
initiated in 2009, net workforce reductions of approximately 13,400 employees and exited 1.3 million net square feet of facilities. We are targeting to complete in 2011 the majority of the remaining workforce and all facility related cost
reduction actions initiated in 2009. Approximately 70% of the total pre-tax charge will require cash payments, which we have and expect to continue to fund with cash generated from operations. During 2010, we had cash outflows of approximately $236
million related to the 2009 actions. We expect to incur additional restructuring and other charges of $90 million to complete these actions. We expect recurring pre-tax savings to increase over the two-year period subsequent to initiating the
actions to approximately $700 million annually.      For additional discussion of restructuring, see Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.   
 
    Segment Review        

Commercial Businesses        The financial performance of our commercial businesses can be influenced by a number of external factors including fluctuations in residential and commercial construction activity,

regulatory changes, interest rates, labor costs, foreign currency exchange rates, customer attrition, raw material and energy costs, tightening of credit markets and other global and political
factors. Carrier s financial performance can also be   

9   

influenced by production and utilization of transport equipment, and for its residential business, weather conditions. Geographic and industry diversity across the commercial businesses help to
balance the impact of such factors on our consolidated operating results, particularly in the face of uneven economic growth. Our short cycle markets are recovering as expected and our emerging markets continue to gain traction. We are beginning to
see a modest recovery in the commercial construction markets in the U.S., although they are still weak. Carrier returned to organic sales growth in 2010, led by the transportation businesses. The transport refrigeration markets have benefited from a
resumption of unit replacement demand, while U.S. residential new construction starts remain at low levels. Short cycle shipments and order rates were robust in the fourth quarter of 2010, consistent with our expectations for sales growth in 2011.
     In 2010, 73% of total commercial business sales were generated outside the United States, including U.S. export sales, as
compared to 71% in 2009. The following table shows sales generated outside the United States for each of the commercial business segments:       
 
     Otis    is the world s largest
elevator and escalator manufacturing, installation and service company. Otis designs, manufactures, sells and installs a wide range of passenger and freight elevators for low-, medium- and high-speed applications, as well as a broad line of
escalators and moving walkways. In addition to new equipment, Otis provides modernization products to upgrade elevators and escalators as well as maintenance and repair services for both its products and those of other manufacturers. Otis serves
customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world. Otis sells directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through sales representatives and distributors.   

2010 Compared with 2009       Otis s sales decreased $144 million (1%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The organic sales decline was due to a decrease in new equipment sales volume as a result of lower opening backlog
entering the year, partially offset by a strong volume rebound in China. The decrease in new equipment sales was partially offset by continued growth in the contractual maintenance business. New equipment orders improved 7% versus the prior year,
led by strong order growth in China. Selling prices remained under pressure in most markets.      Otis s operating profits
increased $128 million (5%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. Operational profit improvement (6%) resulted from higher maintenance volume and the benefits from ongoing cost reduction initiatives, more than offsetting the impact of lower new
equipment volume and pricing. The decrease contributed by  Other  primarily reflects the absence of a $52 million gain recognized in 2009 on the re-measurement to fair value of a previously held equity interest in a joint venture resulting
from the purchase of a controlling interest.       2009 Compared with 2008       Otis s sales decreased $1,161 million (9%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The organic sales decline was attributable to a decrease in new equipment sales as difficult economic conditions
adversely impacted global construction. New equipment orders declined 31% versus the prior year, which contributed to lower new equipment sales across all geographic regions.      Otis s operating profits decreased $30 million (1%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. Operational profit improvement resulted from increased volume and improved margins in the contractual
maintenance business, lower commodity costs and the benefits from aggressive cost reduction initiatives. Improved margins in the contractual maintenance business were the result of productivity improvements from restructuring and other cost
reduction actions. The 3% increase contributed by  Other  in 2009 reflects a gain recognized in the second quarter of 2009 on the re-measurement to fair value of a previously held equity interest in a joint venture resulting from the
purchase of a controlling interest, and the absence of provisions for certain accounting issues discovered at a subsidiary in Brazil in late 2008.         Carrier    is the world s largest provider of HVAC and refrigeration solutions, including
controls for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications. Carrier also provides installation, retrofit and aftermarket services for the products it sells and those of other manufacturers in the HVAC and refrigeration
industries. During 2010 and 2009, as   

10   

part of its ongoing business transformation strategy, Carrier completed divestitures of several lower-margin businesses, acquired several higher margin service businesses, and formed ventures in
parts of the U.S., Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia. Carrier s products and services are sold under Carrier and other brand names to building contractors and owners, homeowners, transportation companies, retail stores and food
service companies. Carrier sells directly to the end customer and through manufacturers  representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets. Certain of Carrier s HVAC businesses are seasonal and can be impacted by
weather. Carrier customarily offers its customers incentives to purchase products to ensure an adequate supply of its products in the distribution channels. The principal incentive program provides reimbursements to distributors for offering
promotional pricing on Carrier products. We account for incentive payments made as a reduction to sales.       
 
   2010 Compared with 2009       Carrier s
sales increased $51 million in 2010, as compared with 2009. Organic sales growth of 6% was driven primarily by improvement in the transport refrigeration and Asian and Latin America HVAC markets, partially offset by a decline in the European
commercial HVAC equipment markets. The 7% decrease contributed by  Acquisitions and divestitures, net  in 2010 primarily reflects the net year-over-year impact from the disposition of businesses and the formation of noncontrolling ventures
globally.      Carrier s operating profits increased $322 million (44%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The operational profit
improvement (39%) was largely driven by strong conversion on the organic sales growth, particularly in the higher margin transport refrigeration business, combined with the carry-over benefits of cost reduction and restructuring (combined 54%),
partially offset by increased commodity costs and adverse pricing (17%). The decrease contributed by  Other  primarily reflects the year-over-year net impact of gains and losses resulting from dispositions associated with Carrier s
ongoing portfolio transformation. This includes an approximately $58 million asset impairment charge in 2010 associated with

disposition activity as well as the absence of an approximately $60 million gain recognized in 2009 from the contribution of the majority of Carrier s U.S. Residential Sales and Distribution
business into a new venture formed with Watsco, Inc.       2009 Compared with 2008       Carrier s sales decreased $3,482 million (24%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The decline in organic sales is a result of weak market conditions across all businesses, particularly the higher margin
transport refrigeration business where organic sales declined 37% in 2009.      Carrier s operating profits decreased $576
million (44%) in 2009 compared with 2008 as almost all businesses experienced earnings declines due to unfavorable market conditions. The operational profit decrease was primarily due to the volume decline (57%), especially in our higher margin
transport refrigeration business, the adverse cost impact from worldwide currency shifts (5%), and lower equity income from a joint venture in Japan (2%). These adverse impacts were partially offset by the favorable impact from aggressive cost
reduction and restructuring actions, and lower net commodity costs (net combined 30%). The 1% decrease in  Other  primarily reflects lower gains from net acquisition and divestiture activities. The decrease contributed by
 Acquisitions and divestitures, net  for both sales and operating profits reflects the net year-over-year operational impact from acquisitions and divestitures completed in the preceding twelve months, including the transaction with
Watsco, Inc.         UTC Fire   Security    is a global provider of security and fire safety products and services. UTC Fire   Security provides electronic security products such as intruder alarms, access control systems, and video
surveillance systems and designs and manufactures a wide range of fire safety products including specialty hazard detection and fixed suppression products, portable fire extinguishers, fire detection and life safety systems, and other firefighting
equipment. Services provided to the electronic security and fire safety industries include systems integration, video surveillance, installation, maintenance and inspection services. UTC Fire   Security also provides monitoring, response and
security personnel services, including cash-in-transit security, to complement its electronic security and fire safety businesses. In 2010, we completed the acquisition of the GE Security business from GE. With the acquisition of GE Security, UTC
strengthened its portfolio of security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications, including fire detection and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, video surveillance and access control systems, and also
significantly enhanced UTC Fire   Security s North American presence. UTC Fire   Security products and services are used by governments, financial institutions, architects, building owners and developers, security and fire

11   

consultants and other end-users requiring a high level of security and fire protection for their businesses and residences. UTC Fire   Security provides its products and services under Chubb,
Kidde and other brand names and sells directly to the customer as well as through manufacturer representatives, distributors, dealers and U.S. retail distribution.       
 
   2010 Compared with 2009       UTC Fire  
Security s sales increased $987 million (18%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. Organically, the 3% sales contraction was driven by declines in the service and install businesses, while the products businesses were flat year-over-year.
Geographically, the service and install businesses experienced weakness in Europe and the Americas in 2010 as a result of poor economic conditions, partially offset by growth in Asia. The increase contributed by  Acquisitions and divestitures,
net  reflects the net year-over-year impact from acquisition and divestitures completed in the preceding twelve months, led by the acquisition in March 2010 of the GE Security business.   
  UTC Fire   Security s operating profits increased $221 million (45%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The 2% operational profit
improvement reflects the benefits of integrating operations, restructuring actions taken, and productivity initiatives, partially offset by the impact of organic volume contraction. The increase contributed by  Acquisitions and divestitures,
net  primarily reflects the acquisition in March 2010 of the GE Security business.       2009 Compared with 2008    
  UTC Fire   Security s sales decreased $943 million (15%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. Organic sales contraction was primarily caused by
declines in both the Americas and United Kingdom Fire Safety and Electronic Security businesses.      UTC Fire  
Security s operating profits decreased $49 million (9%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The operational profit improvement was due principally to the integration of field operations, the benefits of net cost reductions from previous
restructuring actions, and the integration and continuing productivity and cost control initiatives which,

when combined, more than offset the impact of the lower sales. The increase contributed by  Acquisitions and divestitures, net  reflects the net year-over-year impact from acquisition
and divestitures completed in the preceding twelve months, including the third quarter of 2009 acquisition of additional shares of GST, a fire alarm system provider in China.        Aerospace Businesses        The financial performance of Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton
Sundstrand and Sikorsky is directly tied to the economic conditions of the commercial aerospace and defense industries. In particular, Pratt   Whitney experiences intense competition for new commercial airframe/engine combinations. Engine
suppliers may offer substantial discounts and other financial incentives, performance and operating cost guarantees, participation in financing arrangements and maintenance agreements. At times, the aerospace businesses also enter into development
programs and firm fixed-price development contracts, which may require the company to bear cost overruns related to unforeseen technical and design challenges that arise during the development stage of the program. Customer selections of engines and
components can also have a significant impact on later sales of parts and service. Predicted traffic levels, load factors, worldwide airline profits, general economic activity and global defense spending have been reliable indicators for new
aircraft and aftermarket orders within the aerospace industry. Spare part sales and aftermarket service trends are affected by many factors, including usage, technological improvements, pricing, regulatory changes and the retirement of older
aircraft. Performance in the general aviation sector is closely tied to the overall health of the economy and is positively correlated to corporate profits.      The commercial airline industry rebounded in 2010 and continues to gain traction, as airlines benefit from airline traffic growth, higher yields and rising load factors. All major U.S. airlines and most
European and Asian airlines returned to profitability in 2010. Airline traffic, as measured by revenue passenger miles (RPMs), grew in 2010, as compared with 2009, and we project RPMs to continue to grow by approximately 6% in 2011. Although
airlines returned to profitability in 2010, rising fuel prices will challenge the airlines in the near term to maintain capacity disciplines, raise fares, and consider the need for more fuel efficient aircraft. We have also seen a favorable trend in
commercial aftermarket growth as airlines were adding capacity to their fleets leading to additional overhaul and repair maintenance requirements. Orders of short cycle commercial aerospace spares grew year-over-year, with 18% growth in Pratt  
Whitney s large commercial spares orders and a 16% increase in Hamilton Sundstrand s commercial spares orders. These increases in order rates have led to a corresponding increase in commercial aerospace aftermarket volume at both Pratt

12   

Whitney and Hamilton Sundstrand, and accordingly, consolidated commercial aerospace aftermarket sales increased 10% in 2010, as compared to 2009. We expect commercial aerospace aftermarket sales
will continue to grow in 2011.      Similar to 2009, the overall business jet market continued to be weak in 2010, reflecting the
conditions from a sluggish global economy and weak corporate profits. Despite this, we are seeing some improvement in business aircraft indicators, including a decrease in used aircraft inventory in 2010, as compared to 2009, although used aircraft
inventory remains high, as well as a reduction in cancellations at business jet manufacturers. However, the level of net orders has not been substantial enough to grow backlogs. As a result of the ongoing market weakness, we do not expect
a recovery in the business jet OEM market until at least 2012. This weakness will continue to put pressure on P WC and corresponding engine shipments although we expect total overall engine shipments at P WC to increase in 2011, as
compared to 2010, due to increases across other platforms, such as helicopters.      Although commercial helicopter deliveries
remained low in 2010, commercial helicopter orders increased towards the second half of 2010, indicative of a potentially healthier market. However, it is not clear whether this level of activity will continue with stability. Uncertainty among
helicopter operators regarding the impact of the offshore drilling moratorium in the U.S. remains, but has been moderated by exploration and production initiatives in developing markets. Strong government military spending continued to drive
military helicopter demand and, as a result, Sikorsky s military backlog remains strong. Consolidated military OEM sales increased 4% in 2010, as compared with 2009, driven by Sikorsky. For 2011, we expect production of U.S. government Black
Hawk and Naval Hawk helicopters at Sikorsky to level off, with demand for international military helicopters increasing.   
  Deficit reduction measures considered by the U.S. government are expected to pressure the U.S. Department of Defense budget in the coming
years, resulting in a decline in U.S. Department of Defense spending. Total sales to the U.S. government of $9.9 billion, $9.3 billion, and $8.0 billion in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, were 18% of total UTC sales in 2010 and 2009, and 14% in
2008. The defense portion of our aerospace business is affected by changes in market demand and the global political environment. Our participation in long-term production and development programs for the U.S. government has contributed positively
to our results in 2010 and is expected to continue to benefit results in 2011.   
     Pratt   Whitney    is among the
world s leading suppliers of aircraft engines for the commercial, military, business jet and

general aviation markets. Pratt   Whitney Global Services provides maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including the sale of spare parts, as well as fleet management services for
large commercial engines. Pratt   Whitney produces families of engines for wide and narrow body aircraft in the commercial and military markets. Pratt   Whitney Power Systems sells aero-derivative engines for industrial
applications. P WC is a world leader in the production of engines powering business, regional, light jet, utility and military aircraft and helicopters and provides related maintenance, repair and overhaul services, including sale of spare
parts, as well as fleet management services. Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne (PWR) is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of sophisticated space propulsion systems for military and commercial applications, including the U.S.
space shuttle program. Pratt   Whitney s products are sold principally to aircraft manufacturers, airlines and other aircraft operators, aircraft leasing companies, space launch vehicle providers and the U.S. and foreign governments.
Pratt   Whitney s products and services must adhere to strict regulatory and market-driven safety and performance standards. The frequently changing nature of these standards, along with the long duration of aircraft engine
development, production and support programs, creates uncertainty regarding engine program profitability. The vast majority of sales are made directly to the end customer and, to a limited extent, through independent distributors and foreign sales
representatives.      Pratt   Whitney is currently developing technology intended to enable it to power proposed and
future aircraft, including the PurePower PW1000G Geared TurboFan engine. The PurePower PW1000G engine targets a significant reduction in fuel burn and noise levels with lower environmental emissions and operating costs than current production
engines. In December 2010, Airbus announced that it will offer the PurePower PW1000G engine as a new engine option to power its A320neo family of aircraft scheduled to enter service in 2016. Additionally, PurePower PW1000G engine models have been
selected by Bombardier to power the new CSeries passenger aircraft and by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries to power the new Mitsubishi Regional Jet (MRJ), scheduled to enter into service in 2013 and 2014, respectively. In 2009, the Irkut Corporation of
Russia also selected the PurePower PW1000G engine to power the proposed new Irkut MC-21 passenger aircraft, which is planned to enter into service in 2016. The success of these aircraft and the PurePower PW1000G engine is dependent upon many factors
including technological challenges, aircraft demand, and regulatory approval. Based on these factors, as well as the level of success of aircraft program launches by aircraft manufacturers and other conditions, additional investment in the PurePower
program may be required.   

13   

In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt  
Whitney has entered into collaboration arrangements in which sales, costs and risks are shared. At December 31, 2010, the interests of third party participants in Pratt   Whitney-directed commercial jet engine programs ranged from 14
percent to 48 percent. In addition, Pratt   Whitney has interests in other engine programs, including a 33 percent interest in the International Aero Engines (IAE) collaboration, which sells and supports V2500 engines for the Airbus A320
family of aircraft. At December 31, 2010, portions of Pratt   Whitney s interests in IAE (equivalent to 4 percent of the overall IAE collaboration) were held by third party participants. Pratt   Whitney also has a 50
percent interest in the Engine Alliance (EA), a joint venture with GE Aviation, which markets and manufactures the GP7000 engine for the Airbus A380 aircraft. At December 31, 2010, 40 percent of Pratt   Whitney s 50 percent
interest in the EA was held by third party participants. Pratt   Whitney continues to pursue additional collaboration partners.       

*  
  As discussed further in the  Business Overview  and  Results of Operations  sections, for Pratt   Whitney only, the transactional impact of
foreign exchange hedging at P WC has been netted against the translational foreign exchange impact for presentation purposes in the above table. For all other segments, these foreign exchange transactional impacts are included within the organic
sales/operational operating profit caption in their respective tables. Due to its significance to Pratt   Whitney s overall operating results, we believe it is useful to segregate the foreign exchange transactional impact in order to
clearly identify the underlying financial performance.         2010 Compared with 2009    
  Pratt   Whitney s sales increased $543 million (4%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. Organic sales were essentially flat year-over-year.
Growth in the large commercial engine business (4%), driven by higher commercial spares and aftermarket sales volumes, and an increase in the military engine business (1%) on higher engine deliveries, were mostly offset by lower sales at
P WC (2%) due to decreased engine sales volume and a decline at Pratt   Whitney Power Systems (2%) from lower industrial sales volumes. The impact from foreign currency

(4%) reflects the beneficial transactional impact of foreign exchange hedging at P WC.      Pratt   Whitney s operating profits increased $152 million (8%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The operational profit decline (3%) primarily reflects higher year-over-year
research and development costs. Lower profits at P WC (9%) driven by decreased engine sales volumes were offset by higher profit contribution from the large commercial engine business (6%) driven by higher commercial spares and
aftermarket sales volumes and an increase in the military engine business (3%).       2009 Compared with 2008    
  Pratt   Whitney s sales decreased $1,457 million (11%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The decrease was primarily attributable to
decreased engine shipments and lower aftermarket volume at P WC (4%), lower commercial spares and aftermarket volume (4%), and the adverse impact of net hedging activity (2%).   
  Pratt   Whitney s operating profits decreased $287 million (14%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The operational
decline was primarily driven by lower aftermarket volumes and decreased engine shipments in the large commercial engine business (9%) and at P WC (5%), partially offset by the favorable impact of lower research and development spending
(6%) and the profit contribution from higher military engine volumes (2%).         Hamilton
Sundstrand    is among the world s leading suppliers of technologically advanced aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for diversified industries worldwide.
Hamilton Sundstrand s aerospace products, such as power generation, management and distribution systems, flight control systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units
and propeller systems, serve commercial, military, regional, business and general aviation, as well as military ground vehicle, space and undersea applications. Aftermarket services include spare parts, overhaul and repair, engineering and technical
support and fleet maintenance programs. Hamilton Sundstrand sells aerospace products to airframe manufacturers, the U.S. and foreign governments, aircraft operators and independent distributors. Hamilton Sundstrand s principal industrial
products, such as air compressors, metering pumps and fluid handling equipment, serve industries involved with chemical and hydrocarbon processing, oil and gas production, water and wastewater treatment and construction. Hamilton Sundstrand sells
these products under the Sullair, Sundyne, Milton Roy and other brand names directly to end   

14   

users, and through manufacturer representatives and distributors.       
 
   2010 Compared with 2009       Hamilton
Sundstrand s sales increased $48 million (1%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The organic sales growth reflects higher volumes in the industrial business (2%), partially offset by a decline in the aerospace business (1%). The
industrial business increase was led by the compressor business attributable to general increases in infrastructure and industrial spending particularly in the U.S. and Asia. The decline within the aerospace business reflects lower OEM sales
volume (2%) partially offset by an increase in the aftermarket business (1%) primarily as a result of higher commercial spares and repair volume.      Hamilton Sundstrand s operating profits increased $61 million (7%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The 8% improvement in operational profit reflects an increase in the industrial business (7%),
reflecting the benefit from higher volumes and cost reduction initiatives, and an increase within the aerospace business (1%). The 1% improvement within aerospace reflects favorable net operating performance, including the benefit of ongoing cost
reduction initiatives, and volume growth from higher margin commercial aftermarket sales partially offset by the impact from adverse mix within OEM sales (net combined 8%). This 8% improvement was mostly offset by higher year-over-year research and
development costs (7%). The decrease contributed by  Other  primarily reflects the impact of an asset impairment charge recorded in 2010 related to the expected disposition of an aerospace business and the absence of a gain from the sale
of a business in 2009.       2009 Compared with 2008       Hamilton Sundstrand s sales decreased $567 million (9%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The organic sales decline reflects lower volumes in both the industrial (4%) and aerospace (3%) businesses. The
decrease within aerospace was primarily attributable to aftermarket volume declines.

Hamilton Sundstrand s operating profits decreased $242 million (22%) in 2009, as
compared with 2008. The decrease in operational profit reflects declines in the aerospace (13%) and industrial (4%) businesses, partially offset by lower year-over-year research and development costs (6%). The 2% decrease in  Other 
primarily reflects the net year-over-year impact of gains recognized in 2008 relating to divestiture activities.         Sikorsky    is the world s largest helicopter company. Sikorsky manufactures military and commercial helicopters and also provides aftermarket
helicopter and aircraft parts and services. In December 2007, the U.S. government and Sikorsky signed a five-year multi-service contract for 537 H-60 helicopters to be delivered to the U.S. Army and U.S. Navy, which include the UH-60M, HH-60M,
MH-60S and MH-60R. The current contract value for expected deliveries over the five year term is approximately $8.5 billion and includes options for an additional 263 aircraft, spare parts, and kits, with the total contract value potentially
reaching $11.6 billion making it the largest contract in UTC and Sikorsky history. Actual production quantities will be determined year-by-year over the life of the program based on funding allocations set by Congress and Pentagon acquisition
priorities. The deliveries of the aircraft are scheduled to be made through 2012. Sikorsky is also developing the CH-53K next generation heavy lift helicopter for the U.S. Marine Corps and the CH-148 derivative of the H-92 helicopter, a military
variant of the S-92 helicopter, for the Canadian government. The latter is being developed under an approximately $3 billion firm, fixed-price contract that provides for the development, production, and 24-year logistical support of 28 helicopters.
This is the largest and most expansive fixed-price development contract in Sikorsky s history. As previously disclosed, in June 2010 Sikorsky and the Canadian government signed contract amendments that revised the delivery schedule and contract
specifications, and established the requirements for the first six interim aircraft deliveries to enable initial operational test and evaluation activities prior to the scheduled delivery of final configuration helicopters starting in June 2012. The
amendments also included modifications to the liquidated damages schedule, readjustment of payment schedules, resolution of open disputes and other program enhancements. Delivery of the interim configuration helicopters was scheduled to commence in
November 2010, but is now expected to begin in the first quarter of 2011. Sikorsky s aftermarket business includes spare parts sales, overhaul and repair services, maintenance contracts and logistics support programs for helicopters and other
aircraft. Sales are principally made to the U.S. and foreign governments, and commercial helicopter operators. Sikorsky is increasingly engaging in logistics support programs and partnering with its government and commercial

15   

customers to manage and provide logistics, maintenance and repair services.       
 
   2010 Compared with 2009       Sikorsky s
sales increased $397 million (6%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The organic sales growth was primarily attributable to higher military aircraft sales (6%), partially offset by the impact of fewer aircraft deliveries from commercial operations (2%)
due to continued commercial market weakness. Sales from aftermarket support increased (2%) primarily driven by higher military sales volume and aircraft modernizations.      Sikorsky s operating profits increased $108 million (18%) in 2010, as compared with 2009. The operational profit improvement was primarily attributable to increased military aircraft sales (15%),
partially offset by a decline in commercial operations (2%) due to unfavorable aircraft configuration mix and fewer deliveries as a result of continued commercial market weakness. Improvement in aftermarket support (4%) was driven by higher military
sales and aircraft modernizations. Higher year-over-year research and development costs were substantially offset by lower manufacturing costs. The 3% increase contributed by  Other  primarily reflects the absence of prior year costs
associated with a union contract ratified in 2009.       2009 Compared with 2008       Sikorsky s sales increased $941 million (18%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The organic sales increase was primarily driven by higher volumes of military aircraft deliveries partially offset by a
reduction in commercial aircraft sales due to a competitive marketplace.      Sikorsky s operating profits increased $130
million (27%) in 2009, as compared with 2008. The operational profit improvement was primarily attributable to increased aircraft deliveries and favorable aircraft mix (41%) within the military market, partially offset by reduced operational profit
(10%) within commercial operations due primarily to a competitive marketplace. The remainder of the increase is primarily comprised of favorable contract adjustments. The 8% decrease in  Other  primarily reflects the adverse impact
associated with a new union contract.   
 
     Eliminations and other        Eliminations and other reflects the elimination of sales, other income and operating profit transacted between segments, as well as the operating results of certain smaller businesses such as UTC Power
and Clipper. The year-over-year change in the operating profit elimination in 2010, as compared with 2009, is primarily attributable to the previously disclosed impairment charge on our investment in Clipper and higher legal costs, partially offset
by the net impact from the absence of certain items in 2009. These prior year items include curtailment charges related to the impact of headcount reductions on our domestic pension plans and to increased inventory reserves and project related
reserves recorded at UTC Power.       Liquidity and Financial Condition    

We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Our principal
source of liquidity is operating cash flows, which, after netting out capital expenditures, we target to equal or exceed net income attributable to common shareowners. In addition to operating cash flows, other significant factors that affect our
overall management of liquidity include: capital expenditures, customer financing requirements, investments in businesses, dividends, common stock repurchases, pension funding, access to the commercial paper markets, adequacy of available bank lines
of credit, and the ability to attract long-term capital at satisfactory terms.      Although the global financial crisis
experienced over the last several years has subsided, the recovery remains fragile and uneven and demand for credit availability remains high. In light of these circumstances, we continue to assess our current business, are closely monitoring the
impact on our customers and suppliers, and have determined that overall there has not been a significant effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during 2010. Due to the substantial improvement in equity markets during
the course of 2010 and 2009, our domestic pension funds experienced a positive return on assets of approximately 15% and 21%, respectively. The continued recognition of prior pension losses and the impact of a lower discount rate, partially offset
by additional funding and the positive returns experienced during 2010, is expected to   

16   

increase pension expense in 2011 by approximately $150 million as compared to 2010.      Approximately 89% of our domestic pension plans are invested in readily-liquid investments, including equity, fixed income, asset backed receivables and structured products. The balance of our domestic
pension plans (11%) is invested in less-liquid but market-valued investments, including real estate and private equity.   
  As discussed further below, our strong debt ratings and financial position have historically enabled us to issue long-term debt at
favorable market rates, including our issuance of $2.25 billion of long-term debt in February 2010. Our ability to obtain debt financing at comparable risk-based interest rates is partly a function of our existing debt-to-total-capitalization level
as well as our current credit standing.      At December 31, 2010, we had new committed revolving credit agreements from banks
permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $3.0 billion under a $1.6 billion revolving credit agreement and a $1.4 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which expire in November 2014 and December 2014, respectively. These new revolving
credit agreements were signed on November 30, 2010 and December 3, 2010, respectively, to replace our former revolving credit agreements which had permitted aggregate borrowings of up to $2.5 billion under a $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement
and a $1.0 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement which were set to expire in October 2011 and November 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there were no borrowings under these revolving credit agreements. The undrawn
portions of our revolving credit agreements are also available to serve as backup facilities for the issuance of commercial paper. In December 2010, our maximum commercial paper borrowing authority was increased from $2.5 billion to $3 billion. In
addition, at December 31, 2010, approximately $2 billion was available under short-term lines of credit with local banks at our various domestic and international subsidiaries.   
  We continue to have access to the commercial paper markets and our existing credit facilities, and expect to continue to generate strong
operating cash flows. While the impact of continued market volatility cannot be predicted, we believe we have sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity and to meet our future
operating cash needs.      Given our extensive international operations, most of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We
manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The repatriation of cash balances from certain
of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences or be subject to capital controls; however, those balances are

generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations. As discussed in Note 10, with few exceptions, U.S. income taxes have not been provided on undistributed
earnings of international subsidiaries. Our intention is to reinvest these earnings permanently or to repatriate the earnings only when it is tax effective to do so.      As also discussed in Note 10, changes in U.S. tax legislation enacted during 2010 led to management s decision to repatriate an increased amount of current year high tax dividends to the U.S. in
2010. The favorable tax benefit generated by these dividends was substantially offset by the tax cost related to the repatriation of other current year earnings. As a result, approximately $2.5 billion of foreign subsidiary cash was repatriated to
the U.S. during 2010, primarily through receipt of dividends from current year earnings, the tax free return of capital, and intercompany loans. These funds were largely used to repay commercial paper borrowings at yearend.   
  On occasion, we are required to maintain cash deposits with certain banks with respect to contractual obligations related to acquisitions
or divestitures or other legal obligations. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the amount of restricted cash was approximately $75 million and $43 million. As of December 31, 2010, all restricted cash was included in current assets. As of December
31, 2009, approximately $41 million of restricted cash was included in current assets and $2 million was included in long-term assets.      We believe our future operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our future operating cash needs. Further, our ability to obtain debt or equity financing, as well as the availability under committed
credit lines, provides additional potential sources of liquidity should they be required.        Cash Flow from Operating Activities     

The increase in cash generated from operating activities in 2010 as compared with 2009, is due to the increase in net income attributable
to common shareowners. Higher working capital cash requirements in 2010 were offset by the net combined improvements in other operational accounts reflecting normal operational activity. Although working capital generated a $525 million cash inflow
in 2010, it was $540 million lower than the approximately $1.1 billion cash inflow generated during 2009. This decline of $540 million in 2010 was primarily driven by improved sales volumes that resulted in higher working capital requirements.
Although working capital levels grew, the rate of growth was restrained due to a strong management focus on base working capital levels.      The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level

17   

of market interest rates. We can contribute cash or company stock to our plans at our discretion, subject to applicable regulations. Total cash contributions to our global defined benefit pension
plans during each of 2010 and 2009 were approximately $1.3 billion. We also contributed $250 million in UTC common stock to these plans during 2010. We did not contribute any UTC common stock to these plans during 2009. As of December 31, 2010,
the total investment by the defined benefit pension plans in our securities was approximately 3% of total plan assets. Improved investment returns and additional voluntary pension contributions during 2010 have improved the funded status of all
plans, helping to minimize future funding requirements. We expect to make contributions of approximately $450 million to our global pension plans in 2011, including approximately $250 million to our domestic plans. Contributions to our defined
pension plans in 2011 are expected to meet or exceed the current funding requirements.        Cash Flow from Investing Activities     

The year-over-year increase in the net use of cash flows from investing activities is largely a result of a $2.1 billion increase in our
cash investment in businesses in 2010 as compared with 2009. The cash investment in businesses across all of our operations in 2010 was approximately $2.8 billion and primarily reflects the acquisition of the GE Security business for approximately
$1.8 billion and the acquisition of Clipper for approximately $350 million. The remainder consisted of a number of small acquisitions in both our aerospace and commercial businesses. Cash investment in businesses across all of our operations in 2009
was $703 million and primarily consisted of a number of small acquisitions in both our aerospace and commercial businesses, including the acquisition of a controlling interest in GST Holdings Limited (GST), a fire alarm system provider in China. The
acquisition of these additional shares in GST was partially funded from cash that was previously restricted. We expect total investments in businesses in 2011 to approximate $1.5 billion; however, actual acquisition spending may vary depending upon
the timing, availability and appropriate value of acquisition opportunities.      Customer financing activities was a net use of
cash of $55 million in 2010, compared to a net use of cash of $91 million for 2009. While we expect that 2011 customer financing activity will be a net use of funds, actual funding is subject to usage under existing customer financing commitments
during the year. We may also arrange for third-party investors to assume a portion of our commitments. We had commercial aerospace financing and other contractual commitments of

approximately $2.0 billion related to commercial aircraft and certain contractual rights to provide product on new aircraft platforms at December 31, 2010; as much as $384 million of the
outstanding commitments may be required to be disbursed during 2011. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of our commercial aerospace industry assets and commitments.   
    Cash Flow from Financing Activities         
 
  The timing and levels of certain cash flow activities, such as acquisitions and repurchases of our stock, have resulted in the issuance
of both long-term and short-term debt. Commercial paper borrowings and revolving credit facilities provide short-term liquidity to supplement operating cash flows and are used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of potential
acquisitions and repurchases of our stock. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2010 or 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the cash that management decided to repatriate to the U.S., as a result of recent U.S. tax law
changes, was largely used to repay commercial paper balances that were outstanding as of September 30, 2010.      In February 2010,
we issued $2.25 billion of long-term debt. We used the net proceeds from these issuances primarily to fund a portion of the acquisition of the GE Security business and to repay commercial paper borrowings. In May 2010, we repaid the entire $600
million outstanding principal amount of our 4.375% notes at maturity. In June 2010, we redeemed the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of our 7.125% notes that would otherwise have been due November 15, 2010 and in September 2010, we
redeemed the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of our 6.350% notes that would otherwise have been due March 1, 2011. In February 2009, we redeemed the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of our LIBOR+.07% floating rate
notes that would otherwise have been due June 1, 2009 at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus interest accrued. In June 2009, we repaid the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 6.500%
notes due 2009 at maturity. In December 2009, we redeemed the entire $33 million outstanding principal amount of our 7.675% ESOP debt that was due December 10, 2009 at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus
interest accrued.      Financing cash outflows for 2010 and 2009 included the repurchase of 31.0 million and 19.1 million
shares of our common stock for approximately $2.2 billion and $1.1 billion,   

18   

respectively, under a 60 million share repurchase program. On March 10, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a new 60 million common share repurchase program that replaced the previous
program, approved in June 2008, which was nearing completion. Approximately 4.9 million of the shares repurchased during 2010 were repurchased under the previous program and approximately 26.1 million under the new program. In addition to
management s view that the repurchase of our common stock is a beneficial investment, we also repurchase to offset the dilutive effect of the issuance of stock and options under the stock-based employee benefit programs. At December 31,
2010, we had remaining authority to repurchase approximately 33.9 million shares under the current program. We expect total share repurchases in 2011 to approximate $2.5 billion; however, total repurchases may vary depending upon various
factors including the level of other investing activities.      We paid dividends of $0.425 per share in the first quarter of 2010
totaling $373 million, $0.425 per share in the second quarter of 2010 totaling $371 million, $0.425 per share in the third quarter of 2010 totaling $370 million, and $0.425 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 totaling $368 million. During 2009,
an aggregate $1,356 million of cash dividends were paid to shareowners.       Critical Accounting Estimates    
  Preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because
of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. The most significant areas involving management judgments and estimates are
described below. Actual results in these areas could differ from management s estimates.       Long-term Contract Accounting.  We
utilize percentage of completion accounting on certain of our long-term contracts. The percentage of completion method requires estimates of future revenues and costs over the full term of product and/or service delivery. We also utilize the
completed-contract method of accounting on certain lesser value commercial contracts. Under the completed-contract method, sales and cost of sales are recognized when a contract is completed.   
  Losses, if any, on long-term contracts are provided for when anticipated. We recognize loss provisions on original equipment contracts to
the extent that estimated inventoriable manufacturing, engineering, product warranty and product

performance guarantee costs, as appropriate, exceed the projected revenue from the products contemplated under the contractual arrangement. For new commitments, we generally record loss
provisions at the earlier of contract announcement or contract signing except for certain requirements contracts under which losses are recorded based upon receipt of the purchase order. For existing commitments, anticipated losses on contracts are
recognized in the period in which losses become evident. Products contemplated under the contractual arrangement include products purchased under the contract and, in the large commercial engine business, future highly probable sales of replacement
parts required by regulation that are expected to be purchased subsequently for incorporation into the original equipment. Revenue projections used in determining contract loss provisions are based upon estimates of the quantity, pricing and timing
of future product deliveries. We generally recognize losses on shipment to the extent that inventoriable manufacturing costs, estimated warranty costs and product performance guarantee costs, as appropriate, exceed revenue realized. We measure the
extent of progress toward completion on our long-term commercial aerospace equipment and helicopter contracts using units of delivery. In addition, we use the cost-to-cost method for elevator and escalator sales, installation and modernization
contracts in the commercial businesses. For long-term aftermarket contracts, we recognize revenue over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the contract. Contract accounting also
requires estimates of future costs over the performance period of the contract as well as an estimate of award fees and other sources of revenue.      Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which can be several years, and the estimation of these costs requires management s judgment. The long-term nature of these contracts, the
complexity of the products, and the strict safety and performance standards under which they are regulated can affect our ability to estimate costs precisely. As a result, we review and update our cost estimates on significant contracts on a
quarterly basis, and no less frequently than annually for all others, or when circumstances change and warrant a modification to a previous estimate. We record adjustments to contract loss provisions in earnings in the period identified.   
   Income Taxes.  The future tax benefit arising from net deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards was $3.6 billion at December 31,
2010 and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2009. Management believes that our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits. For those jurisdictions
where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided.   

19   

In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income,
considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carryforwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes to tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future
taxable income levels. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce such amounts through an increase to tax expense in the period in which that
determination is made or when tax law changes are enacted. Conversely, if we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, we would decrease the recorded valuation
allowance through a decrease to tax expense in the period in which that determination is made. Effective with our January 1, 2009 adoption of the provisions of the Business Combinations Topic of the FASB ASC, adjustments for valuation allowances on
deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with a business combination will generally affect income tax expense as opposed to being recorded as an adjustment to goodwill.   
  In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying our income tax positions. We assess our income tax
positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that
a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those
income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. See Notes 1 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
      Goodwill and Intangible Assets.  Our investments in businesses in 2010 totaled $2.8 billion, including approximately $39 million of
debt assumed. The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are recorded under the purchase method of accounting at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the
underlying net assets of acquired businesses. Intangible assets consist of service portfolios, patents and trademarks, customer relationships and other intangible assets. Included within other intangible assets are commercial aerospace payments made
to secure certain contractual rights to provide product on new aircraft platforms. Payments made on these contractual commitments are to be amortized as the related units are delivered.

Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are
subject to annual impairment testing. This testing compares carrying values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value of these assets is reduced to fair value. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the
estimation of the fair value of reporting units. The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future
cash flows, includes market assumptions, and contemplates other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in industry or market conditions or the rate and extent to which anticipated synergies or cost savings are realized
with newly acquired entities. We completed our assessment of goodwill as of July 1, 2010 and determined that no impairment existed at that date. Although no significant goodwill impairment has been recorded to date, there can be no assurances that
future goodwill impairments will not occur. However, a 10% decrease in the estimated fair value of any of our reporting units at the date of our 2010 assessment would not have resulted in a goodwill impairment charge. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion.       Product Performance.  We extend performance and operating cost guarantees beyond our
normal service and warranty policies for extended periods on some of our products, particularly commercial aircraft engines. Liability under such guarantees is based upon future product performance and durability. In addition, we incur discretionary
costs to service our products in connection with product performance issues. We accrue for such costs that are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The costs associated with these product performance and operating cost guarantees require
estimates over the full terms of the agreements, and require management to consider factors such as the extent of future maintenance requirements and the future cost of material and labor to perform the services. These cost estimates are largely
based upon historical experience. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.       Contracting with the U.S.
Government . Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to government oversight and audit. Like many defense contractors, we have received audit reports, which recommend that certain contract prices should be reduced to comply with
various government regulations. Some of these audit reports have involved substantial amounts. We have made voluntary refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. In addition,
we accrue for liabilities associated with those government contracting matters that are   

20   

probable and can be reasonably estimated. The inherent uncertainty related to the outcome of these matters can result in amounts materially different from any provisions made with respect to
their resolution. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. We recorded sales to the U.S. government of $9.9 billion, $9.3 billion, and $8.0 billion in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.   
   Employee Benefit Plans.  We sponsor domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Major assumptions used in the
accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, rate of increase in employee compensation levels, and health care cost increase projections. Assumptions are determined based on company data and
appropriate market indicators, and are evaluated each year at December 31. A change in any of these assumptions would have an effect on net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
     In the following table, we show the sensitivity of our pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities and net
annual periodic cost to a 25 basis point change in the discount rate as of December 31, 2010.       

(Dollars in millions)   
     
  Increase in Discount Rate of 25 bps  

Decrease in Discount Rate of 25 bps  

Pension plans   

Projected benefit obligation   
     
  $  
  (691  
  )   
     
  $  
  715  

Net periodic pension cost   

(62  
  )   

64  

Other postretirement benefit plans   

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   

(13  
  )   

13  

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost   

Pension expense is also sensitive to changes in the expected long-term rate of asset return. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points
in the expected long-term rate of asset return would have decreased or increased 2010 pension expense by approximately $52 million.      The weighted-average discount rate used to measure pension liabilities and costs is set by reference to UTC specific analysis using each plan s specific cash flows and is then compared to
high-quality bond indices for reasonableness. Global market interest rates have decreased in 2010 as compared with 2009 and, as a result, the weighted-average discount rate used to measure pension liabilities decreased from 5.9% in 2009 to 5.4% in
2010. In December 2009, we amended the salaried retirement plans (qualified and non-qualified) to change the retirement formula effective January 1, 2015. At that time, final average earnings (FAE) and credited service will stop under the
formula applicable for hires before July 1, 2002.

Employees hired after 2009 are not eligible for any defined benefit pension plan and will instead receive an enhanced benefit under the UTC Savings Plan. The continued recognition of prior
pension losses and the impact of a lower discount rate, as partially offset by positive returns experienced during 2010 and additional funding during 2010, will increase pension costs in 2011, as compared to 2010, by approximately $150 million. See
Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.       Inventory Valuation Reserves.        Inventory valuation reserves are established in order to report inventories at the lower of cost or market value on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The determination of inventory valuation reserves requires management to make estimates and judgments on the future salability of inventories. Valuation reserves for excess, obsolete, and slow-moving inventory are estimated by comparing the
inventory levels of individual parts to both future sales forecasts or production requirements and historical usage rates in order to identify inventory where the resale value or replacement value is less than inventoriable cost. Other factors that
management considers in determining the adequacy of these reserves include whether individual inventory parts meet current specifications and cannot be substituted for a part currently being sold or used as a service part, overall market conditions,
and other inventory management initiatives.      As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $799 million and $683 million,
respectively, of inventory valuation reserves recorded. Although management believes these reserves are adequate, any abrupt changes in market conditions may require us to record additional inventory valuation reserves.   
   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations       We extend a variety of financial guarantees to third parties in support of unconsolidated affiliates and for potential financing requirements of commercial aerospace customers. We also have obligations
arising from sales of certain businesses and assets, including indemnities for representations and warranties and environmental, health and safety, tax and employment matters. Circumstances that could cause the contingent obligations and liabilities
arising from these arrangements to come to fruition include changes in an underlying transaction (e.g., hazardous waste discoveries, etc.), nonperformance under a contract, customer requests for financing, or deterioration in the financial condition
of the guaranteed party.   

21   

A summary of our consolidated contractual obligations and commitments as of
December 31, 2010 is as follows:       
 
  Purchase obligations include amounts committed under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders for goods and services with defined
terms as to price, quantity, delivery and termination liability. Approximately 27% of the purchase obligations disclosed above represent purchase orders for products to be delivered under firm contracts with the U.S. government for which we have
full recourse under customary contract termination clauses.      Other long-term liabilities primarily include those amounts on our
December 31, 2010 balance sheet representing obligations under product service and warranty policies, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs and expected contributions under employee benefit
programs. The timing of expected cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management s estimates over the terms of these agreements and is largely based upon historical experience.   
  The above table does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $891 million, the timing of which is uncertain, except for approximately $60
million that may become payable during 2011. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.

Commercial Commitments    

*  
  Represents IAE s gross obligation; our proportionate share of IAE s obligations are 33%.     
  Refer to Notes 4, 15, and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on contractual and commercial
commitments.       Market Risk and Risk Management       We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. To manage certain of those exposures, we use derivative instruments, including swaps, forward
contracts and options. Derivative instruments utilized by us in our hedging activities are viewed as risk management tools, involve little complexity and are not used for trading or speculative purposes. We diversify the counterparties used and
monitor the concentration of risk to limit our counterparty exposure.      We have evaluated our exposure to changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices in our market risk sensitive instruments, which are primarily cash, debt and derivative instruments, using a value at risk analysis. Based on a 95% confidence level and a one-day holding
period, at December 31, 2010, the potential loss in fair value on our market risk sensitive instruments was not material in relation to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our calculated value at risk exposure
represents an estimate of reasonably possible net losses based on volatilities and correlations and is not necessarily indicative of actual results.

22   

Refer to Notes 1, 8 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of foreign currency exchange, interest rates and financial instruments.   
   Foreign Currency Exposures.  We have a large volume of foreign currency exposures that result from our international sales, purchases, investments,
borrowings and other international transactions. International segment sales, including U.S. export sales, averaged approximately $34 billion over the last three years. We actively manage foreign currency exposures that are associated with committed
foreign currency purchases and sales and other assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business at the operating unit level. More than insignificant exposures that cannot be naturally offset within an operating unit are hedged with
foreign currency derivatives. We also have a significant amount of foreign currency net asset exposures. Currently, we do not hold any derivative contracts that hedge our foreign currency net asset exposures but may consider such strategies in the
future.      Within aerospace, our sales are typically denominated in U.S. dollars under accepted industry convention. However, for
our non-U.S. based entities, such as P WC, a substantial portion of their costs are incurred in local currencies. Consequently, there is a foreign currency exchange impact and risk to operational results as U.S. dollars must be converted to
local currencies such as the Canadian dollar in order to meet local currency cost obligations. In order to minimize the exposure that exists from changes in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies, we hedge a certain
portion of sales to secure the rates at which U.S. dollars will be converted. The majority of this hedging activity occurs at P WC. At P WC, firm and forecasted sales for both engines and spare parts are hedged at varying amounts up to 32
months on the U.S. dollar sales exposure as represented by the excess of U.S. dollar sales over U.S. dollar denominated purchases. Hedging gains and losses resulting from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially offset by the
foreign currency translation impacts that are generated on the translation of local currency operating results into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. While the objective of the hedging program is to minimize the foreign currency exchange impact
on operating results, there are typically variances between the hedging gains or losses and the translational impact due to the length of hedging contracts, changes in the sales profile, volatility in the exchange rates and other such operational
considerations.       Interest Rate Exposures.  Our long-term debt portfolio consists mostly of fixed-rate instruments. From time to time, we
may hedge to floating rates using interest rate swaps. The hedges are designated as fair value hedges and the gains and losses on the swaps are reported in interest expense, reflecting that

portion of interest expense at a variable rate. We issue commercial paper, which exposes us to changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not hold any derivative contracts that hedge our
interest exposures, but may consider such strategies in the future.       Commodity Price Exposures.  We are exposed to volatility in the
prices of raw materials used in some of our products and from time to time we may use forward contracts in limited circumstances to manage some of those exposures. In the future, if hedges are used, gains and losses may affect earnings. There were
no significant outstanding commodity hedges as of December 31, 2010.       Environmental Matters    
  Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with
jurisdiction over our foreign operations. As a result, we have established, and continually update, policies relating to environmental standards of performance for our operations worldwide. We believe that expenditures necessary to comply with the
present regulations governing environmental protection will not have a material effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.      We have identified 596 locations, mostly in the United States, at which we may have some liability for remediating contamination. We have resolved our liability at 242 of these locations. We do not
believe that any individual location s exposure will have a material effect on our results of operations. Sites in the investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance stage represent approximately 90% of our accrued environmental
remediation reserve.      We have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund) at 106 sites. The number of Superfund sites, in and of itself, does not represent a relevant measure of liability because the nature and extent of environmental concerns vary from site to site and
our share of responsibility varies from sole responsibility to very little responsibility. In estimating our liability for remediation, we consider our likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation expense and the ability of other
potentially responsible parties to fulfill their obligations.      At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $605 million and $539
million reserved for environmental remediation, respectively. Cash outflows for environmental remediation were $44 million in 2010, $49 million in 2009 and $46 million in 2008. We estimate that ongoing environmental remediation expenditures in each
of the next two years will not exceed approximately $66 million.   

23   

Government Matters       As described in  Critical Accounting Estimates   Contracting with the U.S. government,  our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to audits. Such audits may recommend that certain
contract prices should be reduced to comply with various government regulations. We are also the subject of one or more investigations and legal proceedings initiated by the U.S. government with respect to government contract matters.   
  As previously disclosed, the Department of Justice (DOJ) sued us in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio,
claiming that Pratt   Whitney violated the civil False Claims Act and common law. This lawsuit relates to the  Fighter Engine Competition  between Pratt   Whitney s F100 engine and General Electric s F110
engine. The DOJ alleges that the government overpaid for F100 engines under contracts awarded by the U.S. Air Force in fiscal years 1985 through 1990 because Pratt   Whitney inflated its estimated costs for some purchased parts and withheld
data that would have revealed the overstatements. At trial of this matter, completed in December 2004, the government claimed Pratt   Whitney s liability to be $624 million. On August 1, 2008, the trial court judge held that the
Air Force had not suffered any actual damages because Pratt   Whitney had made significant price concessions. However, the trial court judge found that Pratt   Whitney violated the False Claims Act due to inaccurate statements
contained in its 1983 offer. In the absence of actual damages, the trial court judge awarded the DOJ the maximum civil penalty of $7.09 million, or $10,000 for each of the 709 invoices Pratt   Whitney submitted in 1989 and later under the
contracts. In September 2008, both the DOJ and UTC appealed the decision to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. In November 2010, the Sixth Circuit affirmed Pratt   Whitney s liability under the False Claims Act and remanded the case
to the U.S. District Court for further proceedings on the question of damages. Should the government ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a
liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid.      As previously disclosed, in
December 2008, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a contract claim against Sikorsky to recover overpayments the DOD alleges it has incurred since January 2003 in connection with cost accounting changes approved by the DOD and implemented by
Sikorsky in 1999 and 2006. These changes relate to the calculation of material overhead rates in government contracts. The DOD claims that Sikorsky s liability is approximately $88 million (including interest through December 2010). We believe
this claim is without merit, and Sikorsky filed an appeal in December 2009 with the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, which is pending.

Other Matters       As previously disclosed, on August 27, 2010, Rolls-Royce plc (Rolls-Royce) sued Pratt   Whitney in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, alleging that fan blades on
certain engines manufactured by Pratt   Whitney infringe a U.S. patent held by Rolls-Royce. Rolls-Royce seeks damages in an unspecified amount plus interest, an injunction, a finding of willful infringement, and attorneys  fees. We
intend to vigorously defend the case and believe that Rolls-Royce s patent is invalid and that Pratt   Whitney s products do not infringe it. Trial in the matter could take place as early as March 2011. Should the plaintiff
ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. On
November 5, 2010, Pratt   Whitney amended its previously-disclosed complaint against Rolls-Royce in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, adding Rolls-Royce Group plc (Rolls-Royce Group), the parent of Rolls-Royce,
as a party, omitting previously asserted claims, and alleging that certain turbomachinery blades, engines and components manufactured by Rolls-Royce infringe a U.S. patent held by Pratt   Whitney. Pratt   Whitney seeks an
injunction, damages, interest, attorney s fees and other relief. On November 5, 2010, Pratt   Whitney also filed complaints against Rolls-Royce in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patent Court (HCJ) in the United
Kingdom (UK) and with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC). The HCJ action alleges similar infringement claims against Rolls-Royce based upon a UK patent held by Pratt   Whitney and seeks damages plus interest and all other relief
to which Pratt   Whitney is entitled, including attorney s fees, expenses, and a permanent order preventing further infringements. The ITC complaint seeks a permanent exclusion order barring the importation into the U.S. of infringing
turbomachinery blades, engines and engine components manufactured by Rolls-Royce and Rolls-Royce Group, and requests a permanent cease-and-desist order against Rolls-Royce and Rolls-Royce Group preventing further importing, marketing, advertising,
demonstrating, testing, distributing, licensing, offering for sale, or use of such infringing turbomachinery blades, engines and engine components.      Except as otherwise noted, we do not believe that resolution of any of the above matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition.      Additional discussion of our environmental, U.S. government contract matters, product performance and other
contingent liabilities is included in  Critical Accounting Estimates  and Notes 1, 15 and 17 to the Consolidated

24   

Financial Statements. For additional discussion of our legal proceedings, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010 (2010 Form 10-K).   
   New Accounting Pronouncements       In October 2009,
the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-13,  Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements.  This ASU establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for arrangements including multiple revenue-generating activities. This ASU provides amendments
to the criteria for separating deliverables, measuring and allocating arrangement consideration to one or more units of accounting in addition to establishing a selling price hierarchy in determining the selling price of a deliverable. Significantly
enhanced disclosures are required to provide information about a vendor s multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, including information about the nature and terms, significant deliverables, and its performance within arrangements. Additional
disclosures are also required of the significant judgments made, changes to those judgments, and how the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition. The amendments in this ASU are effective
prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in the fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early application is permitted. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a
significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial results.      In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU
No. 2009-14,  Certain Revenue Arrangements That Include Software Elements.  This ASU changes the accounting model for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements that are  essential to the
functionality,  and scopes these products out of current software revenue guidance. The new guidance includes factors to help companies determine what software elements are considered  essential to the functionality.  The amendments
will subject software-enabled products to other revenue guidance and disclosure requirements, such as guidance surrounding revenue arrangements with multiple-deliverables. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively for revenue
arrangements entered into or materially modified in the fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Early application is permitted. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the
determination or reporting of our financial results.      In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-17,  Milestone
Method of Revenue Recognition.  This ASU allows entities to make a policy election to use the milestone method

of revenue recognition and provides guidance on defining a milestone and the criteria that should be met for applying the milestone method. The scope of this ASU is limited to the transactions
involving milestones relating to research and development deliverables. The guidance includes enhanced disclosure requirements about each arrangement, individual milestones and related contingent consideration, substantive milestones and factors
considered in that determination. The amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively to milestones achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after June 15, 2010. Early application and retrospective
application are permitted. We have evaluated this new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on the determination or reporting of our financial results.         Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results       This
2010 Annual Report to Shareowners (2010 Annual Report) contains statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, constitute  forward-looking statements  under the securities laws. From time to time,
oral or written forward-looking statements may also be included in other materials released to the public. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management s current expectations or plans for our future operating and
financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as  believe,   expect,   plans,   strategy, 
 prospects,   estimate,   project,   target,   anticipate,   will,   should,   see,   guidance  and other words of similar meaning in connection with a
discussion of future operating or financial performance. These include, among others, statements relating to:       

future sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance;      

the effect of economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the United States and globally and any changes therein, including financial
market conditions, fluctuation in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, levels of end market demand in construction and in both the commercial and defense segments of the aerospace industry, levels of air travel,
financial difficulties (including bankruptcy) of commercial airlines, the impact of weather conditions and the financial condition of our customers and suppliers;      

delays and disruption in delivery of materials and services from suppliers;

25   

new business opportunities;          

cost reduction efforts and restructuring costs and savings and other consequences thereof;      

the scope, nature or impact of acquisition and divestiture activity including integration of acquired businesses into our existing businesses;

the development, production, delivery, support, performance and anticipated benefits of advanced technologies and new products and services;

the anticipated benefits of diversification and balance of operations across product lines, regions and industries;      

the impact of the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and labor disputes;      

the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies;      

future repurchases of our common stock;          

future levels of indebtedness and capital and research and development spending;      

future availability of credit;          

pension plan assumptions and future contributions; and      

the effect of changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate.
        All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010 includes important information as to factors that may cause actual results to vary materially from those stated in the
forward-looking statements. See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  under the heading  Contingent Liabilities,  the section titled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  under the headings  Business Overview,   Critical Accounting Estimates,   Results of Operations,  and  Liquidity and Financial Condition,  and the section titled  Risk Factors.  Our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2010 also includes important information as to these risk factors in the  Business  section under the headings  General,   Description of Business by Segment  and  Other Matters
Relating to Our Business as a Whole,  and in the  Legal Proceedings  section. Additional important information as to these factors is included in this 2010 Annual Report in the section titled  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  under the headings  Environmental Matters  and  Restructuring and Other Costs.  For additional information identifying factors that may cause actual results to vary
materially from those stated in the forward-looking statements, see our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K filed with the SEC from time to time.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
      The management of UTC is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Management has assessed the effectiveness of UTC s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework.  Management concluded that based on its assessment, UTC s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. The effectiveness of UTC s internal control over financial reporting, as of
December 31, 2010, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.   

/s/ Louis R. Ch nevert    
 
   Louis R. Ch nevert    
 
   Chairman   Chief Executive Officer    

/s/ Gregory J. Hayes    
 
   Gregory J. Hayes    
 
   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

/s/ Peter F. Longo    
 
   Peter F. Longo    
 
   Vice President, Controller     

26   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
   To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of United Technologies Corporation:       In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of cash flows and of changes in equity present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of United Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      As discussed in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Corporation changed the manner in which it accounts for business combinations and noncontrolling interests in 2009.

A corporation s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A corporation s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the corporation;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the corporation are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
corporation s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.       

27   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS    
         
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
         28   

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET          
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
         29   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS    
         
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
         30   

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY    

(Dollars in millions)   

Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

Common Stock  

Balance at December 31,
2007    

$   
   10,572   

Comprehensive income (loss):   

Net income   
     
  $  
  5,053  

Redeemable noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries 
earnings   

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:   

Foreign currency translation adjustments   

(1,951  
  )   

Change in pension and post-retirement benefit plans, net of tax benefit
of $2,512   

(4,153  
  )   

Unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities, net of tax benefit of
$41   

(59  
  )   

Change in unrealized cash flow hedging,
net of tax benefit of $127   

(310  
  )   

Total other comprehensive loss, net of
tax   

(6,473  
  )   

Comprehensive loss   
     
  $  
  (1,420  
  )   

Common Stock issued under employee plans (5.7 million shares), net of
tax benefit of $32   

525  

Common Stock contributed to defined benefit pension plans (5.0 million
shares)   

82  

Common Stock repurchased (50.4 million shares)   

Dividends on Common Stock   

Dividends on ESOP Common Stock   

Dividends attributable to noncontrolling interest   

Redeemable noncontrolling interest accretion   

Other changes in noncontrolling
interest   

Balance at December 31,
2008    

$   
   11,179   

Comprehensive income (loss):   

Net income   
     
  $  
  4,179  

Redeemable noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries 
earnings   

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:   

Foreign currency translation adjustments   

1,023  

Change in pension and post-retirement benefit plans, net of income taxes
of $569   

1,073  

Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of income taxes of
$66   

99  

Change in unrealized cash flow hedging,
net of income taxes of $106   

255  

Total other comprehensive income, net
of tax   

2,450  

Comprehensive income   
     
  $  
  6,629  

Common Stock issued under employee plans (11.9 million shares), net of
tax benefit of $50   

634  

Common Stock repurchased (19.1 million shares)   

Dividends on Common Stock   

Dividends on ESOP Common Stock   

Dividends attributable to noncontrolling interest   

Redeemable noncontrolling interest accretion   

Purchase of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling
interest   

(67  
  )    
 
    Acquired noncontrolling interest   

Other changes in noncontrolling
interest   

Balance at December 31,
2009    

$   
   11,746   

Comprehensive income (loss):   

Net income   
     
  $  
  4,711  

Redeemable noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries 
earnings   

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:   

Foreign currency translation adjustments   

(18  
  )   

Change in pension and post-retirement benefit plans, net of tax benefit
of $224   

(336  
  )   

Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of income taxes of
$61   

96  

Change in unrealized cash flow hedging,
net of tax benefit of $18   

(29  
  )   

Total other comprehensive loss, net of
tax   

(287  
  )   

Comprehensive income   
     
  $  
  4,424  

Common Stock issued under employee plans (11.8 million shares), net of
tax benefit of $94   

746  

Common Stock contributed to defined benefit pension plans (3.8 million
shares)   

117  

Common Stock repurchased (31.0 million shares)   

Dividends on Common Stock   

Dividends on ESOP Common Stock   

Dividends attributable to noncontrolling interest   

Redeemable noncontrolling interest accretion   

Purchase of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling
interest   

(12  
  )    
 
    Sale of subsidiary shares in noncontrolling interest   

Other changes in noncontrolling
interest   

Balance at December 31,
2010    

$   
   12,597   
            See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
         31   

32   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Note 1: Summary of Accounting Principles       The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Actual results could differ
from those estimates. Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation. We previously reported  Other income, net,  which included  Interest income,  as a component of
 Revenues.   Other income, net,  excluding  Interest income,  is now reflected as a component of  Costs, Expenses and Other,  while  Interest income  is now netted with  Interest expense 
for financial statement presentation.       Consolidation.  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of United Technologies
Corporation (UTC) and its controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated.       Cash and Cash Equivalents.  Cash and
cash equivalents includes cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term cash investments that are highly liquid in nature and have original maturities of three months or less.      On occasion, we are required to maintain cash deposits with certain banks with respect to contractual obligations related to acquisitions or divestitures or other legal obligations. As of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the amount of restricted cash was approximately $75 million and $43 million. As of December 31, 2010, all restricted cash is included in current assets, while as of December 31, 2009, approximately $41
million is included in current assets and $2 million is included in long-term assets.       Accounts Receivable.  Current and long-term
accounts receivable include retainage of $165 million and $156 million and unbilled receivables of $862 million and $902 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Retainage represents amounts that, pursuant to the applicable contract, are not due until project completion and acceptance by the
customer. Unbilled receivables represent revenues that are not currently billable to the customer under the terms of the contract. These items are expected to be collected in the normal course of business. Long-term accounts receivable are included
in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.       Marketable Equity Securities.  Equity securities that have a readily determinable
fair value and that we do not intend to trade are classified as available for sale and carried at fair value. Unrealized holding gains and losses are recorded as a separate component of shareowners  equity, net of deferred income taxes.

Inventories and Contracts In Progress.  Inventories and contracts in progress are stated at the lower
of cost or estimated realizable value and are primarily based on first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost methods; however, certain Carrier entities use the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. If inventories that were valued using the LIFO method
had been valued under the FIFO method, they would have been higher by $137 million and $147 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      Costs accumulated against specific contracts or orders are at actual cost. Inventory in excess of requirements for contracts and current or anticipated orders have been reserved as appropriate.
Manufacturing costs are allocated to current production and firm contracts.       Fixed Assets.  Fixed assets are stated at cost.
Depreciation is recorded over the fixed assets  useful lives using the straight-line method.       Goodwill and Intangible Assets. 
Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses. Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are
subject to annual impairment testing using the guidance and criteria described in the Intangibles   Goodwill and Other Topic of the FASB ASC. This testing compares carrying values to fair values and, when appropriate, the carrying value of
these assets is reduced to fair value. During 2010, 2009, and 2008, we were not required to record any impairment on goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles.      Intangible assets consist of service portfolios, patents and trademarks, customer relationships and other intangible assets. Useful lives of finite lived intangible assets are estimated based upon the
nature of the intangible asset and the industry in which the intangible asset is used. Estimated useful lives of service portfolios generally range from 5 to 30 years. Estimated useful lives of patents and finite-lived trademarks range from 3 to 40
years. Estimated useful lives of customer relationships and other assets range from 2 to 32 years. These intangible assets are amortized based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible assets are consumed. If a pattern of
economic benefit cannot be reliably determined, a straight-line amortization method is used. Included within other intangible assets are commercial aerospace payments made to secure certain contractual rights to provide product on new aircraft
platforms. Payments made on these contractual commitments are to be amortized as the related units are delivered.       Other Long-lived
Assets.  We evaluate the potential impairment of other long-lived assets when appropriate. If the carrying value of other long-lived assets exceeds the sum of the

33   

undiscounted expected future cash flows, the carrying value is written down to fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had certain non-recurring measurements resulting in
impairment charges of $245 million. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.       Income Taxes.  In
the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying our income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management s evaluation of the
facts, circumstances, and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50%
likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more-likely-than-not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax
benefit has been recognized in the financial statements. Where applicable, associated interest expense has also been recognized. We recognize accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense. Penalties, if incurred, would be
recognized as a component of income tax expense.       Revenue Recognition.  Sales under government and commercial fixed-price contracts and
government fixed-price-incentive contracts are recorded at the time deliveries are made or, in some cases, on a percentage-of-completion basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as work is performed. Sales for elevators,
escalators, installation and modernization contracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method.      Losses, if
any, on contracts are provided for when anticipated. Loss provisions on original equipment contracts are recognized to the extent that estimated inventoriable manufacturing, engineering, product warranty and product performance guarantee costs, as
appropriate, exceed the projected revenue from the products contemplated under the contractual arrangement. For new commitments, we generally record loss provisions at the earlier of contract announcement or contract signing except for certain
requirements contracts under which losses are recorded upon receipt of the purchase order. For existing commitments, anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in the period in which losses become evident. Products contemplated under contractual
arrangement include products purchased under contract and, in the large commercial engine business, future highly probable sales of replacement parts required by regulation that are expected to be purchased subsequently for incorporation into the
original equipment. Revenue projections used in determining contract

loss provisions are based upon estimates of the quantity, pricing and timing of future product deliveries. Losses are generally recognized on shipment to the extent that inventoriable
manufacturing costs, estimated warranty costs and product performance guarantee costs, as appropriate, exceed revenue realized. Contract accounting requires estimates of future costs over the performance period of the contract as well as estimates
of award fees and other sources of revenue. These estimates are subject to change and result in adjustments to margins on contracts in progress. The extent of progress toward completion on our long-term commercial aerospace equipment and helicopter
contracts is measured using units of delivery. In addition, we use the cost-to-cost method for elevator and escalator sales, installation and modernization contracts in the commercial businesses. For long-term aftermarket contracts, revenue is
recognized over the contract period in proportion to the costs expected to be incurred in performing services under the contract. We review our cost estimates on significant contracts on a quarterly basis, and for others, no less frequently than
annually or when circumstances change and warrant a modification to a previous estimate. Adjustments to contract loss provisions are recorded in earnings upon identification.      Service sales, representing aftermarket repair and maintenance activities, are recognized over the contractual period or as services are performed. In the commercial businesses, revenue is generally
recognized on a straight line basis. In the aerospace businesses, revenue is generally recognized in proportion to cost.      Sales
generated from engine programs, spare parts sales, and aftermarket business under collaboration arrangements are recorded as earned in our financial statements. Amounts attributable to our collaborative partners for their share of revenues are
recorded as an expense in our financial statements based upon the terms and nature of the arrangement. Costs associated with engine programs under collaborative arrangements are expensed as incurred. Under these arrangements, collaborators
contribute their program share of engine parts, incur their own production costs and make certain payments to Pratt   Whitney for shared or joint program costs. The reimbursement of a collaborator s share of program costs is recorded
as a reduction of the related expense item at that time.       Research and Development.  Research and development costs not specifically
covered by contracts and those related to the company sponsored share of research and development activity in connection with cost-sharing arrangements are charged to expense as incurred. Government research and development support, not associated
with specific contracts, is recorded as a reduction to research and development expense in the period earned. Repayment, if any, is in the form of future royalties and is conditioned upon the achievement of certain financial targets.

34   

Research and development costs incurred under contracts with customers are expensed as
incurred and are reported as a component of cost of products sold. Revenue from such contracts is recognized as product sales when earned.   
   Foreign Exchange and Hedging Activity.  We conduct business in many different currencies and, accordingly, are subject to the inherent risks
associated with foreign exchange rate movements. The financial position and results of operations of substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Foreign currency denominated assets
and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates existing at the respective balance sheet dates, and income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates during the respective periods. The aggregate effects of
translating the balance sheets of these subsidiaries are deferred as a separate component of shareowners  equity.      We have
used derivative instruments, including swaps, forward contracts and options, to manage certain foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price exposures. Derivative instruments are viewed as risk management tools by us and are not used for
trading or speculative purposes. Derivatives used for hedging purposes may be designated and effective as a hedge of the identified risk exposure at the inception of the contract.   
  All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives used to hedge foreign-currency-denominated balance
sheet items are reported directly in earnings along with offsetting transaction gains and losses on the items being hedged. Derivatives used to hedge forecasted cash flows associated with foreign currency commitments or forecasted commodity
purchases may be accounted for as cash flow hedges, as deemed appropriate. Gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings in a manner that matches the timing of
the earnings impact of the hedged transactions. The ineffective portion of all hedges, if any, is recognized currently in earnings.      Additional information pertaining to foreign currency forward contracts is included in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Environmental.  Environmental investigatory, remediation, operating and maintenance costs are accrued when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated. The most likely cost to be incurred is accrued based on an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to each individual site, including existing technology, current laws and regulations and prior remediation experience. Where
no amount within a range of estimates is more likely,

the minimum is accrued. For sites with multiple responsible parties, we consider our likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation costs and the ability of the other parties to
fulfill their obligations in establishing a provision for those costs. Liabilities with fixed or reliably determinable future cash payments are discounted. Accrued environmental liabilities are not reduced by potential insurance reimbursements.
      Asset Retirement Obligations.  We record the fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived
assets in the period in which it is determined to exist, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. Upon initial recognition of a liability, we capitalize the cost of the asset retirement obligation by increasing the carrying amount of the
related long-lived asset. Over time, the liability is increased for changes in its present value and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. We have determined that conditional legal obligations exist for
certain of our worldwide owned and leased facilities related primarily to building materials. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the outstanding liability for asset retirement obligations was $189 million and $157 million, respectively.
      Pension and Postretirement Obligations.  Guidance under the Compensation   Retirement Benefits Topic of the FASB ASC requires
balance sheet recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of pension and postretirement benefit plans. Under this guidance, actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs or credits, and any remaining transition assets or obligations that
have not been recognized under previous accounting standards must be recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax effects, until they are amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost.   
 
     Note 2: Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets    
   Business Acquisitions and Dispositions.  Our investments in businesses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaled $2.8 billion (including debt assumed of $39
million), $703 million and $1.4 billion (including debt assumed of $196 million), respectively.      On March 1, 2010, we
completed the acquisition of the GE Security business for approximately $1.8 billion, including debt assumed of $32 million. The GE Security business supplies security and fire safety technologies for commercial and residential applications through
a broad product portfolio that includes fire detection and life safety systems, intrusion alarms, and video surveillance and access control systems. This business, which is being integrated into our UTC Fire   Security segment, enhanced UTC
Fire   Security s geographic diversity through GE Security s strong North American presence, while increasing total product and technology

35   

offerings. In connection with the acquisition of GE Security, we recorded approximately $600 million of identifiable intangible assets and $1.1 billion of goodwill. The goodwill recorded reflects
synergies expected to be realized through the combination of GE Security s products, resources and management talent with those of the existing UTC Fire   Security business to enhance competitiveness, accelerate the development of
certain product offerings, drive improved operational performance and secure additional service channels. Additionally, the combined business have provided the opportunity for significant improvements to the cost structure through the
rationalization of general and administrative expenditures as well as research and development efforts.      During 2010, we
completed the acquisition of Clipper, a publicly-held California-based wind turbine manufacturer. This investment is intended to expand our power generation portfolio and allow us to enter the wind power market by leveraging our expertise in blade
technology, turbines and gearbox design. In the first half of 2010, we acquired a 49.9% equity stake in Clipper. In December 2010, we completed the acquisition of all the remaining shares of Clipper. The total cost of our investment in Clipper is
approximately  240 million (approximately $385 million). In connection with this transaction, we recorded approximately $400 million of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Prior to the December 2010 purchase of the remaining
shares of Clipper, we accounted for this investment under the equity method of accounting. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we recorded a $159 million other-than-temporary impairment charge on our investment in Clipper, in order to
write-down our investment to market value as of September 30, 2010. This impairment is recorded within  Other income, net  on our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In December 2010, as a result of the acquisition of a controlling
interest and the remaining shares of Clipper, we recorded a $21 million gain from the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest. The financial results of Clipper are included within the  Eliminations and other 
category in the segment financial data in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      During 2010, we recorded
approximately $86 million of asset impairment charges, for assets that have met the  held-for-sale  criteria, related to disposition activity within both Carrier and Hamilton Sundstrand. These asset impairment charges are recorded
within Cost of products sold on our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The asset impairment charges consist of a $58 million charge associated with Carrier s ongoing portfolio transformation to a higher returns business and a $28
million charge at Hamilton Sundstrand related to the expected disposition of an aerospace business as part of Hamilton Sundstrand s efforts to implement low cost sourcing initiatives.

In August 2009, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 71% interest in GST Holdings
Limited (GST), a fire alarm provider in China, for approximately $250 million bringing our total investment in GST to approximately $360 million. We recorded over $200 million of goodwill and approximately $100 million of identified intangible
assets in connection with GST. With the acquisition of the remaining 71% of GST, UTC Fire   Security further strengthened its presence in the Chinese fire safety industry.   
  In July 2009, Carrier and Watsco, Inc. (Watsco) formed Carrier Enterprise, LLC, a joint venture to distribute Carrier, Bryant, Payne and
Totaline residential and light commercial HVAC products in the U.S. Sunbelt region and selected territories in the Caribbean and Latin America. As part of the transaction, Carrier contributed its distribution businesses located in these regions into
the new venture. In consideration of its contribution, Carrier received approximately 3 million shares of common stock of Watsco and a 40 percent noncontrolling interest in the new venture, which included a business contributed by Watsco.
Watsco owns a 60 percent interest in the venture with options to purchase an additional 20 percent interest from Carrier in future years. Carrier recognized a gain of approximately $60 million in 2009 as a result of its contribution of the majority
of its U.S. residential sales and distribution businesses in this new venture.      The 2008 investments consisted primarily of a
number of small acquisitions in our commercial businesses.      We account for business combinations as required by the provisions
of the Business Combinations Topic of the FASB ASC, which includes provisions that we adopted effective January 1, 2009. The accounting for business combinations retains the underlying concepts of the previously issued standard in that all
business combinations are still required to be accounted for at fair value, but changes the method of applying the acquisition method in a number of significant aspects. Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred; noncontrolling interests
are valued at fair value at the acquisition date; in-process research and development is recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are generally
expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect income tax expense. These changes are effective on a prospective basis for
all of our business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies. Adjustments for valuation allowances
on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to January 1, 2009 would also apply the revised accounting for business combination provisions.

36   

During the measurement period we will recognize additional assets or liabilities if new
information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period shall not exceed one year
from the acquisition date. Further, any associated restructuring activities will be expensed in future periods and not recorded through purchase accounting as previously done for acquisitions occurring prior to January 1, 2009.   
  There was no significant impact on our acquisition activity in 2010 or 2009 from the changes in the provisions of accounting for business
combinations.      The assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting
and recorded at their fair values at the dates of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired was recorded as an increase in goodwill of $1.7 billion in 2010, $630 million in 2009, and $825
million in 2008. The results of operations of acquired businesses have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations beginning as of the effective date of acquisition.       Goodwill.  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by segment, are as follows:       
     Intangible Assets.  Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of the following:       

Amortization of intangible assets in 2010 and 2009 was $387 million and $347 million,
respectively. Amortization of these intangible assets for 2011 through 2015 is expected to approximate $315 million per year.   
 
     Note 3: Earnings Per Share        
 
  The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock appreciation
rights and stock options when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock awards during the period. These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because the effect would have been antidilutive. For 2010, 2009, and 2008 the number of stock awards excluded from the computation was 11.4 million, 20.2 million and 8.9 million, respectively.  
 
     Note 4: Commercial Aerospace Industry Assets and Commitments       We have receivables and other financing assets with commercial aerospace industry customers totaling $3,384 million and $3,016 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Customer financing
assets related to commercial aerospace industry customers consist of products under lease of $713 million and notes and leases receivable of $416 million. The notes and leases receivable are scheduled to mature as follows: $56 million in 2011, $41
million in 2012, $54 million in 2013, $26 million in 2014, $27 million in 2015, and $212 million thereafter.      Financing
commitments, in the form of secured debt, guarantees or lease financing, are provided to commercial aerospace customers. The extent to which the financing commitments will be utilized is not currently known, since customers may be able to obtain
more favorable terms from other financing sources. We may also arrange for third-party investors to assume a portion of these commitments. If financing commitments are exercised, debt financing is generally secured by assets with fair market values
equal to or   

37   

exceeding the financed amounts with interest rates established at the time of funding. We may also lease aircraft and subsequently sublease the aircraft to customers under long-term
non-cancelable operating leases. In some instances, customers may have minimum lease terms that result in sublease periods shorter than our lease obligation. Lastly, we have made residual value and other guarantees related to various commercial
aerospace customer-financing arrangements. The estimated fair market values of the guaranteed assets equal or exceed the value of the related guarantees, net of existing reserves. We also have other contractual commitments, including commitments to
secure certain contractual rights to provide product on new aircraft platforms. Payments made on these contractual commitments are included within other intangible assets and are to be amortized as the related units are delivered.   
  Our commercial aerospace financing and other contractual commitments as of December 31, 2010 were $2,032 million and are exercisable
as follows: $384 million in 2011, $224 million in 2012, $300 million in 2013, $241 million in 2014, $136 million in 2015, and $747 million thereafter. Our financing obligations with customers are contingent upon maintenance of certain levels of
financial condition by the customers. In addition, we have residual value and other guarantees of $336 million as of December 31, 2010.      We have long-term aftermarket maintenance contracts with commercial aerospace industry customers for which revenue is recognized in proportion to actual costs incurred relative to total expected costs to
be incurred over the respective contract periods. Billings, however, are typically based on factors such as engine flight hours. The timing differences between the billings and the maintenance costs incurred generates both deferred assets and
deferred revenues. Deferred assets under these long-term aftermarket contracts totaled $290 million and $270 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively and are included in Other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Deferred revenues generated totaled $1,474 million and $1,238 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are included in Accrued liabilities and Other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
     We have a 33% interest in International Aero Engines AG (IAE), an international consortium of four shareholders organized to
support the V2500 commercial aircraft engine program. Our interest in IAE is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. IAE may offer customer financing in the form of guarantees, secured debt or lease financing in connection with V2500
engine sales. At December 31, 2010, IAE had financing commitments of $709 million and asset value guarantees of $42 million. Our share of IAE s financing commitments and asset value guarantees was approximately

$244 million at December 31, 2010. In addition, IAE had lease obligations under long-term noncancelable leases of approximately $241 million, on an undiscounted basis, through 2020 related
to aircraft, which are subleased to customers under long-term leases. These aircraft have fair market values, which approximate the financed amounts, net of reserves. The shareholders of IAE have guaranteed IAE s financing arrangements to the
extent of their respective ownership interests. In the event of default by a shareholder on certain of these financing arrangements, the other shareholders would be proportionately responsible.   
  Reserves related to aerospace receivables and financing assets were $133 million and $141 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Reserves related to financing commitments and guarantees were $38 million and $34 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
 
     Note 5: Inventories   Contracts in Progress    

Raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods are net of valuation reserves of $799 million and $683 million as of December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, inventory also includes capitalized contract development costs of $804 million and $862 million, respectively, related to certain aerospace programs. These capitalized costs will be
liquidated as production units are delivered to the customer. The capitalized contract development costs within inventory principally relate to capitalized costs on Sikorsky s CH-148 contract with the Canadian government. The CH-148 is a
derivative of the H-92, a military variant of the S-92.      Contracts in progress principally relate to elevator and escalator
contracts and include costs of manufactured components, accumulated installation costs and estimated earnings on incomplete contracts.      Our sales contracts in many cases are long-term contracts expected to be performed over periods exceeding twelve months. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 75% and 73%, respectively, of
total inventories and contracts in   

38   

progress have been acquired or manufactured under such long-term contracts, a portion of which is not scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months.   
 
     Note 6: Fixed Assets        
 
  Depreciation expense was $900 million in 2010, $852 million in 2009 and $865 million in 2008.   
 
     Note 7: Accrued Liabilities        

Note 8: Borrowings and Lines of Credit       Short-term borrowings were $116 million and $254 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates applicable to short-term borrowings outstanding at
December 31, 2010 and 2009 were 6.3% and 4.8%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, approximately $2.0 billion was available under short-term lines of credit with local banks at our various domestic and international subsidiaries. As of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not have any outstanding commercial paper. We generally use our commercial paper borrowings for general corporate purposes, including the funding of potential acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock.
     At December 31, 2010, we had new committed revolving credit agreements from banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up
to $3.0 billion under a $1.6 billion revolving credit agreement and a $1.4 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which expire in November 2014 and December

2014, respectively. These new revolving credit agreements were entered into on November 30, 2010 and December 3, 2010, respectively, to replace our former revolving credit agreements
which had permitted aggregate borrowings of up to $2.5 billion under a $1.5 billion revolving credit agreement and a $1.0 billion multicurrency revolving credit agreement which were set to expire in October 2011 and November 2011, respectively. As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there were no borrowings under these revolving credit agreements. The undrawn portions under both of these agreements are also available to serve as backup facilities for the issuance of commercial paper.
     Our long-term debt consists of the following:   

*  
  We may redeem the above notes, in whole or in part, at our option at any time at a redemption price in U.S. dollars equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount
of the notes to be redeemed or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the notes to be redeemed, discounted to the redemption date on a semiannual basis at the adjusted treasury rate plus 10-50
basis points. The redemption price will also include interest accrued to the date of redemption on the principal balance of the notes being redeemed.        In February 2010, we issued two series of fixed rate notes that pay interest semiannually, in arrears, on April 15 and October 15 of each year beginning October 15, 2010. The $1.25 billion
principal amount of fixed rate notes bears interest at a rate equal to 4.500% per year and matures on April 15, 2020. The $1.0 billion principal amount of fixed rate notes bears interest at a rate equal to 5.700% per year and matures
on April 15, 2040. The proceeds from these notes were used primarily to fund a portion of the acquisition of the GE Security business, and to repay commercial paper borrowings.

39   

In May 2010, we repaid the entire $600 million outstanding principal amount of our 4.375%
notes at maturity. In June 2010, we redeemed the entire $500 million outstanding principal amount of our 7.125% notes that would otherwise have been due November 15, 2010 and in September 2010, we redeemed the entire $500 million outstanding
principal amount of our 6.350% notes that would otherwise have been due March 1, 2011.     The project financing obligations
noted above are associated with the sale of rights to unbilled revenues related to the ongoing activity of an entity owned by Carrier. The percentage of total debt at floating interest rates was 2% and 3% at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.      The schedule of principal payments required on long-term debt for the next five years and thereafter is:

We have an existing universal shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for an indeterminate
amount of securities for future issuance, subject to our internal limitations on the amount of debt to be issued under this shelf registration statement.   
 
     Note 9: Equity    
  Consistent with the requirements under the Business Combinations Topic of the FASB ASC and the accounting for noncontrolling interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements, as adopted in 2009, changes in noncontrolling interests that do not result in a change of control and where there is a difference between fair value and carrying value are accounted for as equity transactions. A summary of
these changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries and the pro-forma effect on Net income attributable to common shareowners had they been recorded through net income is provided below:   

Note 10: Income Taxes       The
income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, consisted of the following components:       
 
  Future income taxes represent the tax effects of transactions, which are reported in different periods for tax and financial reporting
purposes. These amounts consist of the tax effects of temporary differences between the tax and financial reporting balance sheets and tax carryforwards. Pursuant to the Income Taxes Topic of the FASB ASC, current and non-current future income tax
benefits and payables within the same tax jurisdiction are generally offset for presentation in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.   
  The tax effects of net temporary differences and tax carryforwards which gave rise to future income tax benefits and payables at
December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as follows:       
 
  Valuation allowances have been established primarily for tax credit carryforwards, tax loss carryforwards, and certain foreign temporary
differences to reduce the future income tax benefits to expected realizable amounts. Upon the January 1,   

40   

2009 adoption of the additional guidance issued under the Income Taxes Topic of the FASB ASC related to the accounting for business combinations, changes in deferred tax asset valuation
allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally will affect income tax expense including those associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the date of adoption.   
  The sources of income before income taxes are:       
 
  With few exceptions, U.S. income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. It is not
practicable to estimate the amount of tax that might be payable. Our intention is to reinvest these earnings permanently outside the U.S. or to repatriate the earnings only when it is tax effective to do so. Accordingly, we believe that U.S. tax on
any earnings that might be repatriated would be substantially offset by U.S. foreign tax credits.      Differences between
effective income tax rates and the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate are as follows:       
 
  The 2010 effective tax rate increased as compared to 2009 due to the absence of certain discrete items which had a net favorable impact
in 2009. The 2010 effective tax rate reflects a non-recurring tax expense reduction associated with management s decision to repatriate additional high tax dividends from the current year to the U.S. in 2010 as a result of recent U.S. tax
legislation. This is partially offset by the non-deductibility of impairment charges, the adverse impact from the health care legislation related to the Medicare Part D program and other increases to our effective tax rate.   
  The 2009 effective tax rate reflects approximately $38 million of tax expense reductions relating to re-evaluation of our liabilities and
contingencies based on global examination activity, including the IRS s completion of 2004 and 2005 examination fieldwork and our related protest filing. As a result of the global examination activity, we recognized approximately $18 million of
associated pre-tax interest income adjustments during 2009.   
 
   The 2008 effective tax rate reflects $62 million of tax expense reductions, principally
related to the resolution of disputes with the Appeals Division of the IRS for tax years 2000 through 2003.      In the normal
course of business, various tax authorities examine us, including the IRS. The IRS review of tax years 2006 through 2008 is ongoing. Although the outcome of these matters cannot be currently determined, we believe adequate provision has been made
for any potential unfavorable financial statement impact.      At December 31, 2010, tax credit carryforwards, principally
state and federal, and tax loss carryforwards, principally state and foreign, were as follows:       
 
  At December 31, 2010, we had gross tax-effected unrecognized tax benefits of $891 million, all of which, if recognized, would impact
the effective tax rate. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits and interest expense related to unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 is as follows:   

Included in the balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $57 million and $63 million, respectively, of tax positions whose
tax characterization was highly certain but for which there was uncertainty about the timing of tax return inclusion. During 2010, the uncertainty was removed as a result of an accounting method change approved by the Internal Revenue Service.

41   

We conduct business globally and, as a result, UTC or one or more of our subsidiaries files
income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. In the normal course of business we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world, including such major jurisdictions as
Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local, or non-U.S. income
tax examinations for years before 1998.      It is reasonably possible that over the next twelve months the amount of unrecognized
tax benefits may change within a range of a net increase of $40 million to a net decrease of $170 million resulting from additional worldwide uncertain tax positions, from the re-evaluation of current uncertain tax positions arising from
developments in examinations, in appeals, or in the courts, or from the closure of tax statutes. Not included in the range is  197 million (approximately $259 million) of tax benefits that we have claimed related to a 1998 German
reorganization. These tax benefits are currently being reviewed by the German Tax Office in the course of an audit of tax years 1999 to 2000. In 2008 the German Federal Tax Court denied benefits to another taxpayer in a case involving a German tax
law relevant to our reorganization. The determination of the German Federal Tax Court on this other matter was appealed to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) to determine if the underlying German tax law is violative of European Union (EU)
principles. On September 17, 2009 the ECJ issued an opinion in this case that is generally favorable to the other taxpayer and referred the case back to the German Federal Tax Court for further consideration of certain related issues. In May
2010, the German Federal Tax Court released its decision, in which it resolved certain tax issues that may be relevant to our audit and remanded the case to a lower court for further development. After consideration of the ECJ decision and the
latest German Federal Tax Court decision, we continue to believe that it is more likely than not that the relevant German tax law is violative of EU principles and we have not

accrued tax expense for this matter. As we continue to monitor developments related to this matter, it may become necessary for us to accrue tax expense and related interest.   
 
     Note 11: Employee Benefit Plans       We sponsor numerous domestic and foreign employee benefit plans, which are discussed below.   
   Employee Savings Plans.  We sponsor various employee savings plans. Our contributions to employer sponsored defined contribution plans were $200
million, $192 million and $212 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Effective January 1, 2010, newly hired non-union domestic employees receive all of their retirement benefits through the defined contribution savings plan.
     Our non-union domestic employee savings plan uses an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) for employer contributions. External
borrowings were used by the ESOP to fund a portion of its purchase of ESOP stock from us. The external borrowings have been extinguished and only re-amortized loans remain between the company and the ESOP Trust. As ESOP debt service payments are
made, common stock is released from an unreleased shares account. ESOP debt may be prepaid or re-amortized to either increase or decrease the number of shares released so that the value of released shares equals the value of plan benefit. We may
also, at our option, contribute additional common stock or cash to the ESOP.      Shares of common stock are allocated to
employees  ESOP accounts at fair value on the date earned. Cash dividends on common stock held by the ESOP are used for debt service payments. Participants receive additional shares in lieu of cash dividends. Common stock allocated to ESOP
participants is included in the average number of common shares outstanding for both basic and diluted earnings per share. At December 31, 2010, 35.6 million common shares had been allocated to employees, leaving 20.4 million
unallocated common shares in the ESOP Trust, with an approximate fair value of $1.6 billion.   

42   

Pension Plans.  We sponsor both funded and unfunded domestic and foreign defined benefit pension
plans that cover the majority of our employees. Our plans use a December 31 measurement date consistent with our fiscal year.       
 
  The amounts included in  Other  in the preceding table reflect the impact of foreign exchange translation, primarily for plans
in the United Kingdom and Canada.      Qualified domestic pension plan benefits comprise approximately 76% of the projected benefit
obligation. Benefits for union employees are generally based on a stated amount for each year of service. For non-union employees, benefits are generally based on an employee s years of service and

compensation near retirement. Effective January 1, 2015, this formula will change to the existing cash balance formula that was adopted in 2003 for newly hired non-union employees and for
other non-union employees who made a one-time voluntary election to have future benefit accruals determined under this formula. This plan change resulted in a $623 million reduction in the projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2009.
Certain foreign plans, which comprise approximately 23% of the projected benefit obligation, are considered defined benefit plans for accounting purposes. Nonqualified domestic pension plans provide supplementary retirement benefits to certain
employees and are not a material component of the projected benefit obligation.      We made $1,001 million of cash contributions
and contributed $250 million in UTC common stock to our domestic defined benefit pension plans and made $298 million of cash contributions to our foreign defined benefit pension plans in 2010. In 2009, we made $951 million of cash contributions to
our domestic defined benefit pension plans and made $319 million of cash contributions to our foreign defined benefit pension plans.      Information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:       
 
  The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $23.2 billion and $20.8 billion at December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively.      The components of the net periodic pension cost are as follows:   

43   

Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income in 2010 are as follows:       

(Dollars in millions)   

Current year actuarial loss   
     
   $   
   728   

Amortization of actuarial loss   

(285   
   )     
 
    Current year prior service cost   

121   

Amortization of prior service credit   

18   

Amortization of transition obligation   

(1   
   )     
 
    Other   

(22   
   )     
 
    Total recognized in other comprehensive income   

559   

Net recognized in net periodic pension cost and other comprehensive
income   
     
   $   
   777   
         
  The estimated amount that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic pension cost in 2011 is as
follows:       
 
  Contributions to multiemployer plans were $117 million, $126 million and $163 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
  Major assumptions used in determining the benefit obligation and net cost for pension plans are presented in the following table as
weighted-averages:       

In determining the expected return on plan assets, we consider the relative weighting of
plan assets, the historical performance of total plan assets and individual asset classes, and economic and other indicators of future performance. In addition, we may consult with and consider the opinions of financial and other professionals in
developing appropriate capital market assumptions. Return projections are also validated using a simulation model that incorporates yield curves, credit spreads and risk premiums to project long-term prospective returns.   
  The plan s investment management objectives include maintaining an adequate level of diversification, to reduce interest rate and
market risk, and to provide adequate liquidity to meet immediate and future benefit payment requirements. The overall investment strategy targets a mix of 67% growth seeking assets and 33% income generating assets using a wide diversification of
asset types, fund strategies and investment managers. The growth seeking allocation consists of global public equities in developed and emerging countries, private equity, real estate and balanced market risk strategies. Within global equities, 12%
of the portfolio is an enhanced equity strategy that invests in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities, derivatives and foreign currency. Investments in private equity are primarily via limited partnership interests in buy-out strategies
with smaller allocations in distressed debt funds. The real estate strategy is principally concentrated in directly held U.S. core investments with some smaller investments in international, value-added and opportunistic strategies. Within the
income generating assets, the fixed income portfolio consists of a broadly diversified portfolio of corporate bonds, global government bonds and U.S. Treasury STRIPS. These investments are designed to hedge 40% of the interest rate sensitivity of
the pension plan liabilities.   

44   

The fair values of pension plan assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009 by asset category
are as follows:       

(a)  
  Represents commingled funds that invest primarily in common stocks.     

(b)  
  Represents enhanced equity separate account and commingled fund portfolios. A portion of the portfolio may include long-short market neutral and relative value
strategies that invest in publicly traded, equity and fixed income securities, as well as derivatives of equity and fixed income securities and foreign currency.     

(c)  
  Represents limited partner investments with general partners that primarily invest in debt and equity.     

(d)  
  Represents mortgage and asset-backed securities.     

(e)  
  Represents investments in real estate including commingled funds and directly held properties.     

(f)  
  Represents insurance contracts and global balanced risk commingled funds consisting mainly of equity, bonds and some commodities.     

(g)  
  Represents short-term commercial paper, bonds and other cash or cash-like instruments.     

(h)  
  Represents trust receivables and payables that are not leveled.        Derivatives in the plan are primarily used to manage risk and gain asset class exposure while still maintaining liquidity. Derivative instruments mainly consist of equity futures, interest rate futures,
interest rate swaps and currency forward contracts.      Our common stock represents approximately 3% and 4% of total plan assets
at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We review our assets at least quarterly to ensure we are within the targeted asset allocation ranges and, if necessary, asset balances are adjusted back within target allocations. We employ a broadly
diversified investment manager structure that includes diversification by active and passive management, style, capitalization, country, sector, industry and number of investment managers.

45   

The fair value measurement of plan assets using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3)
changed due to the following:       

Quoted market prices are used to value investments when available. Investments in
securities traded on exchanges, including listed futures and options, are valued at the last reported sale prices on the last business day of the year or, if not available, the last reported bid prices. Fixed income securities are primarily measured
using a market approach pricing methodology, where observable prices are obtained by market transactions involving identical or comparable securities of issuers with similar credit ratings. Mortgages have been valued on the basis of their future
principal and interest payments discounted at prevailing interest rates for similar investments. Investment contracts are valued at fair value by discounting the related cash flows based on current yields of similar instruments with comparable
durations. Real estate investments are valued on a quarterly basis using discounted cash flow models which consider long-term lease estimates, future rental receipts and estimated residual values. Valuation estimates are supplemented by third-party
appraisals on an annual basis.      Private Equity limited partnerships are valued quarterly using discounted cash flows,
earnings multiples and market multiples. Valuation adjustments reflect changes in operating

results, financial condition, or prospects of the applicable portfolio company. Over-the-counter securities and government obligations are valued at the bid prices or the average of the bid and
ask prices on the last business day of the year from published sources or, if not available, from other sources considered reliable, generally broker quotes. Temporary cash investments are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.   
   Estimated Future Contributions and Benefit Payments    
  We expect to make contributions of approximately $450 million to our global pension plans in 2011, including approximately $250 million to our domestic
plans. Contributions do not reflect benefits to be paid directly from corporate assets.      Benefit payments, including amounts
to be paid from corporate assets, and reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: $1,290 million in 2011, $1,334 million in 2012, $1,374 million in 2013, $1,430 million in 2014, $1,489 million in 2015, and
$8,416 million from 2016 through 2020.   

46   

Postretirement Benefit Plans.  We sponsor a number of postretirement benefit plans that provide
health and life benefits to eligible retirees. Such benefits are provided primarily from domestic plans, which comprise approximately 86% of the benefit obligation. The postretirement plans are primarily unfunded. Assets in funded plans are
primarily invested in cash and cash equivalents.       
 
  The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:   

Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive
income in 2010 are as follows:       

(Dollars in millions)   

Current year actuarial gain   
     
   $   
   (27   
   )     
 
    Amortization of prior service credit   

2   

Amortization of actuarial net gain   

1   

Total recognized in other comprehensive income   

(24   
   )     
 
    Net recognized in net periodic other postretirement benefit cost and other comprehensive
income   
     
   $   
   20   
         
  The estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in 2011 include
actuarial net gains of $9 million and prior service credits of $2 million.      Major assumptions used in determining the benefit
obligation and net cost for postretirement plans are presented in the following table as weighted-averages:       
 
  Assumed health care cost trend rates are as follows:       
 
  Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point
change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:       

2010 One-Percentage-Point   

(Dollars in millions)   
     
  Increase  

Decrease  

Effect on total service and interest cost   
     
  $  
  2  

$  
  (2  
  )    
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
     
  $  
  44  

$  
  (38  
  )         Estimated Future Benefit Payments       Benefit payments, including net amounts to be paid from corporate
assets and reflecting expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows: $73 million in 2011, $71 million in 2012, $69 million in 2013, $67 million in 2014, $65 million in 2015, and $263 million from 2016 through 2020.

47   

Stock-based Compensation.  We have long-term incentive plans authorizing various types of market and
performance based incentive awards that may be granted to officers and employees. Our Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was initially approved on April 13, 2005 and amended in 2008 to increase the maximum number of shares available for award
under the LTIP to 71 million shares. Following initial approval of the LTIP, we may not grant any new awards under previously existing equity compensation plans. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 16 million shares remain
available for awards under the LTIP. The LTIP does not contain an annual award limit. We expect that the shares awarded on an annual basis will range from 1% to 1.5% of shares outstanding. The LTIP will expire after all shares have been awarded or
April 30, 2014, whichever is sooner.      Under all long-term incentive plans, the exercise price of awards is set on the
grant date and may not be less than the fair market value per share on that date. Generally, stock appreciation rights and stock options have a term of ten years and a minimum three-year vesting period. In the event of retirement, awards held for
more than one year shall immediately become vested and exercisable. In addition, under the LTIP, awards with performance-based vesting generally have a minimum three-year vesting period and vest based on performance against pre-established metrics.
In the event of retirement, awards held more than one year remain eligible to vest. We have historically repurchased shares of our common stock in an amount at least equal to the number of shares issued under our equity compensation arrangements and
expect to continue this policy.   
 
   We measure the cost of all share-based payments, including stock options, at fair value
on the grant date and recognize this cost in the statement of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, $154 million, $153 million and $211 million, respectively, of compensation cost was recognized in operating results.
The associated future income tax benefit recognized was $47 million, $49 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $386 million, $342 million and $163 million, respectively, with an associated
tax benefit realized of $139 million, $95 million and $49 million, respectively. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the associated tax benefit realized from the vesting of performance share units was $20 million and
$33 million, respectively. Also, in accordance with the Compensation   Stock Compensation Topic of the FASB ASC, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, $94 million, $50 million and $32 million, respectively, of certain tax
benefits have been reported as operating cash outflows with corresponding cash inflows from financing activities.      At
December 31, 2010, there was $148 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested equity awards granted under long-term incentive plans. This cost is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 1.5
years.   
 
       A summary of the
transactions under all long-term incentive plans for the year ended December 31, 2010 follows:       

*  
  weighted-average exercise price     

**  
  weighted-average grant stock price     
    
   The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options and stock appreciation rights
granted during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $17.86, $16.01 and $21.16, respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance share units, which vest upon achieving certain performance metrics, granted during 2010, 2009, and 2008 was
$78.73,   

$61.56 and $84.01, respectively. The total fair value of awards vested during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $172 million, $235 million and $144 million, respectively.
The total intrinsic value (which is the amount by which the stock price exceeded the exercise price on the date of exercise) of stock options and stock appreciation rights

48   

exercised during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $446 million, $296 million and $173 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value (which is the stock price

at vesting) of performance share units vested was $62 million and $100 million during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The following table
summarizes information about equity awards outstanding that are vested and expected to vest and equity awards outstanding that are exercisable at December 31, 2010:   

*  
  weighted-average exercise price per share     

**  
  weighted-average contractual remaining term in years     
    
   The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial
lattice model. The following table indicates the assumptions used in estimating fair value for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Because lattice-based option models incorporate ranges of assumptions for inputs, those ranges are
as follows:       
 
  Expected volatilities are based on the returns of our stock, including implied volatilities from traded options on our stock for the
binomial lattice model. We use historical data to estimate equity award exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model. Separate employee groups and equity award characteristics are considered separately for valuation
purposes. The expected term represents an estimate of the period of time equity awards are expected to remain outstanding. The risk-free rate is based on the term structure of interest rates at the time of equity award grant.   

Note 12: Restructuring and Other Costs       During 2010, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring and other costs totaling $443 million for new and ongoing restructuring actions. We recorded charges in the segments as follows:   

The net costs consist of $283 million recorded in cost of sales, $159 million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $1
million in other income, net. As described below, these charges primarily relate to actions initiated during 2010 and 2009.       2010 Actions.
 During 2010, we initiated restructuring actions relating to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including workforce reductions and consolidation of field operations. We recorded net pre-tax restructuring and other costs totaling $371 million for
restructuring actions initiated in 2010, consisting of $221 million in cost of sales and $150 million in selling, general and administrative expenses.      We expect the actions that were initiated in 2010 to result in net workforce reductions of approximately 5,000 hourly and salaried employees, the exiting of approximately 3.9 million net square feet
of facilities and the disposal of assets associated with exited facilities. As of December 31, 2010, we have completed, with respect to the actions initiated in 2010, net workforce reductions of approximately 2,400 employees and 300,000 net
square feet of facilities have been exited. We are targeting to   

49   

complete in 2011 the majority of the remaining workforce and all facility related cost reduction actions initiated in 2010. No specific plans for significant other actions have been finalized at
this time.      The following table summarizes the accrual balances and utilization by cost type for the 2010 restructuring
actions:       
 
  The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2010 restructuring actions by type:   

The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2010 restructuring actions by segment:   
   
     2009 Actions.  During 2010, we recorded net pre-tax restructuring and other costs totaling $85 million for restructuring actions initiated in 2009, consisting of $63 million in cost of sales and $21
million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $1 million in other income, net. The 2009 actions relate to ongoing cost reduction efforts, including workforce reductions, the consolidation of field operations and the consolidation of
repair and overhaul operations.   
 
   As of December 31, 2010, we have completed net workforce reductions of approximately
13,400 employees of an expected 14,400, and have exited 1.3 million net square feet of facilities of an expected 4.7 million net square feet. The remaining workforce and facility reduction actions are targeted for completion during 2011.
     The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual balances and utilization by cost type for the 2009 programs:

The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2009 programs by type:   

The following table summarizes expected, incurred and remaining costs for the 2009 programs by segment:   

Note 13: Financial Instruments       We enter into derivative instruments for risk management purposes only, including derivatives designated as hedging instruments under the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the FASB ASC and those utilized
as economic hedges. We operate internationally and, in the normal course of business, are   

50   

exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices. These fluctuations can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business. We have used
derivative instruments, including swaps, forward contracts and options to manage certain foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price exposures.      By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative and other financial instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to
monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. We limit counterparty exposure and concentration of risk by diversifying counterparties. While there can be no assurance, we do not anticipate any material non-performance by any of these
counterparties.       Foreign Currency Forward Contracts.  We manage our foreign currency transaction risks to acceptable limits through the
use of derivatives to hedge forecasted cash flows associated with foreign currency transaction exposures which are accounted for as cash flow hedges, as deemed appropriate. To the extent these derivatives are effective in offsetting the variability
of the hedged cash flows, and otherwise meet the hedge accounting criteria of the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the FASB ASC, changes in the derivatives  fair value are not included in current earnings but are included in Accumulated other
comprehensive loss. These changes in fair value will subsequently be reclassified into earnings as a component of product sales or expenses, as applicable, when the forecasted transaction occurs. To the extent that a previously designated hedging
transaction is no longer an effective hedge, any ineffectiveness measured in the hedging relationship is recorded currently in earnings in the period it occurs.

To the extent the hedge accounting criteria are not met, the foreign currency forward
contracts are utilized as economic hedges and changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded currently in earnings in the period in which they occur. These include hedges that are used to reduce exchange rate risks arising from the change
in fair value of certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities (i.e. payables, receivables) and other economic hedges where the hedge accounting criteria were not met.   
  The four quarter rolling average of the notional amount of foreign exchange contracts hedging foreign currency transactions was $8.5
billion and $9.0 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      Additional information pertaining to foreign
exchange and hedging activities is included in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Commodity Forward Contracts.        We enter into commodity forward contracts to reduce the risk of fluctuations in the price we pay for certain commodities (for example, nickel) which
are used directly in the production of our products, or are components of the products we procure to use in the production of our products. These hedges are economic hedges and the changes in fair value of these contracts are recorded currently in
earnings in the period in which they occur. The fair value and outstanding notional amount of contracts hedging commodity exposures were insignificant at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

51   

The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments as of
December 31:       

(Dollars in millions)   
      
  Balance Sheet Asset Location  
     
   2010   

2009  

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:   

Foreign Exchange Contracts   
      
  Other assets, current  
     
   $   
   73   

$  
  107  

Foreign Exchange
Contracts   
      
  Other assets  

24   

33  

97   

140  

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:   

Foreign Exchange Contracts   
      
  Other assets, current  

31   

113  

Foreign Exchange
Contracts   
      
  Other assets  

5   

5  

36   

118  

Total Asset Derivative
Contracts   

$   
   133   

$  
  258  

Balance Sheet Liability Location  

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:   

Foreign Exchange Contracts   
      
  Accrued liabilities  
     
   $   
   16   

$  
  31  

Foreign Exchange
Contracts   
      
  Other long-term liabilities  

1   

4  

17   

35  

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:   

Foreign Exchange Contracts   
      
  Accrued liabilities  

33   

106  

Foreign Exchange
Contracts   
      
  Other long-term liabilities  

3   

3  

36   

109  

Total Liability Derivative
Contracts   

$   
   53   

$  
  144  

The impact from foreign exchange derivative instruments that qualified as cash flow
hedges for the period was as follows:       

December 31,   

(Dollars in millions)   
     
   2010   

2009  

Gain recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss   
     
   $   
   72   

$  
  192  

Gain (loss) reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into Product sales (effective portion)   

119   

(165  
  )    
 
    Loss recognized in Other income, net on derivatives (ineffective portion)   

(5  
  )     
  Assuming current market conditions continue, a $58 million pre-tax gain is expected to be reclassified from Accumulated other
comprehensive loss into Product sales to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months. At December 31, 2010, all derivative contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges mature by February 2013.
     The effect on the Consolidated Statement of Operations from foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments
was as follows:       

Fair Value Disclosure.  The Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the FASB ASC defines
fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the related disclosure requirements. The Topic indicates, among other things, that a fair value measurement assumes that the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a
liability occurs in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for the asset or liability, and also defines fair value based upon an exit price model.   
  During 2010, we had certain non-recurring measurements resulting in impairment charges as well as a gain on the re-measurement to fair
value of a previously held equity interest. As previously disclosed, during 2010, we recorded approximately $86 million of asset impairment charges associated with disposition activity within both Carrier and Hamilton Sundstrand and also recorded an
other-than-temporary impairment charge of $159 million on our equity investment in Clipper, which had a previous carrying value of approximately $248 million. The impairment charge recorded on our investment in Clipper was determined by comparing
the carrying value of our investment to the closing market value of the shares on September 30, 2010. In December 2010, as a result of the acquisition of a controlling interest and all of the remaining shares of Clipper, we recorded a $21
million gain from the re-measurement to fair value of our previously held equity interest. For additional discussion refer to Note 2.   

52   

Valuation Hierarchy.  The Fair Value Measurements and Disclosure Topic of the FASB ASC establishes a
valuation hierarchy for disclosure of the inputs to the valuations used to measure fair value. This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the
asset or liability, including interest rates, yield curves and credit risks, or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based on our own
assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. A financial asset or liability s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.   
  In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2010-6,  Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
Measurements,  which requires interim disclosures regarding significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements. Additionally, this ASU requires disclosure for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures
about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and non-recurring fair value measurements. These disclosures are required for fair value measurements that fall in either Level 2 or Level 3. Further, the ASU
requires separate presentation of Level 3 activity for the fair value measurements. We adopted the interim disclosure requirements under this Topic during the quarter ended March 31, 2010, with the exception of the separate presentation in the
Level 3 activity roll-forward, which is not effective until fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years.      The following table provides the assets and liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2010 and 2009:   

Valuation Techniques.  Our available-for-sale securities are comprised of equity investments that are
traded in active markets, either domestically or internationally. They are measured at fair value using closing stock prices from active markets and are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Our derivative assets and liabilities
include foreign exchange and commodity derivatives that are measured at fair value using internal models based on observable market inputs such as forward rates, interest rates, our own credit risk and our counterparties  credit risks. Based on
these inputs, the derivative assets and liabilities are classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Based on our continued ability to trade securities and enter into forward contracts, we consider the markets for our fair value instruments
to be active. As of December 31, 2010, there were no significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2.      As of
December 31, 2010, there has not been any significant impact to the fair value of our derivative liabilities due to our own credit risk. Similarly, there has not been any significant adverse impact to our derivative assets based on our
evaluation of our counterparties  credit risks.      The carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments at
December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:       
 
  The above fair values were computed based on comparable transactions, quoted market prices, discounted future cash flows or an estimate
of the amount to be received or paid to terminate or settle the agreement, as applicable. Differences from carrying amounts are attributable to interest and or credit rate changes subsequent to when the transaction occurred. The fair values of Cash
and cash equivalents, Accounts receivable, net, Short-term borrowings, and Accounts payable approximate the carrying amounts due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.   
  We had outstanding commercial aerospace financing and other contractual commitments totaling $2,032 million at December 31, 2010.
Risks associated with changes in interest rates on these commitments are mitigated by the fact that interest rates are variable during the commitment term, and are set at the date of funding based on current market conditions, the fair value of the
underlying collateral and the credit worthiness of the customers. As a result, the fair value of these financings is expected to equal the amounts funded. The fair

53   

value of the commitment itself is not readily determinable and is not considered significant. Additional information pertaining to these commitments is included in Note 4.   
 
     Note 14: Credit Quality of Long-Term Receivables       In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-20,  Disclosure about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses  (ASU). This ASU is intended to enhance a
financial statement user s ability to evaluate the entity s credit risk exposures and adequacy of its allowance for credit losses by requiring additional disclosure about the nature of credit risk inherent in the portfolio of receivables,
factors and methodologies used in estimating the allowance for credit losses and activity that occurs during a period for both financing receivables and allowance for credit losses. The scope of this ASU is limited to financing receivables, as
defined, and excludes short-term trade accounts receivable and receivables measured at fair value or lower of cost or fair value. We adopted the disclosures under this ASU for the reporting period ended December 31, 2010, with the exception of
disclosures about activity that occurs during a reporting period, which are effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2010.      A long-term or financing receivable represents a contractual right to receive money on demand or on fixed and determinable dates, including trade receivable balances with maturity dates greater than one
year. Our long-term and financing receivables primarily represent balances related to the aerospace businesses such as long-term trade accounts receivable, leases, and notes receivable. We also have other long-term receivables in the commercial
businesses; however, both the individual and aggregate amounts are not significant.      Our classes within aerospace long-term
receivables are comprised of long-term trade accounts receivable and notes and leases receivable. Long-term trade accounts receivable represent amounts arising from the sale of goods and services with a contractual maturity date of greater than one
year and are recognized as Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Notes and leases receivable represent notes and lease receivables other than receivables related to operating leases, and are recognized as Customer financing assets in our
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The following table summarizes the balance by class of aerospace long-term receivables as of December 31, 2010:       

(Dollars in millions)   

Long-term trade accounts receivable   
     
   $   
   119   

Notes and leases receivable   

416   

Total long-term receivables   
     
   $   
   535   

Economic conditions and air travel influence the operating environment for most airlines,
and the financial performance of our aerospace businesses is directly tied to the economic conditions of the commercial aerospace and defense industries. Additionally, the value of the collateral is also closely tied to commercial airline
performance and may be subject to exposure of reduced valuation as a result of market declines. We determine a receivable is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect amounts due
according to the original contractual terms of the receivable agreement. Factors considered in assessing collectability and risk include, but are not limited to, examination of credit quality indicators and other evaluation measures, underlying
value of any collateral or security interests, significant past due balances, historical losses, and existing economic conditions.      Long-term receivables can be considered delinquent if payment has not been received in accordance with the agreement. If determined delinquent, long-term trade accounts receivable and notes and leases
receivable balances accruing interest may be placed on nonaccrual status. We record potential losses related to long-term receivables when identified. The reserve for credit losses on these receivables relates to specifically identified receivables
that are evaluated individually for impairment. For notes and leases receivable we determine a specific reserve for exposure based on the difference between the carrying value of the receivable and the estimated fair value of the related collateral
in connection with the evaluation of credit risk and collectability. For long-term trade accounts receivable we evaluate credit risk and collectability individually to determine if an allowance is necessary. Uncollectible long-term receivables are
written-off when collection of the indebtedness has been pursued for a reasonable period of time without collection; the customer is no longer in operation; or judgment has been levied, but the underlying assets are not adequate to satisfy the
indebtedness. At December 31, 2010, we do not have any significant balances that are considered to be delinquent, on non-accrual status, past due 90 days or more, or considered to be impaired.   
  The following table summarizes the reserve for estimated credit losses and exposures, and the associated aerospace long-term receivables
at December 31, 2010:       

(Dollars in millions)   
     
  Long-term receivables  

Reserve for credit losses and exposure  

Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment   
     
  $  
  535  

$  
  42  
       
  We determine credit ratings for each customer in the portfolio based upon public information and information obtained directly from our
customers. We conduct a review of   

54   

customer credit ratings, published historical credit default rates for different rating categories, and multiple third party aircraft value publications as a basis to validate the reasonableness
of the allowance for losses on these balances quarterly or when events and circumstances warrant. The credit ratings listed below range from  A  which indicates an extremely strong capacity to meet financial obligations and the receivable
is either collateralized or uncollateralized, to  D  which indicates that payment is in default and the receivable is uncollateralized. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from estimates or that consideration of
these factors in the future will not result in an increase or decrease to the allowance for credit losses on long-term receivables.      The following table summarizes the credit risk profile by creditworthiness category for aerospace long-term receivable balances at December 31, 2010:   

(Dollars in millions)   
     
  Long-term trade accounts receivable  

Notes and leases receivable  

A   (low risk, collateralized/uncollateralized)   
     
  $  
  114  

$  

B   (moderate risk, collateralized/uncollateralized)   

5  

336  

C   (high risk, collateralized/uncollateralized)   

80  

D   (in default, uncollateralized)   

Total   
     
  $  
  119  

$  
  416  

Note 15: Guarantees       We
extend a variety of financial guarantees to third parties. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 the following financial guarantees were outstanding:       

*  
  Represents IAE s gross obligation; our proportionate share of IAE s obligations are 33%.     
  We also have obligations arising from sales of certain businesses and assets, including from representations and warranties and related
indemnities for environmental, health and safety, tax and employment matters. The maximum

potential payment related to these obligations is not a specified amount as a number of the obligations do not contain financial caps. The carrying amount of liabilities related to these
obligations was $139 million and $137 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For additional information regarding the environmental indemnifications, see Note 17.   
  We accrue for costs associated with guarantees when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
estimated. The most likely cost to be incurred is accrued based on an evaluation of currently available facts, and where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, the minimum is accrued. In accordance with the Guarantees Topic of FASB
ASC, we record a liability for the fair value of such guarantees in the balance sheet.      We provide service and warranty
policies on our products and extend performance and operating cost guarantees beyond our normal service and warranty policies on some of our products, particularly commercial aircraft engines. In addition, we incur discretionary costs to service our
products in connection with specific product performance issues. Liabilities for performance and operating cost guarantees are based upon future product performance and durability, and are largely estimated based upon historical experience.
Adjustments are made to accruals as claim data and historical experience warrant. The changes in the carrying amount of service and product warranties and product performance guarantees for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 are as
follows:       

Note 16: Collaborative Arrangements       In view of the risks and costs associated with developing new engines, Pratt   Whitney has entered into certain collaboration arrangements in which costs, sales and risks are shared. Sales
generated from engine programs, spare parts sales, and aftermarket business under collaboration arrangements are recorded as earned in our financial statements. Amounts attributable to our collaborative partners for their share of sales are recorded
as an expense in our financial statements based upon the terms and nature of the arrangement. Costs associated with engine programs under collaborative arrangements are expensed as incurred. Under these arrangements, collaborators contribute their
program share of engine parts, incur their own production costs and make certain payments to Pratt   Whitney for shared or joint program costs. The reimbursement of the collaborator s share

55   

of program costs is recorded as a reduction of the related expense item at that time. As of December 31, 2010, the collaborators  interests in all commercial engine programs ranged from
12 percent to 48 percent. Pratt   Whitney directs those programs and is the principal participant in all existing collaborative arrangements. There are no individually significant collaborative arrangements and none of the partners exceed
31 percent share in an individual program.      The following table illustrates the income statement classification and amounts
attributable to transactions arising from the collaborative arrangements between participants for each period presented:       

Note 17: Contingent Liabilities        Leases.  We occupy space and use certain equipment under lease arrangements. Rental commitments of $1,805 million at December 31, 2010 under long-term noncancelable operating leases are payable
as follows: $500 million in 2011, $393 million in 2012, $277 million in 2013, $179 million in 2014, $100 million in 2015 and $356 million thereafter. Rent expense was $445 million in 2010, $463 million in 2009 and $504 million in 2008.   
  Additional information pertaining to commercial aerospace rental commitments is included in Note 4.   
   Environmental.  Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory
authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. As described in Note 1, we have accrued for the costs of environmental remediation activities and periodically reassess these amounts. We believe that the likelihood of incurring losses
materially in excess of amounts accrued is remote. At December 31, 2010, we had $605 million reserved for environmental remediation. Additional information pertaining to environmental matters is included in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.       Government.  We are now, and believe that in light of the current U.S. government contracting environment we will continue
to be, the subject of one or more U.S. government investigations. If we or one of our business units were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any of these investigations or

other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws) the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government
contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could fine and debar us from new U.S. government contracting for a period generally not to exceed three years. The U.S. government could void
any contracts found to be tainted by fraud.      Our contracts with the U.S. government are also subject to audits. Like many
defense contractors, we have received audit reports, which recommend that certain contract prices should be reduced to comply with various government regulations. Some of these audit reports involved substantial amounts. We have made voluntary
refunds in those cases we believe appropriate, have settled some allegations and continue to litigate certain cases. In addition, we accrue for liabilities associated with those matters that are probable and can be reasonably estimated. The most
likely settlement amount to be incurred is accrued based upon a range of estimates. Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, then we accrued the minimum amount.   
  As previously disclosed, the Department of Justice (DOJ) sued us in 1999 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio,
claiming that Pratt   Whitney violated the civil False Claims Act and common law. This lawsuit relates to the  Fighter Engine Competition  between Pratt   Whitney s F100 engine and General Electric s F110
engine. The DOJ alleges that the government overpaid for F100 engines under contracts awarded by the U.S. Air Force in fiscal years 1985 through 1990 because Pratt   Whitney inflated its estimated costs for some purchased parts and withheld
data that would have revealed the overstatements. At trial of this matter, completed in December 2004, the government claimed Pratt   Whitney s liability to be $624 million. On August 1, 2008, the trial court judge held that the
Air Force had not suffered any actual damages because Pratt   Whitney had made significant price concessions. However, the trial court judge found that Pratt   Whitney violated the False Claims Act due to inaccurate statements
contained in its 1983 offer. In the absence of actual damages, the trial court judge awarded the DOJ the maximum civil penalty of $7.09 million, or $10,000 for each of the 709 invoices Pratt   Whitney submitted in 1989 and later under the
contracts. In September 2008, both the DOJ and UTC appealed the decision to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. In November 2010, the Sixth Circuit affirmed Pratt   Whitney s liability under the False Claims Act and remanded the case
to the U.S. District Court for further proceedings on the question of damages. Should the government ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material adverse effect on our results of

56   

operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid.   
  As previously disclosed, in December 2008, the Department of Defense (DOD) issued a contract claim against Sikorsky to recover
overpayments the DOD alleges it has incurred since January 2003 in connection with cost accounting changes approved by the DOD and implemented by Sikorsky in 1999 and 2006. These changes relate to the calculation of material overhead rates in
government contracts. The DOD claims that Sikorsky s liability is approximately $88 million (including interest through December 2010). We believe this claim is without merit and Sikorsky filed an appeal in December 2009 with the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims, which is pending.       Other.        As previously disclosed, on August 27, 2010, Rolls-Royce plc (Rolls-Royce) sued Pratt   Whitney in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, alleging that fan blades on
certain engines manufactured by Pratt   Whitney infringe a U.S. patent held by Rolls-Royce. Rolls-Royce seeks damages in an unspecified amount plus interest, an injunction, a finding of willful infringement, and attorneys  fees. We
intend to vigorously defend the case and believe that Rolls-Royce s patent is invalid and that Pratt   Whitney s products do not infringe it. Trial in the matter could take place as early as March 2011. Should the plaintiff
ultimately prevail, the outcome of this matter could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which damages would be paid. On
November 5, 2010, Pratt   Whitney amended its previously-disclosed complaint against Rolls-Royce in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut, adding Rolls-Royce Group plc (Rolls-Royce Group), the parent of Rolls-Royce,
as a party, omitting previously asserted claims, and alleging that certain turbomachinery blades, engines and components manufactured by Rolls-Royce infringe a U.S. patent held by Pratt   Whitney. Pratt   Whitney seeks an
injunction, damages, interest, attorney s fees and other relief. On November 5, 2010, Pratt   Whitney also filed complaints against Rolls-Royce in the High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patent Court (HCJ) in the United
Kingdom (UK) and with the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC). The HCJ action alleges similar infringement claims against Rolls-Royce based upon a UK patent held by Pratt   Whitney and seeks damages plus interest and all other relief
to which Pratt   Whitney is entitled, including attorney s fees, expenses, and a permanent order preventing further infringements. The ITC complaint seeks a permanent exclusion order barring the importation into the U.S. of infringing
turbomachinery blades, engines and

engine components manufactured by Rolls-Royce and Rolls-Royce Group, and requests a permanent cease-and-desist order against Rolls-Royce and Rolls-Royce Group preventing further importing,
marketing, advertising, demonstrating, testing, distributing, licensing, offering for sale, or use of such infringing turbomachinery blades, engines and engine components.      Except as otherwise noted, we do not believe that resolution of any of the above matters will have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial
condition.      As described in Note 15, we extend performance and operating cost guarantees beyond our normal warranty and service
policies for extended periods in some of our products. We have accrued our estimate of the liability that may result under these guarantees and for service costs, which are probable and can be reasonably estimated.   
  We have accrued for environmental investigatory, remediation, operating and maintenance costs, performance guarantees and other litigation
and claims based on our estimate of the probable outcome of these matters. While it is possible that the outcome of these matters may differ from the recorded liability, we believe the resolution of these matters will not have a material impact on
our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.      We also have other commitments and
contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings, self-insurance programs and matters arising out of the normal course of business. We accrue contingencies based upon a range of possible outcomes. If no amount within this range is a better
estimate than any other, then we accrue the minimum amount.   
 
     Note 18: Segment Financial Data       Our operations are classified in six principal segments. The segments are generally determined based on the management of the businesses and on the basis of separate groups of operating companies, each
with general operating autonomy over diversified products and services.       Otis  products include elevators, escalators, moving walkways
and service sold to customers in the commercial and residential property industries around the world.       Carrier  products include HVAC
and refrigeration systems, controls, services and energy efficient products for residential, commercial, industrial and transportation applications.       UTC Fire   Security  products include fire and special hazard and suppression systems and firefighting equipment, security, monitoring and rapid response systems and service and security

57   

personnel for a diversified international customer base principally in the industrial, commercial and residential property sectors.       Pratt   Whitney  products include commercial, military, business jet and general aviation aircraft engines, parts and services, industrial gas turbines, geothermal power systems and space
propulsion sold to a diversified customer base, including international and domestic commercial airlines and aircraft leasing companies, aircraft manufacturers, and U.S. and foreign governments. Pratt   Whitney also provides product support
and a full range of overhaul, repair and fleet management services and produces land-based power generation equipment.   

Hamilton Sundstrand  provides aerospace and industrial products and aftermarket services for
diversified industries worldwide. Aerospace products include power generation, management and distribution systems, flight systems, engine control systems, environmental control systems, fire protection and detection systems, auxiliary power units
and propeller systems. Industrial products include air compressors, metering pumps and fluid handling equipment.       Sikorsky  products
include military and commercial helicopters, aftermarket helicopter and aircraft parts and services.   
 
        Segment Information.  Total
sales by segment include intersegment sales, which are generally made at prices approximating those that the selling entity is able to obtain on external sales. Segment information for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

58   

Geographic External Sales and Operating Profit.  Geographic external sales and operating profits are
attributed to the geographic regions based on their location of origin. U.S. external sales include export sales to commercial customers outside the U.S. and sales to the U.S. government, commercial and affiliated customers, which are known to be
for resale to customers outside the U.S. Long-lived assets are net fixed assets attributed to the specific geographic regions.       
 
  Sales from U.S. operations include export sales as follows:   
   
     Major Customers.  Net Sales include sales under prime contracts and subcontracts to the U.S. government, primarily related to Pratt   Whitney, Hamilton Sundstrand and Sikorsky products, as
follows:       
       Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)        
 
         59   

Comparative Stock Data (Unaudited)    

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The high and low prices are based on the Composite Tape of the New York Stock
Exchange. There were approximately 24,784 registered shareholders at January 31, 2011.       Performance Graph (Unaudited)    
  The following graph presents the cumulative total shareholder return for the five years ending December 31, 2010 for our common stock, as compared to
the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index and to the Dow Jones 30 Industrial Average. Our common stock price is a component of both indices. These figures assume that all dividends paid over the five-year period were reinvested, and that
the starting value of each index and the investment in common stock was $100.00 on December 31, 2005.   

60   

BOARD OF DIRECTORS          

Louis R. Ch nevert      Chairman
  Chief     Executive Officer     United
Technologies     Corporation  
   (Diversified Manufacturer)       
   John V. Faraci      Chairman and Chief  
  Executive Officer     International Paper  
   (Paper, Packaging and   
   Distribution)           Jean-Pierre Garnier      Operating Partner     Advent International      (Global Private Equity Firm)   
  Retired Chief Executive Officer  
  GlaxoSmithKline          Jamie S. Gorelick      Partner     WilmerHale      (Law Firm)      Former Deputy Attorney     General of the United States  
  Former General Counsel of     the Department of
Defense          Edward A. Kangas   
  Former Chairman and CEO,  
  Deloitte, Touche, Tohmatsu      (Audit and Tax
Services)           Ellen J. Kullman   
  Chair of the Board   CEO     DuPont  
   (Diversified Chemicals and Materials)    
     
     Charles R. Lee      Retired Chairman
and     Co-Chief Executive Officer Verizon Communications      (Telecommunications)           Richard
D. McCormick      Retired Chairman, President     and Chief Executive Officer     US West, Inc.      (Telecommunications)           Harold
McGraw III      Chairman, President and  
  Chief Executive Officer     The
McGraw-Hill     Companies      (Global
Information Services)           Richard B. Myers   
  General, U.S. Air Force (Ret.)  
  and former Chairman of the     Joint Chiefs of
Staff      (Military Leadership)       
   H. Patrick Swygert      President Emeritus  
  Howard University      (Educational
Institution)           Andr  Villeneuve   
  Chairman, International Regulatory Strategy Group, City of London      (Advisory Group)           Christine
Todd Whitman      President     The
Whitman Strategy     Group  
   (Environment and Public Policy Consulting)   
  Former EPA Administrator     Former Governor
of     New Jersey   
     
       Permanent Committees       
    Audit Committee       John V. Faraci,
Chair     Edward A. Kangas     Richard D.
McCormick     Richard B. Myers     H. Patrick
Swygert     Andr  Villeneuve      
    Committee on Compensation         and
Executive Development       Jean-Pierre Garnier, Chair     Jamie S. Gorelick     Edward A. Kangas     Charles R. Lee     Richard D. McCormick     Harold McGraw III     H. Patrick Swygert  
        Executive Committee       Louis R. Ch nevert, Chair     Charles R. Lee  
  Richard D. McCormick           Finance Committee       Charles R. Lee, Chair  
  Louis R. Ch nevert     John V.
Faraci     Jamie S. Gorelick     Ellen J.
Kullman     Richard B. Myers     Andr 
Villeneuve     Christine Todd Whitman   
     
      Committee on Nominations and Governance       Richard D. McCormick, Chair     John V. Faraci     Jean-Pierre Garnier     Charles R. Lee     Harold McGraw III     Christine Todd Whitman  
        Public Issues Review Committee    
  Christine Todd Whitman, Chair  
  Jean-Pierre Garnier     Jamie S. Gorelick  
  Ellen J. Kullman     Harold McGraw III  
  Richard B. Myers     H. Patrick Swygert  
  Andr  Villeneuve     
         61   

LEADERSHIP    
      
    Paul R. Adams       Senior Vice President,      Engineering, Pratt   Whitney   
   David Adler       President,   
  Sikorsky Aerospace Services       David G. Appel
      President,      Carrier Transicold
      Mark J. Barry       President,   
  Global Security Products,      UTC Fire  
Security       Alain M. Bellemare    
  President,      Hamilton Sundstrand   
   Richard H. Bennett, Jr.       Vice President,
Environment, Health   Safety       Warren M. Boley, Jr.       President, Military Engines,      Pratt   Whitney   
   Carey E. Bond       President, Sikorsky Global
Helicopters and      Chief Marketing Officer   
   J. Thomas Bowler, Jr.       Senior Vice President,
     Human Resources and      Organization
      Matthew F. Bromberg       Vice President
and      General Manager,      Customer
Service,      Hamilton Sundstrand       William M.
Brown       President,      UTC
Fire   Security       Scott A. Buckhout       President,      Global Fire Products,      UTC Fire   Security   

Louis R. Ch nevert       Chairman   Chief Executive Officer       Peter C. Christman, Jr.    
  President, Pratt   Whitney      Power
Systems       Geraud Darnis       President,
Carrier       Nancy M. Davis       Vice President
and      Chief Information Officer       Pierre
Dejoux       President, South Asia Pacific      and Gulf, Otis       Philippe Delpech       President, EMEA Carrier       John J. Doucette       President, Industrial,      Hamilton Sundstrand   
   Eileen P. Drake       Vice President, Operations
      Michael R. Dumais       Vice President,
Operations,      Hamilton Sundstrand       Charles
D. Gill, Jr.       Senior Vice President and      General Counsel       David L. Gitlin       President, Aerospace Customers and Business Development,      Hamilton Sundstrand   
   Bruno Grob       President, North and East Europe and
Africa, Otis       Lindsay Harvey    
  President, United Kingdom and Central Europe, Otis

Gregory J. Hayes       Senior Vice President and      Chief Financial Officer   
   David P. Hess       President, Pratt   Whitney
      Kathleen M. Hopko       Vice President,
Secretary and Associate General      Counsel   
   Todd J. Kallman       President, Commercial   
  Engines and Global Services, Pratt   Whitney   
   Ervin F. Lauterbach       President, Building Systems
     and Services,      North America,
Carrier       Robert F. Leduc       President,
787, Space Systems      and U.S. Classified Programs,      Hamilton Sundstrand       Peter F. Longo       Vice President, Controller       James G. Maser       President,      Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne   
   Michael B. Maurer       President, Sikorsky
Military Systems       Robert J. McDonough       President, Residential and      Commercial Systems,   
  North America, Carrier       J. Michael McQuade
      Senior Vice President,      Science
and Technology       Didier Michaud-Daniel    
  President, Otis

Raymond J. Moncini       Senior Vice President,      Operations, Carrier   
   Michael A. Monts       Vice President,   
  Business Practices       David E. Parekh    
  Vice President, Research and Director, United Technologies      Research Center       Jeffrey P. Pino       President, Sikorsky       Thomas I. Rogan       Vice President, Treasurer       Kelly Romano       Senior Vice President,      Sales and Marketing,   
  UTC Fire   Security       John Saabas
      President,      Pratt  
Whitney Canada       Pedro Sainz de Baranda    
  President, South Europe and Mediterranean, Otis       Ross
B. Shuster       President, HVAC Asia, Carrier   
   Tobin J. Treichel       Vice President, Tax   
   Charles Vo       President, North Asia   
  Pacific, Otis       Gregg Ward    
  Senior Vice President,      Government Affairs
      Randal E. Wilcox       President, North and
     South America, Otis   

62   

SHAREOWNER INFORMATION           
    Corporate Office       United Technologies Corporation      United Technologies Building   
  Hartford, Connecticut 06101      Telephone:
860.728.7000      This report is made available to shareowners in advance of the annual meeting of shareowners to be held at 2 p.m.,
April 13, 2011, in Phoenix, Arizona. The proxy statement will be made available to shareowners on or about February 25, 2011, at which time proxies for the meeting will be requested.   
  Information about UTC, including financial information, can be found at our website:  www.utc.com .   
   Stock Listing       New York Stock Exchange   
   Ticker Symbol       UTX   
   Transfer Agent and Registrar       Computershare Trust
Company, N.A., is the transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent for UTC s common stock. Questions and communications regarding transfer of stock, replacement of lost certificates, dividends and address changes, and the Direct
Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan should be directed to:      Computershare Trust Company, N.A.   
  250 Royall Street      Canton, Massachusetts 02021
     Telephone:      Within
the U.S.: 1.800.488.9281      Outside the U.S.: 1.781.575.2724      Website:  www.computershare.com/investor       TDD: 1.800.952.9245   
  Telecommunications device for the hearing impaired.   
   Certifications       UTC has included as Exhibit 31 to
its Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission certificates of its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller certifying, among other things, the information contained in
the Form 10-K.      Annually UTC submits to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) a certificate of UTC s Chief Executive Officer
certifying that he was not aware of any violation by UTC of NYSE corporate governance listing standards as of the date of the certification.   
   Dividends       Dividends are usually paid on the 10th
day of March, June, September and December.   
 
    Electronic Access       Rather than receiving mailed copies, registered shareowners may sign up at the following website for electronic communications, including annual meeting materials, stock plan statements and tax documents:
 www.computershare-na.com/green .      For annual meeting materials, your enrollment is revocable until a week before each
year s record date for the annual meeting. Beneficial shareowners may be able to request electronic access by contacting their broker or bank, or Broadridge Financial Solutions at:  http://enroll.icsdelivery.com/utc .   
   Additional Information       Shareowners may obtain a
copy of the UTC Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by writing to:      Corporate
Secretary      United Technologies Corporation      United Technologies Building      Hartford, Connecticut 06101   
  For additional information about UTC, please contact Investor Relations at the above corporate office address or visit our website at:
 www.utc.com .       Shareowner Information Services       Our Internet and telephone services give shareowners fast access to UTC financial results. The 24-hour-a-day, toll-free telephone service includes recorded summaries of UTC s quarterly earnings
information and other company news. Callers also may request copies of our quarterly earnings and news releases, by either fax or mail, and obtain copies of the UTC Annual Report and Form 10-K.   
  To access the service, dial 1.800.881.1914 from any touchtone phone and follow the recorded instructions.   
   Direct Registration System       If your shares are
held in street name through a broker and you are interested in participating in the Direct Registration System, you may have your broker transfer the shares to Computershare Trust Company, N.A., electronically through the Direct Registration System.
Interested investors can request a description of this book-entry form of registration by calling Shareholder Direct at: 1.800.881.1914.   
   Environmentally Friendly Report       This annual
report is printed on recycled and recyclable paper.   
    
    www.utc.com        www.carrier.com        www.hamiltonsundstrand.com    
   www.otis.com

www.pw.utc.com        www.sikorsky.com        www.utcfireandsecurity.com    
   www.utcpower.com    

63   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21        United Technologies Corporation        Subsidiary and Affiliate Listing    
   December 31, 2010        

Entity Name    
      
     State/Country of Incorporation     
 
     3090445 Nova Scotia Limited    
      
   Canada    
 
     3227441 Nova Scotia Company    
      
   Canada    
 
     3234808 Nova Scotia Limited    
      
   Canada    
 
     Australia Holdings Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Beesail Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Caricor Ltd.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier Commercial Refrigeration, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier Enterprise, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Carrier HVACR Investments B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Carrier Technologies ULC    
      
   Canada    
 
     Ceesail Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Asia Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Fire Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group (International) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group Properties Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Group Security Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb International (Netherlands) BV    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Chubb International Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb International Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Nederland B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Chubb Overseas Investments Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Chubb Security Holdings Australia Limited    
      
   Australia    
 
     Clipper Windpower, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Commonwealth Luxembourg Holdings S.  r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     Empresas Carrier, S. De R.L. De C.V.    
      
   Mexico    
 
     Fyrnetics (Hong Kong) Limited    
      
   Hong Kong    
 
     GST Holdings Limited    
      
   Cayman Islands    
 
     Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Hamilton Sundstrand Holdings, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Hamilton Sundstrand International Holdings Ltd.    
      
   Cayman Islands    
 
     Helicopter Support, Inc.    
      
   Connecticut    
 
     International Comfort Products, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kaysail Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde America Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde Fire Protection Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde International Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde Technologies Inc. (*)    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Kidde UK    
      
   England    
 
     Kidde US Holdings Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     KNA Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Latin American Holding, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Lenel Systems International, Inc.    
      
   Delaware     

United Technologies Corporation        Subsidiary and Affiliate Listing        December 31, 2010    

Entity Name    
      
     State/Country of Incorporation     
 
     Milton Roy Company    
      
   Pennsylvania    
 
     Moonless Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Nippon Otis Elevator Company    
      
   Japan    
 
     Noresco, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     NSI, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Otis Elevator Company    
      
   New Jersey    
 
     Otis Elevator Korea    
      
   Republic of Korea    
 
     Otis Holdings GmbH   Co. OHG    
      
   Germany    
 
     Otis International Holdings UK Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Otis Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Otis Pacific Holdings B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     Otis S.C.S.    
      
   France    
 
     Parkview Participations LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Parkview Treasury Services (UK) Limited    
      
   United Kingdom    
 
     Pilgrim House Group Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Canada Corp.    
      
   Canada    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Canada Holdings Corp.    
      
   Canada    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Canada Leasing, Limited Partnership    
      
   Canada    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Engine Leasing, LLC    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Power Systems, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Pratt   Whitney Rocketdyne, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Pratt Aero Limited Partnership    
      
   Canada    
 
     Ratier-Figeac, SAS    
      
   France    
 
     SICLI Holding SAS    
      
   France    
 
     Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     Sirius Korea Limited    
      
   England    
 
     Springer Carrier Ltda.    
      
   Brazil    
 
     Sullair Corporation    
      
   Indiana    
 
     Taylor Company S.r.L.    
      
   Italy    
 
     Trumbull Holdings SCS    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies Australia Holdings Limited    
      
   Australia    
 
     United Technologies Canada, Ltd.    
      
   Canada    
 
     United Technologies Cortran, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     United Technologies Electronic Controls, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     United Technologies Far East Limited    
      
   Hong Kong    
 
     United Technologies Finance (U.K.) Limited    
      
   England    
 
     United Technologies France SAS    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies Holding GmbH    
      
   Germany    
 
     United Technologies Holdings Limited    
      
   England    
 
     United Technologies Holdings SAS    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies International Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     United Technologies International Corporation-Asia Private Limited    
      
   Singapore    
 
     United Technologies International SAS    
      
   France    
 
     United Technologies Luxembourg S.  r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     United Technologies Paris SNC    
      
   France    
 
     UT Finance Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UT Luxembourg Holding I S.  r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg     

United Technologies Corporation        Subsidiary and Affiliate Listing        December 31, 2010    

Entity Name    
      
     State/Country of Incorporation     
 
     UT Luxembourg Holding II S.  r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     UT Park View, Inc.    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UTC Canada Corporation    
      
   Canada    
 
     UTC Fire   Security Americas Corporation, Inc    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UTC Fire   Security Corporation    
      
   Delaware    
 
     UTC Fire   Security Luxembourg S.  r.l.    
      
   Luxembourg    
 
     UTCL Holdings, Limited    
      
   Canada    
 
     UTCL Investments B.V.    
      
   Netherlands    
 
     UTX Holdings S.C.S.    
      
   France    
 
     White Peak Finance Ireland    
      
   Ireland    
 
     Wytwornia Sprzetu Komunikacyjnego PZL-Rzeszow S.A.    
      
   Poland    
 
     Xizi Otis Elevator Company Limited    
      
   China    
 
     Zardoya Otis, S.A.    
      
   Spain         

*  
  Kidde Technologies Inc. also conducts business as Kidde Aerospace   Defense, Fenwal Safety Systems and Kidde Dual Spectrum.     
  Other subsidiaries of the Registrant have been omitted from this listing because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not
constitute a significant subsidiary as defined by Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-K.   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-167771), in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-77991) as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 (No. 333-77991) and in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-163822, 333-156390, 333-156385, 333-150643, 333-125293, 333-110020, 333-100724, 333-100723, 333-100718, 333-82911, 333-77817, 333-21853, 333-21851, 033-57769 and 033-51385) of United Technologies Corporation of our
report dated February 10, 2011 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report to Shareowners, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 10, 2011 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears on page S-I of this Form 10-K.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Hartford, Connecticut   
  February 10, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 9
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24        UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION        Power of Attorney    
  The undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the
 Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys
and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and
regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically,
but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned, in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and
confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.       

/s/ JOHN V. FARACI   
 
  John V. Faraci    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ JEAN-PIERRE GARNIER   
 
  Jean-Pierre Garnier    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ JAMIE S. GORELICK   
 
  Jamie S. Gorelick    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ EDWARD A. KANGAS   
 
  Edward A. Kangas    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ ELLEN J. KULLMAN   
 
  Ellen J. Kullman    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ CHARLES R. LEE   
 
  Charles R. Lee    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ RICHARD D. MCCORMICK   
 
  Richard D. McCormick    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ HAROLD W. MCGRAW III   
 
  Harold McGraw III    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ RICHARD B. MYERS   
 
  Richard B. Myers    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ H. PATRICK SWYGERT   
 
  H. Patrick Swygert    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ ANDR  VILLENEUVE   
 
  Andr  Villeneuve    

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION    
   Power of Attorney       The
undersigned, as a member of the Board of Directors, or as an officer of UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), or as a member of a committee of said Board, or in all of said capacities, hereby
constitutes and appoints CHARLES D. GILL, KATHLEEN M. HOPKO and GREGORY J. HAYES, or any one of them, his or her true and lawful attorneys and agents to do any and all acts and things and execute any and all instruments which the said attorneys and
agents may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Corporation to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules and regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof in connection with the
filing of the Annual Report of the Corporation on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, including specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the power and authority to sign the name of the undersigned,
in the capacities aforesaid or in any other capacity, to such Form 10-K Annual Report filed or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and any and all amendments to the said Form 10-K Annual Report, and any and all instruments and
documents filed as a part of or in connection with the said Form 10-K Annual Report or any amendments thereto; hereby ratifying and confirming all that the said attorneys and agents, or any one of them, have done, shall do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has signed this Power of Attorney this 7th day of February, 2011.   

/s/ CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN   
 
  Christine Todd Whitman    

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 10
 dex31.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) / 15D-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

Rule 13a-14(a) / 15d-14(a) Certifications 

Exhibit 31.1       CERTIFICATION      I, Louis R. Ch nevert, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Technologies Corporation;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b.  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

/s/ LOUIS R. CH NEVERT   

Louis R. Ch nevert     Chairman   Chief Executive Officer    

Date: February 10, 2011  

Exhibit 31.2       CERTIFICATION      I, Gregory J. Hayes, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Technologies Corporation;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b.  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

/s/ GREGORY J. HAYES   

Gregory J. Hayes   
 
  Date: February 10, 2011  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

Exhibit 31.3       CERTIFICATION      I, Peter F. Longo, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of United Technologies Corporation;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a.  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b.  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c.  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a.  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

/s/ PETER F. LONGO   

Peter F. Longo   
 
  Date: February 10, 2011  

Vice President, Controller    

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 11
 dex32.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

Section 1350 Certifications 

Exhibit 32        Section 1350 Certifications        Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002        (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United
States Code)       Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section
1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of United Technologies Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), does hereby certify that:   
  The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the   Form 10-K  ) of the Corporation fully
complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Corporation.       

Date: February 10, 2011  

/s/ LOUIS R. CH NEVERT   

Louis R. Ch nevert   

Chairman   Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 10, 2011  

/s/ GREGORY J. HAYES   

Gregory J. Hayes   

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

Date: February 10, 2011  

/s/ PETER F. LONGO   

Peter F. Longo   

Vice President, Controller    

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 utx-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 utx-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 utx-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 utx-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 utx-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 utx-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

