<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090226_10-K_edgar_data_1063761_0001047469-09-001894_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3823162</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>317895</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>637310</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2185931</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>86</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-09-001894.hdr.sgml : 20090226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090226170534
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-09-001894
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001063761
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				046268599
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14469
		FILM NUMBER:		09638541

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438
		BUSINESS PHONE:		317-636-1600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 J6o4wjOJ6lWnLbmoYnujqafI1vGHiXMFBNBGIpD8Ramz89avxxdAYzBC5Pa5l0gB
 IB+7TeHHiQmt8tBXRH8vyA==

 0001047469-09-001894.txt : 20090226

10-K
 1
 a2190804z10-k.htm
 10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

225 West Washington Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204      (Address of principal executive offices) (ZIP Code)   

   (317) 636-1600      (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:     

Title of each class

Name of each exchange 
on which registered

Common stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act). Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller company. See
the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the
Act). Yes        No       

              The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $19,730 million based on the
closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2008.   

As
of January 31, 2009, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 231,303,288 and 8,000 shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding, respectively.   

Documents Incorporated By Reference     

              Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV; and portions of the Registrant's Proxy
Statement in connection with its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.   

Table of Contents    

         Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
December 31, 2008   

           TABLE OF CONTENTS            

Item No.    

Page No.    

Part I      

1.   
      
    Business   
      
    3   

1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   
     
   8   

1B.   
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
     
   13   

2.   
     
   Properties   
     
   13   

3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   
     
   47   

4.   
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
     
   47   

Part II      

5.   
      
    Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
    48   

6.   
     
   Selected Financial Data   
     
   49   

7.   
     
   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     
   49   

7A.   
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk   
     
   49   

8.   
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     
   49   

9.   
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     
   49   

9A.   
     
   Controls and Procedures   
     
   49   

9B.   
     
   Other Information   
     
   50   

Part III      

10.   
      
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
    51   

11.   
     
   Executive Compensation   
     
   51   

12.   
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     
   51   

13.   
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
     
   51   

14.   
     
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
     
   51   

Part IV      

15.   
      
    Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
    52   

Signatures    
      
    53   

2  

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1. Business            

              Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership
subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties. In this report, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop, and manage retail real estate properties in five retail real estate platforms: regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers , The Mills ,
community/lifestyle centers, and international properties. As of December 31, 2008, we owned or held an interest in 324 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 164
regional malls, 16 additional regional malls and four additional community centers acquired as a result of the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, 40 Premium Outlet
Centers, 16 The Mills, 70 community/lifestyle centers, and 14 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. We also own interests in four parcels of land held for future
development. In the United States, we have one new property currently under development aggregating approximately 0.4 million square feet which will open during 2009. Internationally, we have
ownership interests in 52 European shopping centers (in France, Italy and Poland), seven Premium Outlet Centers in Japan, one Premium Outlet Center in Mexico, one Premium Outlet Center in
Korea, and one shopping center in China. Also, through joint venture arrangements we have ownership interests in the following properties under development internationally: a 24% interest in two
shopping centers in Italy, a 40% interest in a Premium Outlet Center in Japan, and a 32.5% interest in three additional shopping centers under construction in China.   

              For
a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2008, see the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" section of the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Other Policies     

              The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect
to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

Investment Policies      

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may, at our discretion, invest in mortgages and other real estate interests
consistent with our qualification as a REIT. We do not currently intend to invest to a significant extent in mortgages or deeds of trust; however, we hold a mortgage note which results in us receiving
100% of the economics of a property. We may invest in participating or convertible mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow or any appreciation in the value of the property.   

              We
may invest in securities of other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage
ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification. These REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75%
of our total assets. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income must be derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents
from real property," dividends from other REIT's and, in certain circumstances, interest from certain types
of temporary investments. At least 95% of our income must be derived from such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or
from other combinations of the foregoing.   

              Subject
to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be
in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire
all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

  3  

Table of Contents   

Financing Policies      

We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our ratio of debt to total assets or market value,
as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership's lines of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the
Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements
contain other covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for
our equity securities and the debt securities of the Operating Partnership.   

If
our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital through additional equity offerings, debt financing, creating joint ventures with existing
ownership interests in properties, retention of cash flows or a combination of these methods. Our ability to retain cash flows is limited by the requirement for REITs to distribute at least 90% of
their taxable income. We must also take into account taxes that would be imposed on undistributed taxable income. If the Board of Directors determines to raise additional equity capital, it may,
without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any
manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also may include additional
classes of preferred stock, which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our securities. Any such
offering could dilute a stockholder's investment in us.   

              We
expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating
Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be
secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by
the Operating Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly be required to do so.   

              The
Operating Partnership has a $3.5 billion revolving unsecured credit facility, or the Credit Facility. We issue debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may
issue our debt securities which may be convertible into capital stock or be accompanied by warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables. The proceeds from
any borrowings or financings may be used for one or more of the following:   

financing acquisitions;           developing or redeveloping properties;           refinancing existing indebtedness;           working capital or capital improvements; or           meeting the income distribution
requirements applicable to REITs, if we have income without the receipt of cash sufficient
to enable us to meet such distribution requirements.    

We
may also finance acquisitions through the following:   

issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock;           issuance of additional units of limited partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership;           issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;           issuance of other securities; or    
       sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.    

The
ability of the Operating Partnership to issue units of limited partnership interest to transferors of properties or other partnership interests may defer gain recognition for tax
purposes by the transferor. It may also be advantageous for us since there are ownership limits that restrict the number of shares of our capital stock that investors may own.   

              We
do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional
indebtedness on such properties. We also have covenants on our unsecured debt that limit our total secured debt.   

  4  

Table of Contents   

              Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining permanent financing on attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a
single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage interest on the property in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture with a third party,
or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities are structured so that they would not be
consolidated with us in the event we would ever become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the
proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as
part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

Conflict of Interest Policies      

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted
governance principles governing our affairs and the Board of Directors, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees. At least a majority of the members of our Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing
standards for New York Stock Exchange companies and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are significant stockholders. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property
acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must be approved by a majority of our non-affiliated directors.   

              The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons and the other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to
avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property and the limited partners of the Operating Partnership, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and
require the Operating Partnership to sell any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by each of the Simons contain
covenants limiting the ability of the Simons to participate in certain shopping center activities in North America.   

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities      

We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it
is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have
authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may
issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under
the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we
participate.   

    Competition     

              Our principal competitors are nine other major United States or internationally publicly-held companies that own or operate
regional malls, outlet centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with many commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of retail real
estate that operate in our trade areas. Some of our properties and investments are of the same type and are within the same market area as competitor properties. The existence of competitive
properties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents
we can obtain. This results in competition for both the acquisition of prime sites (including land for development and operating properties) and for tenants to occupy the space that we and our
competitors develop and manage. In addition, our properties compete against other forms of retailing, such as catalog and e-commerce websites, that offer retail products and services.   

We
believe that we have a competitive advantage in the retail real estate business as a result of:   

the size, quality and diversity of our properties;           our management and operational expertise;           our extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders;           our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate
alliances; and    
 
  5  

Table of Contents   

our ability to use our size to reduce the total occupancy cost of our tenants.    

Our
size reduces our dependence upon individual retail tenants. Approximately 4,300 different retailers occupy more than 28,600 stores in our properties and no retail tenant represents
more than 2.0% of our properties' total minimum rents.   

    Certain Activities     

              During the past three years, we have:   

issued 4,353,882 shares of common stock upon the exchange of units of limited partnership interest of the Operating
Partnership, or Units;           issued 914,695 restricted shares of common stock, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan;           issued 927,790 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under 1998 Plan;           purchased and retired 93,000
shares of common stock;           purchased 572,000 shares of common stock in the open market;           issued 5,426,696 shares of common
stock upon the conversion of 6,786,886 shares of Series I preferred stock;    
         redeemed all of the outstanding 8,000,000 shares of Series F preferred stock;           redeemed all of the outstanding
3,000,000 shares of Series G preferred stock;           issued 541,976 shares of Series I preferred stock upon the exchange of Series I preferred units;          issued 4,000 shares of common stock upon conversion and retirement of all 4,000 shares of Class C common stock;          borrowed a maximum amount
of $2.6 billion under our the Credit Facility; the outstanding amount of borrowings under
this facility as of December 31, 2008 was $1.0 billion;           as a co-borrower with the Operating Partnership, borrowed $1.8 billion under an unsecured acquisition
facility in connection with our acquisition of the former Chelsea Property Group in 2004, that was fully repaid as of December 31, 2006;           provided annual reports containing
financial statements certified by our independent registered public accounting firm and
quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders.           not made loans to other entities or persons, including our officers and directors, other than to
certain joint venture
properties;           not invested in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control, other than the Operating
Partnership, certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and to acquire interests in real estate;           not underwritten securities of other issuers; and           not engaged in the purchase and sale or turnover of investments for the purpose of trading.    

Employees     

              At January 16, 2009, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,300 persons at various properties and offices throughout the
United States, of which approximately 1,800 were part-time. Approximately 1,100 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, IN and 150 were located at
our Chelsea offices in Roseland, NJ.   

    Corporate Headquarters     

Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is
(317) 636-1600.   

    Available Information     

              We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or
Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed
with or furnished to the SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the
"About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our
Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  6  

Table of Contents   

The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit
Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating Committee Charter, Governance Committee Charter, and Executive Committee Charter.   

              In
addition, we intend to disclose on our internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE.   

As
required by NYSE Rule 303A.12, in 2008 we filed with the NYSE the annual chief executive officer certificate with no qualifications, indicating that the chief executive
officer is unaware of any violations of the NYSE corporate governance standards. In addition, we are filing certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

Executive Officers of the Registrant     

              The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of December 31, 2008.   

Name    
     
   Age    
     
   Position    

David Simon  

47  
     
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard S. Sokolov  

59  
     
  President and Chief Operating Officer  

Gary L. Lewis  

50  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President   Leasing  

Stephen E. Sterrett  

53  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

John Rulli  

52  
     
  Executive Vice President and President   Simon Management Group  

James M. Barkley  

57  
     
  General Counsel; Secretary  

Andrew A. Juster  

56  
     
  Executive Vice President and Treasurer  

The
executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. For biographical information of David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E.
Sterrett, and James M. Barkley, see Item 10 of this report.   

              Mr. Lewis
is the Senior Executive Vice President and President   Leasing of Simon Property. Mr. Lewis joined Melvin Simon  
Associates, Inc., or MSA, in 1986 and held various positions with MSA and Simon Property prior to becoming Senior Executive Vice President and President   Leasing. In 2002 he
was appointed to Executive Vice President   Leasing and in 2007 he became Senior Executive Vice President and President   Leasing.   

              Mr. Rulli
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and President   Simon Management Group and previously served as Executive Vice
President   Chief Operating Officer   Operating Properties and prior to that as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. He joined MSA in 1988
and held various positions with MSA before becoming Simon Property's Executive Vice President in 1993 and Chief Administrative Officer in 2000. In December 2003, he was appointed to Executive Vice
President   Chief Operating Officer   Operating Properties and in November 2007 to Executive Vice President and President   Simon Management
Group.   

              Mr. Juster
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and Treasurer. He joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has
held various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008.   

  7  

Table of Contents    

Item 1A. Risk Factors            

                 The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should
not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties and we may update them in our future periodic reports.   

    Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets     

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.      

As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the related premium and discount, totaled
$18.0 billion, of which approximately $1.5 billion matures during 2009, including recurring principal amortization on mortgages maturing during 2009. We are subject to the risks normally
associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if
developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property. Should such events occur, our operations may be
adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from this is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee
resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

The ongoing disruption in the credit markets may adversely affect our ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.      

We depend primarily on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can
meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. The disruption in
the capital markets that began in 2008 has continued into 2009, restricting access to capital markets for many companies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for
future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.      

Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The
credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and
the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund
our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.      

We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a
portion of our variable rate debt, or in the case of a fair value hedge, effectively convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe
rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful.   

Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.   

  8  

Table of Contents   

    Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations     

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties.      

We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to
various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not
perform as well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:   

construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;    
           we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans on favorable terms, if at all;          we may be
unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;           occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and
         we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those
consents may be withheld.    

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.      

Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a
result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a property, we cannot
assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.   

    Environmental Risks     

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.      

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous
owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose
liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or
removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the
air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain,
or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs
of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The
presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.      

Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These
environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
However, we cannot assure you that:   

existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;          any previous owner,
occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;    
 
  9  

Table of Contents   

the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of
nearby properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or           future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the
interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.    

Retail Operations Risks     

Deteriorating economic conditions are adversely affecting the general retail environment.      

Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally,
including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence
and terrorist activities. A recession is currently affecting the economy and consumer spending in the United States has recently declined. The unemployment rate is rising and consumer confidence has
decreased significantly. In addition, we derive our cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom are currently under considerable economic stress. A prolonged recession is
likely to adversely affect our tenants and as a result this could affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant deterioration in our cash flow from operations could require
us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing.   

We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at existing properties.      

We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.
Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than
the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected.   

Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these
tenants.      

Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our
properties could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store
and larger store, also referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We do not control the
disposition of those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be
entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges.
Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline
significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or
anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.   

We face potential adverse effects from the increasing number of tenant bankruptcies.      

Although bankruptcy filings by retailers occur regularly in the course of our operations, the number of tenant bankruptcies has
increased substantially in the past twelve months. We continually seek to re-lease vacant spaces resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor
tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our
re-leasing strategy.   

    Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties     

We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance
them.      

As of December 31, 2008, we owned interests in 183 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 18 properties are
included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 165 properties under the   

  10  

Table of Contents   

  equity
method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture properties. We serve as general partner or property manager for 93 of these 165 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as
selling or refinancing these properties, require the consent of the other owners. Of the properties for which we do not serve as general partner or property manager, 62 are in our international joint
ventures. The other owners also have other participating rights that we consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are
managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.      

Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property. As of
December 31, 2008, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees and other guarantee obligations to support $71.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively, of our total
$6.6 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness. A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit.   

Other Factors Affecting Our Business     

Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.      

CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services,
administrative, property and liability insurance costs, and security costs. We historically have used leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. Recently, we
have made a concerted effort to convert our leases to a fixed payment methodology which fixes our tenants' CAM contributions and should in turn reduce the volatility of and limitations on the
recoveries we collect from our tenants for the reimbursement of our property operating expenses. However, with respect to both variable and fixed payment methodologies, the amount of CAM charges we
bill to our tenants may not allow us to recover all of these operating costs.   

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.      

Our properties compete with other retail properties for tenants on the basis of the rent charged and location. The principal
competition may come from existing or future developments in the same market areas and from discount shopping centers, outlet malls, catalogues, discount shopping clubs and electronic commerce. The
presence of competitive properties also affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. Renovations and expansions at competing malls could also negatively affect our
properties.   

              We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified
management.   

Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.      

We hold interests in joint venture properties that are under operation in Italy, France, Poland, Japan, Korea, Mexico, and China and we
have recently made an investment in a U.K. retail real estate company. We may pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities
carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks include:   

adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;           changes in foreign political and economic environments,
regionally, nationally, and locally;           challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and
litigation;           differing lending practices;           differences in cultures;           changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;
          difficulties in managing international operations; and           obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.

11  

Table of Contents   

Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented approximately 6.3% of the GLA of all of our
properties at December 31, 2008), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.   

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.      

We maintain commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the
United States through wholly-owned captive insurance entities and other self-insurance mechanisms. Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd. are our
wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries, and have agreed to indemnify our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses for the properties that are covered under these arrangements. The
carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through these captive insurance
entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt
or other financial obligations related to the property.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion per
occurrence for certified foreign acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for non-certified domestic acts of terrorism. The current federal laws which provide this coverage
are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks in high profile markets could adversely affect our property values,
revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

    Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes     

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT      

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the
Internal Revenue Code. We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner which allows us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We intend to continue to operate in
this manner. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of
stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. REIT qualification is governed by highly technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited
judicial or administrative
interpretations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.   

If
we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or ultimately to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief
provisions do not apply:   

we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;    
           we will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates; and     
           unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.    
 
  12  

Table of Contents    

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments            

None.   

Item 2. Properties            

United States Properties      

Our U.S. properties primarily consist of regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, community/lifestyle centers, and other
properties. These properties contain an aggregate of approximately 246 million square feet of gross leasable area, or GLA, of which we own approximately 152.8 million square feet. Total
estimated retail sales at the properties in 2008 were approximately $62 billion.   

              Regional
malls typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores connecting the
anchors. Additional stores are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 164 regional malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size from approximately 400,000 to
2.3 million square feet of GLA. Our regional malls contain in the aggregate more than 19,300 occupied stores, including approximately 740 anchors, which are mostly national retailers.   

Premium
Outlet Centers generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores located in an open-air center. Our 40 Premium Outlet Centers range in size from
approximately 200,000 to 850,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlet Centers are generally located near major metropolitan areas and tourist destinations including New York City, Los Angeles,
Boston, Palm Springs, Orlando, Las Vegas, and Honolulu.   

              The
Mills generally range in size from 1.0 million to 2.3 million square feet of GLA and are located in major metropolitan areas. They have a combination of traditional
mall, outlet center, and big box retailers and entertainment uses. The 16 regional malls acquired in the Mills acquisition are identified in this section as the Mills Regional Malls. These malls
typically range in size from 700,000 to 1.3 million square feet of GLA and contain a wide variety of national retailers.   

              Community/lifestyle
centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than our regional malls. Our 70 community/lifestyle centers generally range in size from approximately 100,000 to
900,000 square feet of GLA. Community/lifestyle centers are designed to serve a larger trade area and typically contain anchor stores and other national retail tenants, which occupy a significant
portion of the GLA of the center. We also own traditional community shopping centers that focus primarily on value-oriented and convenience goods and services. These centers are usually anchored by a
supermarket, discount retailer, or drugstore and are designed to service a neighborhood area. Finally, we own open-air centers adjacent to our regional malls designed to take advantage of
the drawing power of the mall.   

              We
also have interests in 14 other shopping centers or outlet centers. These properties range in size from approximately 85,000 to 1.0 million square feet of GLA and in total
represent less than 1% of our total operating income before depreciation.   

              The
following table provides representative data for our U.S. properties on a gross basis as of December 31, 2008:   

As
of December 31, 2008, approximately 92.4% of the owned GLA in regional malls and the retail space of the other properties was leased, approximately 98.9% of owned GLA in the
Premium Outlet Centers was leased, approximately 94.5% of the owned GLA for The Mills and 87.4% of owned GLA for the Mills regional malls was leased, and approximately 90.7% of owned GLA in the
community/lifestyle centers was leased.   

              We
own 100% of 203 of our properties, effectively control 18 properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 103 properties through unconsolidated joint
venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 314 properties. Substantially all of our joint venture properties are   

  13  

Table of Contents   

subject
to rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale rights for all partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry. Our partners in
our joint ventures may initiate these provisions at any time, which will result in either the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire their partnership interest or the disposal of our
partnership interest.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, the properties acquired in the Mills acquisition, and community/lifestyle centers
located in the United States, including Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2008.   

  14  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

15  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

16  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

17  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

18  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

19  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

20  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

21  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

22  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

23  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

24  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Gross Leasable Area    

Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Anchor    
     
   Mall   
Freestanding    
     
   Total    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

30.  
     
   Philadelphia Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Limerick (Philadelphia)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2007  

98.8  
  %  

549,070  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware,
Sony  

31.  
     
   Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Mercedes (McAllen)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2006  

97.9  
  %  

578,890  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger  

32.  
     
   Round Rock Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Round Rock (Austin)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2006  

100.0  
  %  

431,621  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

33.  
     
   Seattle Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   Tulalip (Seattle)  
     
   Ground Lease (2035)  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2005  

100.0  
  %  

402,668  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Juicy Couture, Kenneth Cole, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Sony  

34.  
     
   St. Augustine Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   St. Augustine (Jacksonville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.6  
  %  

328,632  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama  

35.  
     
   The Crossings Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Tannersville  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2009)(7)  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  

411,731  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, J.Crew, Liz Claiborne, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

36.  
     
   Vacaville Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Vacaville  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  

442,042  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware  

37.  
     
   Waikele Premium Outlets  
     
   HI  
     
   Waipahu (Honolulu)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.7  
  %  

209,846  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Barneys New York, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th  

38.  
     
   Waterloo Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Waterloo  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.2  
  %  

417,577  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, VF Outlet  

39.  
     
   Woodbury Common Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Central Valley (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  

844,246  
     
   Banana Republic, Burberry, Chanel, Chloe, Coach, Dior, Dolce   Gabbana, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th  

40.  
     
   Wrentham Village Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Wrentham (Boston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  

615,713  
     
   Banana Republic, Barneys New York, Burberry, Coach, Hugo Boss, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragmo, Sony, Williams-Sonoma  

Total U.S. Premium Outlet Centers GLA   

16,383,378   

25  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

26  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

27  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

28  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

29  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Gross Leasable Area    

Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Anchor    
     
   Mall   
Freestanding    
     
   Total    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

4.  
     
   Concord Mills  
     
   NC  
     
   Concord (Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

29.6%  
  (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

97.0  
  %  

1,347,377  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, FYE, The Children's Place Outlet, Dave   Buster's, NIKE, T.J. Maxx, Group USA, Sun   Ski, AC Moore,
 Off Broadway Shoes, Old Navy, Bed Bath   Beyond, NASCAR Speedpark, AMC Theatres  

5.  
     
   Discover Mills  
     
   GA  
     
   Lawrenceville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

95.2  
  %  

1,183,562  
     
   Bass Pro Shops, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Neiman Marcus Last Call, Medieval Times, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, ROSS Dress for Less, Sears Appliance Outlet,
Sun   Ski Sports, Urban Behavior, Woodward Skatepark, Dave   Buster's, AMC Theatres  

6.  
     
   Franklin Mills  
     
   PA  
     
   Philadelphia  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

94.9  
  %  

1,753,021  
     
   Army Experience Center, Dave   Buster's, JCPenney Outlet Store, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls HomeGoods, Modell's Sporting Goods, Group USA, Bed Bath   Beyond, Sam Ash Music, Off 5th Saks Fifth
Avenue, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shores, Sears Appliance Outlet, H M, Woodward Skatepark, AMC Theatres  

7.  
     
   Grapevine Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Grapevine (Dallas-Ft. Worth)  
     
   Fee  

29.6%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

97.3  
  %  

1,775,656  
     
   Bed, Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Forever 21, Group USA The Clothing Co. JCPenney Outlet, Marshalls, NIKE, OFF 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, Old Navy,
Virgin Megastore, Western Warehouse, Gameworks, AMC Theatres, Dr. Pepper Star Center, Sun   Ski Sports, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Sears Appliance Outlet, Bass Pro Outdoor World, Woodward Skate Park  

8.  
     
   Great Mall  
     
   CA  
     
   Milpitas (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

24.5%  
  (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

93.0  
  %  

1,380,741  
     
   Last Call Nieman Marcus, Sports Authority, Group USA, Old Navy, Kohl's, Dave   Busters, H M, Sears Appliance Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, NIKE, Century
Theatres(8)  

9.  
     
   Gurnee Mills  
     
   IL  
     
   Gurnee (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

95.6  
  %  

1,821,704  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond, Burlington Coat Factory, H M, JCPenney Outlet Store, Kohl's, Marshall's Home Goods, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Nickles   Dimes, Sears
Grand, The Sports Authority, T.J. Maxx, VF Outlet, Marcus Cinema, Last Call Neiman Marcus  

10.  
     
   Katy Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Katy (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

31.3%  
  (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

93.2  
  %  

1,574,216  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath and Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, F.Y.E.-For Your Entertainment, Marshalls, Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center, Nike Factory Store, Off 5th Saks Fifth
Avenue Outlet, Sun   Ski Sports, American Theatres, Old West Warehouse, Old Navy  

30  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Gross Leasable Area    

Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Anchor    
     
   Mall   
Freestanding    
     
   Total    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

11.  
     
   Ontario Mills  
     
   CA  
     
   Ontario  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

94.5  
  %  

1,481,954  
     
   Burlington Coat Factory, Totally for Kids, NIKE, Gameworks, The Children's Place Outlet, Cost Plus World Market, Marshalls, JCPenney Outlet, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Nordstrom Rack,
Dave   Busters, Group USA, Sam Ash Music, Off Broadway Shoes, AMC Theatres(8)  

12.  
     
   Opry Mills  
     
   TN  
     
   Nashville  
     
   Fee  

24.5%  
  (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

96.5  
  %  

1,158,952  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Dave   Buster's, The Gibson Showcase, Bed Bath   Beyond, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Barnes   Noble, Old Navy, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nike Factory
Store, Sun   Ski Sports, BLACKLION, Regal Cinema, XXI Forever  

13.  
     
   Potomac Mills  
     
   VA  
     
   Prince William (Washington, D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

96.7  
  %  

1,515,731  
     
   Group USA, Marshall's, T.J. Maxx, Sears Appliance Outlet, Old Navy, JCPenney Outlet, Urban Behavior, Burlington Coat Factory, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nordstrom Rack and Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet,
Costco Warehouse, The Children's Place, AMC Theatres, Modell's Sporting Goods, Books-A-Million, The Sports Authority, H M, Last Call Neiman Marcus(6)  

14.  
     
   Sawgrass Mills  
     
   FL  
     
   Sunrise (Miami-Ft. Lauderdale)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

98.5  
  %  

2,252,117  
     
   American Signature Home, Beall's Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Brandsmart USA, Burlington Coat Factory, Gameworks, JCPenney Outlet Store, Marshalls, Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center, Nike Factory Store,
Nordstrom Rack, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Ron Jon Surf Shop, The Sports Authority, Super Target, T.J. Maxx, VF Factory Outlet, Wannado City, FYE, Off Broadway Shoes, Regal Cinema, GAP Outlet, Books-A-Million  

15.  
     
   St. Louis Mills  
     
   MO  
     
   Hazelwood (St. Louis)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (2)  
   Acquired 2007  

81.1  
  %  

1,191,207  
     
   Bed Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Cabela's, iceZONE, Marshalls MegaStore, NASCAR SpeedPark, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Sears Appliance Outlet, The Children's Place Outlet, Regal
Cinema  

16.  
     
   The Block at Orange  
     
   CA  
     
   Orange (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

96.8  
  %  

717,692  
     
   Dave   Buster's, Vans Skatepark, Lucky Strike Lanes, Borders Books   Music, Hilo Hattie, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, AMC Theatres, Nike Factory Store, Last Call Neiman Marcus  

Subtotal The Mills    

22,803,081   

31  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

32  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

33  

Table of Contents   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    This
property is managed by a third party.
      (2)    The
Operating Partnership's direct and indirect interests in some of the properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on
distributions in favor of other partners or the Operating Partnership.
      (3)    The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground
leases, we have a right of first refusal or the right to purchase the lessor's interest. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at least 50% of its respective
property.
      (4)    Joint
venture properties accounted for under the equity method.
      (5)    Regional
Malls Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall stores, excluding majors. Premium Outlet Centers Executed leases
for all company-owned GLA (or total center GLA). Community/Lifestyle Centers Executed leases for all company-owned GLA including majors and mall stores.
      (6)    Indicates
anchor or major that is currently under development.
      (7)    Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this property.
      (8)    Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).
      (9)    The
lease at the Mall at Chestnut Hill includes the entire premises including land and building.
      (10)    Indicates
ground lease covers all of the property except for parcels owned in fee by anchors.
      (11)    Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.
      (12)    The
Operating Partnership receives substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.
      (13)    Outside
partner receives substantially all of the economic benefit due to a partner preference.
      (14)    The
Operating Partnership owns a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles it to 100% of the economics of this property.
      (15)    The
Operating Partnership's indirect ownership interest is through an approximately 76% ownership interest in Kravco Simon Investments.
      (16)    Indicates
anchor has announced its intent to close this location.
      (17)    Indicates
anchor has closed, but the Operating Partnership still collects rents and/or fees under an agreement.
      (18)    Mall  
Freestanding GLA includes office space as follows:    

(19)    Nordstrom
to open stores in locations previously operated by others at South Shore Plaza (2009) and Northshore Mall (2009).
      (20)    Vacant
anchor store owned by another company.    
  34  

Table of Contents    

   International Properties     

              Our ownership interests in entities that operate properties outside the United States are primarily owned through joint venture
arrangements. However, during 2008, we acquired shares of stock of Liberty International, PLC, or Liberty, as further described below.   

European Investments      

The following summarizes our joint venture investments in Europe and the underlying countries in which these joint ventures own and
operate real estate properties as of December 31, 2008:   

Joint Venture Investment

Ownership 
Interest    
     
   Properties 
open and 
operating    
     
   Countries of 
Operation    

Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI  

49.0  
  %  
     
  45  
     
  Italy  

Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe  

50.0  
  %  
     
  7  
     
  France, Poland  

In addition, we jointly hold with a third party an interest in one parcel of land for development near Paris, France outside of these two joint
ventures. Simon Ivanhoe and GCI are fully integrated European retail real estate developers, owners and managers.   

              Our
properties in Europe consist primarily of hypermarket-anchored shopping centers. Substantially all of our European properties are anchored by either the hypermarket retailer Auchan,
primarily in Italy, who is also our partner in GCI, or are anchored by the hypermarket Carrefour in France and Poland. Certain of the properties in Italy are subject to leaseholds whereby GCI leases
all or a portion of the premises from a third party who is entitled to receive substantially all the economic benefits of that portion of the properties. Auchan and Carrefour are the two largest
hypermarket operators in Europe.   

Other International Investments      

We also hold real estate interests in seven joint venture properties in Japan, one property in Mexico, one property in Korea, and one
property in China. The seven Japanese Premium Outlet Centers operate in various cities throughout Japan and are held in a joint venture with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. and Sojitz
Corporation (formerly known as Nissho Iwai Corporation). These centers comprise over 2.0 million square feet of GLA and were 99.9% leased as of December 31, 2008. They contain 854 stores
with approximately 380 different tenants. The Premium Outlet Center in Mexico was 92% leased as of December 31, 2008, and the Premium Outlet Center in Korea was 100% leased as of
December 31, 2008. The center in Changshu, China was 98% occupied as of December 31, 2008.   

              The
following summarizes these nine Premium Outlet Centers in international joint ventures:   

Joint Venture Investment Holdings

Ownership Interest    

Gotemba Premium Outlets   Gotemba City (Tokyo), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets   Hyougo-Ken (Osaka), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Rinku Premium Outlets   Izumisano (Osaka), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Sano Premium Outlets   Sano (Tokyo), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets   Izumi Park Town (Sendai), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Toki Premium Outlets   Toki (Nagoya), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Tosu Premium Outlets   Fukuoka (Kyushu), Japan  

40.0  
  %  

Premium Outlets Punta Norte   Mexico City, Mexico  

50.0  
  %  

Yeoju Premium Outlets   Seoul, South Korea  

50.0  
  %  

In 2008, we completed construction on Sendai Izumi Premium Outlets, a 164,000 square foot center located in Sendai, Japan. We have a 40% interest
in this property consistent with the ownership structure of our other Japanese investments. Also, through joint venture arrangements, we have a 32.5% interest in four shopping centers in China, one of
which is open and three that are under construction, aggregating 2.0 million square feet of GLA.   

  35  

Table of Contents   

              Liberty
operates regional shopping centers and is the owner of other prime retail assets throughout the U.K. Liberty is a U.K. FTSE 100 listed company, with shareholders' funds
of  4.7 billion and property investments of  8.6 billion, of which its U.K. regional shopping centers comprise 75%. Assets of the group under control or joint
control amount to  11.0 billion. Liberty converted into a U.K. Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) on January 1, 2007. Our interest in Liberty is less than 5% of their shares
and is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our properties located in Europe, Japan, Mexico, Korea, and China at December 31, 2008.   

  36  

Table of Contents    

   Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Property Table     

37  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Property Table     

38  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Property Table     

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.      (2)    This
property is held partially in fee and partially encumbered by a leasehold on the premise which entitles the lessor to the majority of the economics of
the portion of the property subject to the leasehold.      (3)    These
properties are encumbered by a leasehold on the entire premises which entitles the lessor the majority of the economics of the property.     (4)    Represents
the sales area of the anchor and excludes any warehouse/storage areas.      (5)    On
April 4, 2007, Gallerie Commerciali Italia (the Italian joint venture in which the Company owns a 49% interest) acquired the remaining 60%
interest in the shopping gallery at this center, which consists of 177,600 square feet of leasable area. The Company owns a 19.6% interest in the retail parks at this center, which consist of 446,900
square feet of leasable area.    

39  

Table of Contents    

Land Held for Development      

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in four parcels of land held in the United States for future development, containing an
aggregate of approximately 365 acres located in two states.   

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency      

Due to the size of our portfolio, we focus on energy efficiency as a core sustainability strategy. Through the continued use of energy
conservation practices, energy efficiency projects, and continuous monitoring and reporting, we have reduced our energy consumption at comparable properties every year since 2003. As a result,
excluding new developments and expansions, we reduced the electricity usage over which we
have direct control by 193 million kWhs since 2003. This represents a 14.6% percent reduction in electricity usage across a portfolio of comparable properties and reflects an annual value of
over $20 million in avoided operating costs. Our documented reduction in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our energy management efforts is 109,781 metric tons CO2e between 2003 and 2007.   

              We
were awarded    NAREIT's Leader in the Light Award    for the fourth year in a row and named 2008    "Energy Partner of
the Year   " by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). We were the first real estate company in the S P 500 and the first retail property REIT to
win the EPA award. We were also identified as    "Industry Leader in Carbon Disclosure"    by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), based on the company's high
score on the CDP's Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) after we measured and publicly disclosed our Carbon Footprint.   

Mortgage Financing on Properties      

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and other indebtedness encumbering our properties, and the
properties held by our domestic and international joint venture arrangements, and also our unsecured corporate debt. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to us.   

  40  

Table of Contents    

Mortgage and Other Indebtedness       As of December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

41  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Other Indebtedness      As of December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)    

42  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Other Indebtedness      As of December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)    

43  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Other Indebtedness      As of December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)    

44  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Other Indebtedness      As of December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)    

45  

Table of Contents   

Mortgage and Other Indebtedness      As of December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)    

(Footnotes on following page)     

  46  

Table of Contents   

   (Footnotes for preceding pages)   

(1)    Variable
rate loans based on LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 56 bps to 296 bps. LIBOR as of December 31, 2008 was 0.44%.
      (2)    Requires
monthly payment of interest only.
      (3)    Includes
applicable extension available at the Operating Partnership's option.
      (4)    Loans
secured by these eleven properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (5)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 0.75%. Debt consists of a Euros 71.1 million tranche with
Euros 26.9 million is drawn.
      (6)    Loans
secured by these eleven properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (7)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (8)    As
of December 31, 2008, the loan is set at LIBOR + 1.850%, with LIBOR capped at 8.250%. Effective 1/2/09, we have executed a swap
agreement that fixes the interest rate on this loan at 4.19%.
      (9)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (10)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized.
      (11)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 1.20%. Debt consists of a Euros 12 million tranche which
Euros 11.4 million is drawn.
      (12)    Variable
rate loans based on Yen LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 35 bps to 187.5 bps. Yen LIBOR as of December 31, 2008 was 0.6913%.
      (13)    Lender
also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a specified base. This threshold was met and additional interest was paid in 2008.
      (14)    Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.
      (15)    $3,500,000
Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2008, the Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR + 0.375% and provides for different
pricing based upon the Operating Partnership's investment grade rating. As of December 31, 2008, $2.4 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letter of credits.
      (16)    Debt
is denominated in Chinese Yuan Renuinbi and bears interest at 110% of the People's Republic of China (PBOC) rate. Debt consists of a CNY
290 million tranche which CNY 290 million is drawn.
      (17)    Loans
secured by these five properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (18)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 1.05%. Debt consists of a Euros 258.5 million tranche of
which Euros 238.3 million is drawn.
      (19)    Our
share of consolidated indebtedness was $17,766,316.
      (20)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (21)    LIBOR + 0.750%,
with LIBOR capped at 7.500%.
      (22)    LIBOR + 0.650%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.500%.
      (23)    Our
share of joint venture indebtedness was $6,632,419.
      (24)    Debt
is denominated in Chinese Yuan Renuinbi and bears interest at 110% of the People's Republic of China (PBOC) rate. Debt consists of a CNY
250 million tranche which CNY 250 million is drawn.
      (25)    The
maturity date shown represents the Anticipated Maturity Date of the loan which is typically 10-20 years earlier than the stated
Maturity Date of the loan. Should the loan not be repaid at the Anticipated Repayment Date the applicable interest rate shall increase as specified in the loan agreement.
      (26)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Yen equivalent 32,908.8 million
      (27)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 1.15%. Debt consists of a Euros 255 million tranche which
Euros 235.9 million is drawn.
      (28)    Debt
is denominated in Chinese Yuan Renuinbi and bears interest at 115% of the People's Republic of China (PBOC) rate. Debt consists of a CNY
500 million tranche which CNY 500 million is drawn.
      (29)    LIBOR + 0.900%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.250%.
      (30)    LIBOR + 0.750%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.250%.    
  47  

Table of Contents   

(31)    Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements with a total combined Euro 319.0 million notional amount that effectively fixed
these loans at a combined 4.77%.
      (32)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 0.75%. Debt consists of a Euros 130 million tranche which
Euros 128.9 million is drawn.
      (33)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 0.80%. Debt consists of a Euros 28 million tranche which
Euros 27.0 million is drawn.
      (34)    Debt
is denominated in Euros and bears interest at 3 month Euribor + 0.80%. Debt consists of a Euros 27 million tranche which
Euros 26.2 million is drawn.
      (35)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (36)    LIBOR + 0.560%,
with LIBOR capped at 7.00%.
      (37)    LIBOR + 1.950%,
with LIBOR capped at 6.00%.
      (38)    Variable
rate loans based on LIBOR + 1.975%. An interest rate swap agreement effectively fixes the interest rate of the loans at 5.39%.
      (39)    Debt
is denominated in Chinese Yuan Renuinbi and bears interest at 110% of the People's Republic of China (PBOC) rate. Debt consists of a CNY
310 million tranche which CNY 310 million is drawn.
      (40)    Loan
is secured by The Domain Shopping Center, Palms Crossing, and Shops at Arbor Walk and is cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (41)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Yen 22,125.0 million.
      (42)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Euro 143.5 million.
      (43)    As
of December 31, 2008, this loan is set at LIBOR plus 1.95%. Effective 1/2/09 we have executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on
$200 million of this loan at 4.35%.    

  The
changes in mortgages and other indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006 are as follows:   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings            

                 As previously disclosed, for several years we have been defending actions brought
by the Attorneys General of Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Connecticut in their respective state courts and similar litigation brought by other parties alleging that the sale of
co-branded, bank-issued gift cards by our affiliate, SPGGC, Inc., at certain of our properties, violated state gift certificate and consumer protection laws. We
previously reported the dismissal of the New Hampshire litigation. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the complaint in the Massachusetts litigation was dismissed and we settled the Connecticut
litigation. The only remaining legal proceedings involving gift card sales are two purported class actions brought by private parties in New York. With the resolution of the remaining Attorneys
General's actions in 2008, we no longer believe that the ultimate outcome of these related actions would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows
and, accordingly, we do not expect to report further developments in these actions.   

                 We are also involved in various other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business.
We believe that such litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss
is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.   

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders            

                 None.   

  48  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

Market Information      

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range for the shares and the
distributions declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:   

There
is no established public trading market for Simon Property's Class B common stock. Distributions per share of the Class B common stock are identical to the common
stock.   

Holders      

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 2,092 as of December 31, 2008. The Class B common stock
is held entirely by a voting trust to which Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates are parties and is exchangeable on a one-for-one basis into
shares of common stock.   

Dividends      

We are required to pay a minimum level of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income
generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of
operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be required to maintain our status as a REIT. We paid a common stock dividend of $0.90 per share in cash in the
fourth quarter of 2008.   

              We
offer an Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan that allows stockholders to acquire additional shares by automatically reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the
plan at a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.   

              On
January 30, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.90 per share, to be paid in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock.
While our stockholders will have the right to elect to receive their dividend in either cash or common stock, we have announced that the aggregate cash component of the dividend will not exceed 10% of
the total dividend, or $0.09 per share. If the number of stockholders electing to receive cash would result in our payment of cash in excess of this 10% limitation, we will allocate the cash payment
on a pro rata basis among those stockholders making the cash election. We have reserved the right to elect to pay this dividend all in cash. Our Board of Directors reviews and approves dividends on a
quarterly basis, and no determination has been made about whether our remaining 2009 dividends will be paid in a similar
combination of cash and common stock. Paying all or a portion of the 2009 dividend in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock allows us to satisfy our REIT taxable income distribution
requirement under existing IRS revenue procedures, while enhancing our financial flexibility and balance sheet strength.   

  49  

Table of Contents   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities      

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we issued 339,621 shares of common stock to limited partners in exchange for an equal number of
units. The issuance of the shares of common stock was made pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership and was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of
1933 as amended, in reliance upon Section 4(2).   

Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans      

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this
report.   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      

Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock through July 2009. We may
repurchase shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2008, the program had remaining availability of approximately $950.7 million. There were
no purchases under this program during the fourth quarter of 2008.   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Selected Financial Data section of the 2008 Annual
Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of Simon Property's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of Simon Property's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources   Market Risk," filed as
Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item 15.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

              None.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures            

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
participation of management, including
our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, our management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008.   

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       Our management's report on internal control
over financial reporting is set forth
in our 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.   

  50  

Table of Contents   

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       There was no change in our internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information            

              During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, the Audit Committee of Simon Property Group, Inc.'s Board of
Directors approved certain non-audit tax compliance services to be provided by Ernst   Young, LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This
disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  51  

Table of Contents   

Part III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrants" in Part I hereof.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2009 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

  52  

Table of Contents   

Part IV            

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules            

(1)      Consolidated Financial Statements       

              Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and independent registered public accounting firm's reports are included in
our 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.   

Page No.    

(2)  
     
     Financial Statement Schedule    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III   Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  

57  

Notes to Schedule III  

64  

(3)  
      
      Exhibits    

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item.  

65  

53  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES        

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
   /s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer  

February 26,
2009   

              Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon  
     
   Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   February 26, 2009  

/s/ HERBERT SIMON 

Herbert Simon  
      
    Co-Chairman Emeritus  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ MELVIN SIMON 

Melvin Simon  
      
    Co-Chairman Emeritus  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ RICHARD S. SOKOLOV 

Richard S. Sokolov  
      
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ BIRCH BAYH 

Birch Bayh  
      
    Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN 

Melvyn E. Bergstein  
      
    Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ LINDA WALKER BYNOE 

Linda Walker Bynoe  
      
    Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ PIETER S. VAN DEN BERG 

Pieter S. van den Berg  
      
    Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

54  

Table of Contents   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ 

Reuben S. Leibowitz  
     
   Director  
     
   February 26, 2009  

/s/ J. ALBERT SMITH, JR. 

J. Albert Smith, Jr.  
      
    Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ KAREN N. HORN 

Karen N. Horn  
      
    Director  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
    February 26, 2009  

/s/ JOHN DAHL 

John Dahl  
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting 
Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
    February 26, 2009  

55  

Table of Contents    

Exhibits

2  
     
      Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as February 12, 2007, by and among SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, SPG-FCM Acquisitions, Inc., SPG-FCM
Acquisitions, L.P., The Mills Corporation, and The Mills Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 23, 2007).  

3.1  
     
      Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on October 9, 1998).  

3.2  
     
      Restated By-laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed
July 30, 2008).  

3.3  
     
      Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2004).  

3.4  
     
      Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2004).  

9.1  
     
      Second Amended and Restated Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between Melvin Simon  
Associates, Inc., on the one hand and Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, and David Simon on the other hand (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).  

9.2  
     
      Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between David Simon, Melvin Simon and Herbert Simon
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.2 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).  

10.1  
     
      Eighth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Simon Property Group, L.P. dated as of May 8, 2008 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2008).  

10.2  
     
      $3,500,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2005, among Simon Property Group, L.P., the Institutions named therein as
Lenders and the Institutions named therein as Co-Agents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of Simon Property Group, L.P.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 20, 2005).  

10.3  
     
      Amendment to Credit Agreement among Simon Property Group, L.P., the Institutions named therein as Lenders and the Institutions named
therein as Co-Agents, dated October 4, 2007.  

10.4  
     
      Form of the Indemnity Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the
Registrant's Form S-4 filed August 13, 1998 (Reg. No. 333-61399)).  

10.5  
     
      Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 24, 1998, by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 9, 1998).  

10.6  
     
      Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 27, 1999 by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed March 24, 2004 (Reg. No. 333-113884)).  

10.7  
     
      Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997, by and between O'Connor Retail Partners, L.P. and Simon DeBartolo Group,
 Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 7, 2001 (Reg. No. 333-74722)).  

10.8*  
     
      Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2008).  

10.9*  
     
      Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant's 2004 Form 10-K).  

10.10*  
     
      Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Registrant's 2006 Form 10-K).  

10.11*  
     
      Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Registrant's 2004 Form 10-K).  

10.12*  
     
      Employment Agreement among Richard S. Sokolov, the Registrant, and Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.
dated January 1, 2007.  

10.13*  
     
      Description of Director and Executive Compensation Agreements.  

10.14  
     
      Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007, by and among The Mills Limited Partnership, as Borrower, The Mills
Corporation, as Parent, certain of its subsidiaries, as Guarantors, the lenders party thereto, and Simon Property Group, L.P., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 23, 2007).  

10.15  
     
      Voting Agreement dated as of June 20, 2004 among the Registrant, Simon Property Group, L.P., and certain holders of shares of common
stock of Chelsea Property Group, Inc. and/or common units of CPG Partners, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 22, 2004).  

12.1  
     
      Statement regarding computation of ratios.  

13.1  
     
      Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial Statements of the
Registrant as contained in the Registrant's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

21.1  
     
      List of Subsidiaries of the Company.  

56  

Table of Contents   

*    Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.    
  57  

Table of Contents    

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

58  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

59  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

60  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

61  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

62  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

63  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2008 
(Dollars in thousands)     

64  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2008     

    (Dollars in thousands)     

(1) Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:     

The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows:   

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2008 was $18,390,068.   

    (2) Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:     

The changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 are as follows:   

Depreciation
of our investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the estimated original
lives of the assets as follows:   

Buildings and Improvements   typically 10-40 years for the structure, 15 years
for landscaping and parking lot, and 10 years for HVAC equipment.     
           Tenant Allowances and Improvements   shorter of lease term or useful life.

(3)    Initial
cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties and new developments after December 20,
1993. Initial cost also includes any new developments that are opened during the current year. Costs of disposals of property are first reflected as a reduction to cost capitalized subsequent to
acquisition.
      (4)    Not
developed/constructed by us or our predecessors. The date of construction represents the acquisition date.
      (5)    Property
initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted for under the equity method of
accounting. Accumulated depreciation amounts for properties consolidated which were previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting include the minority interest holders' portion of
accumulated depreciation.
      (6)    Secured
by a $260,000 cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted mortgage loan facility.    
  65  

Exhibit 12.1     

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends   (in thousands)            

For
purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" have been computed by adding fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest, to pre-tax income
from continuing operations including income from minority interests and our share of pre-tax (loss) income from 50%, or greater than 50%, owned unconsolidated entities which have fixed
charges, and including distributed operating income from less than 50% owned unconsolidated joint ventures instead of income from the less than 50% owned unconsolidated joint ventures. There are
generally no restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from our joint ventures where no preference in favor of the other owners of the joint venture exists. "Fixed charges" consist of
interest costs, whether expensed or capitalized, the interest component of rental expenses, preferred distributions, losses on extinguishment of debt, and amortization of debt issue costs.   

  66  

Exhibit 13.1     

              The following tables set forth selected financial data. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other data we believe is important in understanding trends in our business
is also included in the tables.   

Notes   

(1)      On October 14, 2004 we acquired the former Chelsea Property Group, Inc. In the accompanying financial statements,
Note 2 describes the basis of presentation.
         (2)       Represents dividends declared per period.
         (3)       FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides useful information to investors. Please refer to Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a definition and reconciliation of FFO.      
  67  

Table of Contents    

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

              You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto that are included in this Annual Report to
Stockholders.   

   Overview     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, among other things, a company must distribute at least 90 percent of its
taxable income to its stockholders annually. Taxes are paid by stockholders on dividends received and any capital gains distributed. Most states also follow this federal treatment and do not require
REITs to pay state income tax. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties. In this
discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop, and manage retail real estate properties in five retail real estate platforms: regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers , The Mills ,
community/lifestyle centers, and international properties. As of December 31, 2008, we owned or held an interest in 324 income producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 164
regional malls, 70 community/lifestyle centers, 16 additional regional malls and four additional community centers acquired as a result of the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills
acquisition, 40 Premium Outlet Centers, 16 The Mills, and 14 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states plus Puerto Rico. The Mills acquisition is described below in the "Results of
Operations" section. We also own interests in four parcels of land held in the United States for future development. In the United States, we have one new property currently under development
aggregating approximately 400,000 square feet which will
open during 2009. Internationally, we have ownership interests in 52 European shopping centers (located in France, Italy, and Poland); seven Premium Outlet Centers located in Japan, one Premium
Outlet Center located in Mexico, one Premium Outlet Center located in Korea, and one shopping center located in China. Also, through joint venture arrangements we have ownership interests in the
following properties under development internationally: a 24% interest in two shopping centers in Italy, a 40% interest in a Premium Outlet Center in Japan, and a 32.5% interests in three additional
shopping centers under construction in China.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:   

Base minimum rents,     
           Overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and     
           Recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate taxes,
repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
seek growth in earnings, funds from operations, or FFO, and cash flows by enhancing the profitability and operation of our properties and investments. We seek to accomplish this
growth through the following:   

Focusing on leasing to increase revenues and utilization of economies of scale to reduce operating expenses,    
           Expanding and re-tenanting existing franchise locations at competitive market rates,    
           Adding mixed-use elements to properties,     
           Selectively acquiring high quality real estate assets or portfolios of assets, and     
           Selling non-core assets.    

We
also grow by generating supplemental revenues from the following activities:   

Establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (including handling fees relating to the sales of    
 
  68  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

bank-issued
prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,    

Offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
sale of energy,     
           Selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    

We
focus on high quality real estate across the retail real estate spectrum. We expand or renovate to enhance existing assets' profitability and market share when we believe the
investment of our capital meets our risk-reward criteria. We selectively develop new properties in major metropolitan areas that exhibit strong population and economic growth.   

We
routinely review and evaluate acquisition opportunities based on their ability to complement our portfolio. Lastly, we are selectively expanding our international presence. Our
international strategy includes partnering with
established real estate companies and financing international investments with local currency to minimize foreign exchange risk.   

              To
support our growth, we employ a three-fold capital strategy:   

Provide the capital necessary to fund growth,     
           Maintain sufficient flexibility to access capital in many forms, both public and private, and     
           Manage our overall financial structure in a fashion that preserves our investment grade credit ratings.    

Results Overview     

              Diluted earnings per common share decreased $0.08 during 2008, or 4.1%, to $1.87 from $1.95 for 2007. The decrease is primarily due to
the $20.3 million loss relating to the redemption of remarketable debt securities, and $21.2 million in impairment charges in 2008, as compared to net gains aggregating
$9.0 million related to sales and disposition activity and impairment charges for the comparable period in 2007. Consolidated total revenues increased $132.4 million, or 3.6%, driven by
the full year effect of our 2007 openings and expansion activities and the releasing of space at higher rental rates per square foot, or psf. Releasing spreads in the regional mall and Premium Outlet
portfolios were strong at $8.02 psf (or 21.3%) and $12.48 psf (or 48.8%), respectively, due to continued demand for higher quality space in our portfolio. Total operating expenses increased
$106.5 million, or 5.0%, due to additional depreciation provisions related to the full year of operations for 2007 openings and 2008 new openings, an increase in the provision for bad debts due
to the estimated uncollectability of certain tenant receivables, and higher personnel and utility costs attributable to normal inflationary increases. Interest costs remained relatively flat despite
an increase in total debt due to lowered variable borrowing costs as a result of a reduced one-month LIBOR rate, the benchmark rate for most of our floating rate debt.   

              In
the United States, business fundamentals were relatively stable, except for tenant sales psf which were mixed across the portfolio, and were dependent upon asset type, geographic
location, and mix of specialty and luxury tenants. Average base rents for the regional mall and domestic Premium Outlet portfolios were relatively stable for 2008. The regional malls average base rent
ended the year at $39.49 psf, or an increase of 6.5% over 2007. The domestic Premium Outlets average base rent ended the year at $27.65 psf, or an increase of 7.7%. The stability of the occupancy,
rent psf, and releasing rental spread fundamentals contributed to our ability to generate growth in
our operating results despite the adverse effects the general economic pressures are creating for our tenants and the consumer.   

              Internationally,
in 2008, we and our joint venture partners opened three additional centers (one each in Italy, China, and Japan) and expanded two existing Premium Outlet Centers which
added an aggregate 1 million square feet of retail space to the international portfolio. Also during 2008, we acquired shares of stock of Liberty International, PLC, or Liberty. Liberty
operates regional shopping centers and is the owner of other prime retail assets throughout the U.K. Liberty is a U.K. FTSE 100 listed company, with shareholders' funds of
 4.7 billion and property investments of  8.6 billion, of which its U.K. regional shopping centers comprise 75%. Assets of the group under   

  69  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

control
or joint control amount to  11.0 billion. Liberty converted into a U.K. Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) on January 1, 2007. Our interest in Liberty is less than
5% of their shares and is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component.   

              Our
effective overall borrowing rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, decreased 55 basis points to 5.12% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007. This was a
result of a significant decrease in the base LIBOR rate applicable to a majority of our floating rate debt (0.44% at December 31, 2008, versus 4.60% at December 31, 2007) and also the
issuance of new unsecured and secured debt at favorable rates. Our financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008, included:   

decreasing borrowings on the Operating Partnership's $3.5 billion unsecured credit facility, or Credit Facility, to
approximately $1.0 billion during the year ended December 31, 2008. The amount outstanding includes $446.3 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) in Euro and Yen-denominated
borrowings.     
           borrowing $735 million on a term loan that matures March 5, 2012 and bears a rate of LIBOR plus 70 basis
points. This loan is secured by the cash flow distributed from six properties and has additional availability of $115 million through the maturity date.     
           issuing two tranches of senior unsecured notes in May totaling $1.5 billion at a weighed average fixed interest rate
of 5.74%. We used the proceeds of the offering to reduce borrowings on the Credit Facility and for general working capital purposes.     
           redeeming the $200.0 million in remarkable debt securities that bore interest at 7.00%, and, as discussed above,
resulted in our recognizing a $20.3 million loss in the second quarter related to this extinguishment of debt.     
           redeeming a $150.0 million unsecured note that bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.38%.     
           borrowing $190.0 million on a loan secured by Philadelphia Premium Outlets, which matures on July 30, 2014
and bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 185 basis points. On January 2, 2009, we executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate of this loan at 4.19%. We used the proceeds
of the borrowing for general working capital purposes.     
           borrowing $260 million on a term loan that matures September 23, 2013 and bears interest at a variable rate
of LIBOR plus 195 basis points. On January 2, 2009, we executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate of this loan at 4.35%. This is a cross-collateralized loan that is secured by The
Domain, Shops at Arbor Walk, and Palms Crossing. We used the proceeds of the borrowing for general working capital purposes.    
 
  70  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

United States Portfolio Data     

              The portfolio data discussed in this overview includes the following key operating statistics: occupancy; average base rent per square
foot; and comparable sales per square foot for our four domestic platforms. We include acquired properties in this data beginning in the year of acquisition and remove properties sold in the year
disposed. We are separately reporting in this section the 16 regional malls we acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition. We do not include any properties
located outside of the United States in this section. The following table sets forth these key operating statistics for:   

properties that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements,     
           properties we account for under the equity method of accounting as joint ventures, and     
           the foregoing two categories of properties on a total portfolio basis.    

(1)    Percentages
may not recalculate due to rounding.    
  71  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

                 Occupancy Levels and Average Base Rent Per Square Foot.        Occupancy and average base rent are based on
mall and freestanding Gross Leasable Area, or
GLA, owned by us in the regional malls, and all tenants at The Mills, Premium Outlet Centers, and community/lifestyle centers. Our portfolio has maintained relatively stable occupancy and increased
the aggregate average base rents despite the current economic climate.   

                 Comparable Sales Per Square Foot.        Comparable sales include total reported retail tenant sales at owned
GLA (for mall and freestanding stores with
less than 10,000 square feet) in the regional malls, and all reporting tenants at The Mills and the Premium Outlet Centers and community/lifestyle centers. Retail sales at owned GLA affect revenue and
profitability levels because sales determine the amount of minimum rent that can be charged, the percentage rent realized, and the recoverable expenses (common area maintenance, real estate taxes,
etc.) that tenants can afford to pay.   

    International Property Data     

              The following are selected key operating statistics for certain of our international properties.   

(1)    Does
not include one center in Mexico (Premium Outlets Punta Norte), one center in Korea (Yeoju Premium Outlets), and one shopping center in China.    

    Critical Accounting Policies     

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or
GAAP, requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various
transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we
evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current information.
Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.
For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account
for our leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to
pay overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed its sales threshold.     
           We review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in cash flows, occupancy and
comparable sales per square foot at the property. We recognize an impairment of investment property when the estimated    
 
  72  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

undiscounted
operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income
the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their
carrying values.    

To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income in any given year and meet certain
asset and income tests. We monitor our business and transactions that may potentially impact our REIT status. In the unlikely event that we fail to maintain our REIT status, and available relief
provisions do not apply, then we would be required to pay federal income taxes at regular corporate income tax rates during the period we did not qualify as a REIT. If we lost our REIT status, we
could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were met. As a result, failing to maintain REIT status would result in
a significant increase in the income tax expense recorded during those periods.     
           We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the relative value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings
as-if-vacant, land and market value of in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our
estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the
market value of in-place leases, we make our best estimates of the tenants' ability to pay rents based upon the tenants' operating performance at the property, including the competitive
position of the property in its market as well as sales psf, rents psf, and overall occupancy cost for the tenants in place at the acquisition date. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue
that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases.     
           A variety of costs are incurred in the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to
capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease
involves a degree of judgment. Our capitalization policy on development properties is guided by SFAS No. 34 "Capitalization of Interest Cost" and SFAS No. 67 "Accounting for Costs and
the Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Properties." The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include
pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs
incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon opening.    

Results of Operations     

              In addition to the activity discussed above in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, property openings, and other activity affected our
consolidated results from continuing operations in the comparative periods:   

On December 31, 2008, we acquired an additional 5% interest in Gateway Shopping Center.     
           On November 13, 2008, we opened Jersey Shore Premium Outlets, a 435,000 square foot outlet center with 120 designer
and name-brand outlet stores located in Tinton Falls, New Jersey.     
           On November 6, 2008, we opened the second phase of Orlando Premium Outlets, a 114,000 square foot expansion that is
100% leased and adds 40 new merchants, located in Orlando, Florida.     
           On September 12, 2008, we acquired an additional 3.2% interest in White Oaks Mall.     
           On May 1, 2008, we opened Pier Park, a 900,000 square foot, open-air retail center located in Panama
City, Florida.    
 
  73  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

On March 27, 2008, we opened Houston Premium Outlets, a 427,000 square foot outlet center located approximately 30
miles west of Houston in Cypress, Texas.     
           On January 1, 2008 we acquired an additional 1.8% interest in Oxford Valley Mall and Lincoln Plaza.    
           On November 15, 2007, we opened Palms Crossing, a 396,000 square foot community center, located adjacent to the new
McAllen Convention Center in McAllen, Texas.     
           On November 8, 2007, we opened Philadelphia Premium Outlets, a 425,000 square foot outlet center located 35 miles
northwest of Philadelphia in Limerick, Pennsylvania.     
           On November 1, 2007, we acquired an additional 6.5% interest in Montgomery Mall.     
           On August 23, 2007, we acquired Las Americas Premium Outlets, a 560,000 square foot upscale outlet center located in
San Diego, California, for $283.5 million, including the assumption of its $180.0 million mortgage.     
           On July 13, 2007, we acquired an additional 1% interest in Bangor Mall.     
           On March 29, 2007, we acquired an additional 25% interest in two regional malls (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett
Place) in the Mills acquisition and now consolidate those properties.     
           On March 28, 2007, we acquired a 100% interest in The Maine Outlet, a 112,000 square foot outlet center located in
Kittery, Maine for a purchase price of $45.2 million.     
           On March 9, 2007, we opened The Domain, in Austin, Texas, which combines 700,000 square feet of luxury fashion and
restaurant space, 75,000 square feet of Class A office space and 390 apartments.     
           On March 1, 2007, we acquired the remaining 40% interest in University Park Mall and University Center. We had
previously consolidated these properties, but now have no provision for minority interest in our consolidated income from continuing operations since March 1, 2007.     
           On December 1, 2006, we opened Shops at Arbor Walk, a 230,841 square foot community center located in Austin, Texas.    
           On November 2, 2006, we opened Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets, a 404,000 square foot upscale outlet center in
Mercedes, Texas, 20 miles east of McAllen, Texas, and 10 miles from the Mexico border.     
           On November 2, 2006, we received capital transaction proceeds of $102.2 million related to the beneficial
interests in a mall that the Simon family contributed to us in 2006. This transaction terminated our beneficial interests and resulted in the recognition of an $86.5 million gain.    
           On November 1, 2006, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Mall of Georgia from our partner for
$252.6 million which includes the assumption of our $96.0 million share of debt, and as a result consolidated the property.     
           On August 4, 2006, we opened Round Rock Premium Outlets, a 432,000 square foot Premium Outlet Center located 20
minutes North of Austin, Texas in Round Rock, Texas.    

In
addition to the activities discussed above and in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and property openings affected our income from unconsolidated entities
in the comparative periods:   

On December 30, 2008, Cincinnati Mills, one of the properties we acquired in the Mills acquisition, was sold. We
held a 50% interest the shopping center.     
           On October 16, 2008, Chelsea Japan Company, Ltd., or Chelsea Japan, the joint venture which operates the
Japanese Premium Outlet Centers in which we have a 40% ownership interest, opened Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets. The 172,000 square foot first phase of the project opened fully leased to 80 tenants,
and is located in Izumi Park Town serving the Sendai market of northern Honshu Island.     
           On August 25, 2008, Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI, one of our two European joint ventures, opened Monza, a
211,600 square foot shopping center in Monza, Italy.    
 
  74  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

On June 5, 2008, Great Mall Investments, Ltd., or GMI, the joint venture which operates the hypermarket
centers located in China in which we have a 32.5% ownership interest, opened Changshu IN CITY Plaza, a 487,000 square foot retail center located in Changshu, China. The center is anchored by
Wal-Mart and has approximately 140 other retail shops.     
           On May 2, 2008, we and our partner opened Hamilton Town Center, a 950,000 square foot open-air retail
center in Noblesville, Indiana. We hold a 50% interest in this center.     
           On December 6, 2007, GCI opened Nola, a 876,000 square foot shopping center in Naples, Italy.    
           On October 17, 2007, we acquired an 18.75% interest in Denver West Village in Lakewood, Colorado through our 50%
ownership in SPG-FCM.     
           On September 27, 2007, GCI opened Cinisello, located in Milan, Italy.     
           On July 5, 2007, Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l, or Simon Ivanhoe, our other European joint venture, sold its
interest in five assets located in Poland, for which we recorded our share of the gain of $90.6 million.     
           On July 5, 2007, Chelsea Japan opened the 195,000 square foot first phase of Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets,
located just north of downtown Kobe, Japan.     
           On June 1, 2007, Chelsea Japan opened Yeoju Premium Outlets, a 250,000 square foot center in Korea.    
           On February 16, 2007, SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, an entity in which a
subsidiary of the Operating Partnership holds a 50% interest, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire The Mills Corporation, or Mills. The Mills acquisition added 36 properties and over
42 million square feet of gross leasable area to our portfolio. The properties are generally located in major metropolitan areas and consist of a combination of traditional anchor tenants,
local and national retailers, and a number of larger "big box" tenants. We made an equity investment of $650.0 million and provided loans to SPG-FCM and Mills in various amounts
throughout 2007 to acquire Mills' remaining common and preferred equity, and to pay various costs of the transaction. We serve as manager of the properties acquired in this transaction, which is more
fully discussed in the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section.     
           On November 10, 2006 we and our partner opened Coconut Point, in Bonita Springs, Florida, a 1.2 million
square foot, open-air shopping center complex with village, lakefront and community center areas.     
           On October 26, 2006, Simon Ivanhoe opened the 200,000 square foot expansion of a shopping center in Wasquehal,
France.     
           On October 14, 2006 Chelsea Japan opened a 53,000 square foot expansion of Toki Premium Outlets.    
           On September 28, 2006, Simon Ivanhoe opened Gliwice Shopping Center, a 380,000 square foot shopping center in
Gliwice, Poland.     
           On May 31, 2006, GCI opened Giugliano, an 800,000 square foot center anchored by a hypermarket, in Italy.    

For
the purposes of the following comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the above transactions are
referred to as the property transactions. In the following discussions of our results of operations, "comparable" refers to properties open and operating throughout both the current and prior year.   

In
2008 we had no consolidated property dispositions. During 2007, we disposed of five consolidated properties that had an aggregate book value of $91.6 million for aggregate
sales proceeds of $56.4 million, resulting in a net loss on sale of $35.2 million, or $28.0 million net of limited partners' interest. The loss on sale of these assets has been
reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. The operating results of the properties that we sold or disposed during 2007 were not significant to our consolidated
results of operations. The   

  75  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

  following
is a list of consolidated property dispositions and the date of disposition for which we have reported the operations or results of sale with discontinued operations:   

We
sold the following properties in 2006. Due to the limited significance of these properties' operations and result of disposition on our consolidated financial statements, we did not
report these properties as discontinued operations.   

Year Ended December 31, 2008 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2007      

              Minimum rents increased $137.2 million in 2008, of which the property transactions accounted for $64.6 million of the
increase. Comparable rents increased $72.6 million, or 3.6%. This was primarily due to an increase in minimum rents of $82.1 million and an $8.5 million increase in
straight-line rents, offset by a $16.4 million decrease in comparable property activity, primarily attributable to lower amounts of fair market value of in-place lease
amortization.   

              Overage
rents decreased $9.8 million or 8.9%, as a result of a reduction in tenant sales for the period as compared to the prior year.   

              Tenant
reimbursements increased $42.8 million, due to a $26.9 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $15.9 million, or 1.6%, increase in
the comparable properties due to our ongoing initiative to convert leases to a fixed reimbursement methodology for common area maintenance costs.   

              Management
fees and other revenues increased $18.7 million principally as a result of the full year of additional management fees derived from managing the properties acquired in
the Mills acquisition, and additional leasing and development fees as a result of incremental joint venture property activity.   

              Total
other income decreased $56.6 million, and was principally the result of the following:   

a $26.7 million decrease in interest income primarily due to the repayment of loans made to SPG-FCM and
Mills, and lower interest rates attributable to this loan facility, combined with decreased interest earnings on investments due to lower excess cash balances and interest rates earned in 2008 as
compared to 2007,     
           an $18.7 million decrease in lease settlement income as a result of significant lease settlements received from two
department stores in 2007, and     
           a $14.3 million decrease in loan financing fees related to Mills-related loan activity during 2007 which did not
recur in 2008.    

These
decreases were offset by a $3.1 million increase in net other activity.   

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $63.8 million in 2008 primarily due to our acquisition, expansion and renovation activity and the accelerated depreciation of
tenant improvements for tenant leases terminated during the period and for properties scheduled for redevelopment.   

  76  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              Real
estate taxes increased $21.3 million from the prior period, $9.0 million of which is related to the property transactions, and $12.3 million from our
comparable properties due to the effect of increases resulting from reassessments, higher tax rates, and the effect of expansion and renovation activities.   

Repairs
and maintenance decreased $12.3 million due to our cost savings efforts.   

              Provision
for credit losses increased $14.5 million primarily due to an increase in tenant bankruptcies and tenant delinquencies. This was reflected in total square footage lost
to tenant bankruptcies of 1,104,000 during 2008 as compared to only 69,000 square feet in 2007. We anticipate a challenging environment for our tenants continuing into 2009.   

              Home
and regional office expense increased $8.3 million primarily due to increased personnel costs, primarily the result of the Mills acquisition, and the increased expense from
certain incentive compensation plans.   

              Other
expenses increased $5.8 million due to increased consulting and professional fees, including legal fees and related costs.   

              Interest
expense increased $1.3 million despite an $823.9 million increase in consolidated borrowings to fund our development and redevelopment activities, and the full
year impact of our borrowings to fund the Mills-related loans, due to a 55 basis point decline in our weighted average borrowing rates. This decrease in weighted average borrowing rates was driven
primarily by a decline in the applicable LIBOR rate for a majority of our consolidated floating rate debt instruments, including the Credit Facility.   

We
recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $20.3 million in the second quarter of 2008 related to the redemption of $200 million in remarketable debt securities. We
extinguished the debt because the remarketing reset base rate was above the rate for 30-year U.S. Treasury securities at the date of redemption.   

              Income
tax expense of taxable REIT subsidiaries increased $14.9 million due primarily to a $19.5 million tax benefit recognized in 2007 related to the impairment charge
resulting from of the write-off of our investment in a land joint venture in Phoenix, Arizona.   

Income
from unconsolidated entities decreased $5.9 million, due primarily to the impact of the Mills acquisition (net of eliminations). On a net basis, our share of loss from
SPG-FCM increased $4.7 million from the prior period due to a full year of SPG-FCM activity in 2008 as compared to only nine months of activity in 2007. The loss was
driven by depreciation and amortization expense on asset basis step-ups in purchase accounting.   

              In
2008, we recognized an impairment of $21.2 million primarily representing the write-down of a mall property to its estimated net realizable value and the
write-off of predevelopment costs for various development opportunities that we no longer plan to pursue. In 2007, we recognized an impairment of $55.1 million related to a land
joint venture in Phoenix, Arizona.   

              The
gain on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities of $92.0 million in 2007 was primarily the result of Simon Ivanhoe selling its interest in certain assets
located in Poland.   

              Preferred
distributions of the Operating Partnership decreased $4.0 million as a result of the conversion or exchange of 1.5 million Series I preferred units to
common units or Series I preferred shares.   

              In
2007, the loss on sale of discontinued operations of $28.0 million, net of the limited partners' interest, represents the net loss upon disposition of five
non-core properties consisting of three regional malls and two community/lifestyle centers.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $14.0 million as a result of the conversion of 6.4 million Series I preferred shares into common shares and the redemption of the
Series G preferred stock in the fourth quarter of 2007.   

     Year Ended December 31, 2007 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2006      

Minimum rents increased $133.9 million in 2007, of which the property transactions accounted for $87.0 million of the
increase. Total amortization of the fair market value of in-place leases served to decrease minimum rents by   

  77  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

$8.8 million
due to certain in-place lease adjustments becoming fully amortized. Comparable rents increased $46.8 million, or 2.3%. This was primarily due to the leasing of
space at higher rents that resulted in an increase in minimum rents of $54.6 million offset by a $9.2 million decrease in comparable property straight-line rents and fair
market value of in-place lease amortization. In addition, rents from carts, kiosks, and other temporary tenants increased comparable rents by $1.4 million.   

              Overage
rents increased $14.2 million or 14.9%, reflecting increases in tenant sales.   

Tenant
reimbursements increased $76.6 million, of which the property transactions accounted for $40.2 million. The remainder of the increase of $36.4 million, or
3.8%, was in comparable properties and was due to inflationary increases in property operating costs and our ongoing initiative of converting our leases to a fixed reimbursement methodology for common
area maintenance costs.   

              Management
fees and other income increased $31.5 million principally as a result of additional management fees derived from the additional properties being managed from the Mills
acquisition and additional leasing and development fees as a result of incremental property activity.   

              Total
other income increased $62.5 million, and was principally the result of the following:   

a $46.4 million increase in interest income, of which $39.1 million is as a result of Mills-related loans,
combined with increased interest rates on the investment of excess cash balances,     
           an $18.4 million increase in lease settlement income as a result of settlements received from two department stores
in 2007,     
           a $17.4 million increase in loan financing fees, net of intercompany eliminations, related to Mills-related loan
refinancing activity, offset by     
           a $19.7 million decrease in gains on land sale activity.    

Property
operating expenses increased $13.3 million, or 3.0%, primarily as a result of the property transactions and inflationary increases.   

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $49.4 million and is primarily a result of the property transactions.   

              Real
estate taxes increased $13.1 million from the prior period, $10.4 million of which is related to the property transactions, and $2.7 million from our
comparable properties due to the effect of increases resulting from reassessments, higher tax rates, and the effect of expansion and renovation activities.   

              Repairs
and maintenance increased $14.2 million due to increased snow removal costs in 2007 over that of 2006, normal inflationary increases, and the effect of the property
transactions.   

              Advertising
and promotion increased $5.9 million primarily due to the effect of the property transactions.   

              Home
and Regional office expense increased $7.3 million primarily due to increased personnel costs, primarily the result of the Mills acquisition, and the effect of incentive
compensation plans.   

              General
and administrative expenses increased $2.9 million due to increased executive salaries, principally as a result of additional share-based payment amortization from the
vesting of restricted stock grants.   

              Interest
expense increased $124.0 million due principally to the following:   

increased borrowings to fund our development and redevelopment activities;     
           additional borrowings to fund the Mills-related loans; and     
           the full year effect of May, August, and December 2006 senior note offerings.    
 
  78  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Also
impacting interest expense was the consolidation of Town Center at Cobb, Gwinnett Place, and Mall of Georgia as a result of our acquisition of additional ownership interests, and
the assumption of debt related to the acquisition of Las Americas Premium Outlets.   

              Income
tax expense of taxable REIT subsidiaries decreased $22.7 million due primarily to a $19.5 million tax benefit recognized related to the impairment charge related to
our write-off of our entire investment in Surprise Grand Vista JV I, LLC, which is developing land located in Phoenix, Arizona, along with a reduction in the taxable income for the
management company as a result of structural changes made to our wholly-owned captive insurance entities.   

Income
from unconsolidated entities decreased $72.7 million, due in part to the impact of the Mills transaction (net of eliminations). On a net income basis, our share of income
from SPG-FCM approximates a net loss of $58.7 million for the year due to additional depreciation and amortization expenses on asset basis step-ups in purchase
accounting approximating $102.2 million for the second through fourth quarters of 2007. Also contributing to the decrease is the prior year recognition of $15.6 million in income related
to a beneficial interest that we held in 2006 in a regional mall entity. This beneficial interest was terminated in November 2006.   

In
2007, we recognized an impairment of $55.1 million related to our Surprise Grand Vista venture in Phoenix, Arizona. As described above, the charge to earnings resulted in a
$19.5 million tax benefit, resulting in a net charge to earnings, before consideration of the limited partners' interest, of $35.6 million.   

              We
recorded a $92.0 million net gain on the sales of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities in 2007 primarily as a result of the sale of five assets in Poland by Simon
Ivanhoe. In 2006, we recorded a gain related to the sale of a beneficial interest of $86.5 million, a $34.4 million gain on the sale of a 10.5% interest in Simon Ivanhoe, and the net
gain on the sale of four non-core properties, including one joint venture property, of $12.2 million.   

              Preferred
distributions of the Operating Partnership decreased $5.4 million due to the effect of the conversion of preferred units to common units or shares.   

              In
2007, the loss on sale of discontinued operations of $28.0 million, net of the limited partners' interest, represents the net loss upon disposition of five
non-core properties consisting of three regional malls and two community/lifestyle centers.   

Preferred
dividends decreased $22.6 million as a result of the redemption of the Series G preferred stock in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the Series F preferred
stock in the fourth quarter of 2006.   

   Liquidity and Capital Resources     

              Because we generate revenues primarily from long-term leases, our financing strategy relies primarily on long-term fixed
rate debt. We manage our floating rate debt to be at or below 15-25% of total outstanding indebtedness by negotiating interest rates for each financing or refinancing based on current
market conditions. Floating rate debt currently comprises approximately 15% of our total consolidated debt. We also enter into interest rate protection agreements as appropriate to assist in managing
our interest rate risk. We derive most of our liquidity from leases that generate positive net cash flow from operations and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities that totaled
$1.9 billion during 2008. In addition, the Credit Facility provides an alternative source of liquidity as our cash needs vary from time to time. Also, we recently declared a dividend for the
first quarter of 2009 that will be paid in cash and shares of common stock, with the cash component limited to 10% on an aggregate basis. Paying 90% of the 2009 dividend in shares of common stock
allows us to satisfy our REIT taxable income distribution requirement while enhancing financial flexibility and balance sheet strength.   

Our
balance of cash and cash equivalents increased $271.6 million during 2008 to $773.5 million as of December 31, 2008. December 31, 2008 and 2007 balances
include $29.8 million and $41.3 million, respectively, related to our co-branded gift card programs, which we do not consider available for general working capital purposes.   

              On
December 31, 2008, we had available borrowing capacity of approximately $2.4 billion under the Credit Facility, net of outstanding borrowings of $1.0 billion and
letters of credit of $15.7 million. During 2008, the maximum   

  79  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

amount
outstanding under the Credit Facility was $2.6 billion and the weighted average amount outstanding was $1.4 billion. The weighted average interest rate was 3.49% for the year
ended December 31, 2008. The Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on January 11, 2010, which we can extend for another year at our option.   

              We
and the Operating Partnership have historically had access to public equity and long term unsecured debt markets and access to private equity from institutional investors at the
property level.   

              Our
business model requires us to regularly access the debt and equity capital markets to raise funds for some of our acquisition activity, development and redevelopment capital, as
well as to refinance many of our existing debt maturities. We are currently seeing significant turmoil in the capital markets. This has impacted access to debt and equity capital for many
organizations, including ours. As demonstrated by recent financing activities (both secured and unsecured), we were able to successfully access capital in the third and fourth quarters of 2008;
however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so on similar terms or conditions in future periods. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand and availability under the Credit Facility to
address our debt maturities and capital needs through 2009.   

Acquisition of The Mills Corporation by SPG-FCM     

On February 16, 2007, SPG-FCM, a 50/50 joint venture between an affiliate of the Operating Partnership and funds
managed by Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., or Farallon, entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Mills for $25.25 per common share in cash. The
acquisition of Mills and its interests in the 36 properties that remain at December 31, 2008 was completed in April 2007. As of December 31, 2008, we and Farallon had each funded
$650.0 million into SPG-FCM to acquire all of the common stock of Mills. As part of the transaction, the Operating Partnership also made loans to SPG-FCM and Mills
primarily at rates of LIBOR plus 270-275 basis points. These funds were used by SPG-FCM and Mills to repay loans and other obligations of Mills, including the redemption of
preferred stock, during 2007. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance of our loan to SPG-FCM was $520.7 million, and the average outstanding balance during the
twelve month period ended December 31, 2008 of all loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills was approximately $534.1 million. During 2008 and 2007, we recorded approximately
$15.3 million and $39.1 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to these loans, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee income amortization
related to up-front fees on loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills, during 2008 and 2007 of approximately $3.1 million and $17.4 million (net of inter-entity
eliminations), respectively, for providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM. The existing loan facility to SPG-FCM bears a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis
points and matures on June 7, 2009, with three available one-year extensions. Fees charged on loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the life of the loan.   

              The
Mills acquisition involved the purchase of all Mills' outstanding shares of common stock and common units for approximately $1.7 billion (at $25.25 per share or unit), the
assumption of $954.9 million of preferred stock, the assumption of a proportionate share of property-level mortgage debt, of which SPG-FCM's share approximated $3.8 billion,
the assumption of $1.2 billion in unsecured loans provided by us, costs to effect the acquisition, and certain liabilities and contingencies, including an ongoing investigation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8 billion. SPG-FCM has completed its purchase price allocations for the Mills acquisition using
valuations developed with the assistance of a third-party professional appraisal firm.   

In
conjunction with the Mills acquisition, we acquired a majority interest in two properties in which we previously held a 50% ownership interest (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett
Place) and as a result we have consolidated these two properties at the date of acquisition.   

              In
addition to the loans provided to SPG-FCM, we also provide management services to substantially all of the properties in which SPG-FCM holds an interest.   

  80  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Cash Flows     

Our net cash flow from operating activities and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities totaled $1.9 billion
during 2008. In addition, we received net proceeds from our debt financing and repayment activities in 2008 of $764.8 million. These activities are further discussed below in "Financing and
Debt". We also:   

repurchased preferred stock and limited partner units amounting to $17.9 million,           paid stockholder dividends and unitholder
distributions totaling $1.0 billion,         
  paid preferred stock dividends and preferred unit distributions totaling $58.7 million,           funded consolidated capital expenditures of $874.3 million. These
capital expenditures include development costs of
$327.7 million, renovation and expansion costs of $431.9 million, and tenant costs and other operational capital expenditures of $114.7 million and           funded investments in
unconsolidated entities of $137.5 million.    

In
general, we anticipate that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating expenses, monthly debt service, recurring capital expenditures, and distributions to
stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification on a long-term basis. In addition, we expect to be able to obtain capital for nonrecurring capital expenditures, such as
acquisitions, major building renovations and expansions, as well as for scheduled principal maturities on outstanding indebtedness, from:   

excess cash generated from operating performance and working capital reserves,           borrowings on our Credit Facility,
         additional secured or unsecured debt financing, or           additional equity raised in the public or private markets.

We
expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2009, and we consider these projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived
from retail tenants, many of whom are experiencing considerable financial distress. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to increase our reliance on
available funds from the Credit Facility, curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing as discussed above.   

Financing and Debt     

Unsecured Debt      

Our unsecured debt currently consists of $10.7 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating Partnership and the Credit
Facility. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 37.5 basis points and an additional facility fee of 12.5 basis points. The Credit Facility matures January 11, 2010 and may be
extended one year at our option.   

              On
May 19, 2008, we issued two tranches of senior unsecured notes totaling $1.5 billion at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 5.74% consisting of a
$700.0 million tranche with a fixed interest rate of 5.30% due May 30, 2013 and a second $800.0 million tranche with a fixed interest rate of 6.125% due May 30, 2018. We
used proceeds from the offering to reduce borrowings on the Credit Facility and for general working capital purposes.   

              On
June 16, 2008, the Operating Partnership completed the redemption of the $200.0 million outstanding principal amount of its 7% Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities,
or MOPPRS. The redemption was accounted for as an extinguishment and resulted in a charge in the second quarter of 2008 of approximately $20.3 million.   

On
August 28, 2008, the Operating Partnership repaid a $150.0 million unsecured note, which had a fixed rate of 5.38%.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2008, we drew amounts from the Credit Facility to fund the redemption of the remarketable debt securities and the repayment of the
$150.0 million unsecured note. Other amounts drawn on the Credit Facility during the period were primarily for general working capital purposes. We repaid a total of $2.7 billion on the
Credit Facility during the year ended December 31, 2008. The total outstanding balance of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2008 was $1.0 billion, and the maximum amount
outstanding during the year was approximately $2.6 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the weighted average outstanding balance was approximately   

  81  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

$1.4 billion.
The amount outstanding as of December 31, 2008 includes $446.3 million in Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings. In addition, subsequent to
December 31, 2008, we repaid $600 million in unsecured notes, consisting of two $300 million tranches that bore rates of 3.75% and 7.13%, respectively, using proceeds from the
Credit Facility.   

Secured Debt     

Total secured indebtedness was $6.3 billion and $5.3 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During
the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2008, we repaid $274.0 million in mortgage loans, unencumbering five properties.   

              On
January 15, 2008, we entered into a swap transaction that effectively converted $300.0 million of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt at a rate of 3.21%.   

              On
March 6, 2008, we borrowed $705 million on a term loan that matures March 5, 2012 and bears a rate of LIBOR plus 70 basis points. On May 27, 2008, the
loan was increased to $735 million. This loan is secured by the cash flow distributed from six properties and has additional availability of $115 million through the maturity date.   

On
July 30, 2008, we borrowed $190.0 million on a loan secured by Philadelphia Premium Outlets, which matures on July 30, 2014 and bears interest at a variable rate
of LIBOR plus 185 basis points. On January 2, 2009, we executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on this loan at 4.19%.   

              On
September 23, 2008, we borrowed $170.0 million on a term loan that matures September 23, 2013 and bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 195 basis points. On
November 4, 2008, the loan was increased to $220 million and on December 17, 2008, the loan was increased to its maximum availability of $260 million. This is a
cross-collateralized loan that is secured by The Domain, Shops at Arbor Walk, and Palms Crossing. On January 2, 2009, we executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on
$200.0 million of this loan at 4.35%.   

Summary of Financing     

Our consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect one fair value derivative outstanding at December 31, 2007 and the effect of fixing
variable rate debt with interest rate swaps, and the effective weighted average interest rates for the years then ended consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):   

As
of December 31, 2008, we had interest rate cap protection agreements on $281.8 million of consolidated variable rate debt. We also hold $505.0 million of
notional amount variable rate swap agreements that have a weighted average fixed pay rate of 3.29% and a weighted average variable receive rate of 2.75%. As of December 31, 2008, the net effect
of these agreements effectively converted $505.0 million of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt.   

  82  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

                 Contractual Obligations and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements:        The following table summarizes the material
aspects of our future obligations
as of December 31, 2008 (dollars in thousands):   

(1)    Represents
principal maturities only and therefore, excludes net premiums and discounts of $17,199 and all required interest payments. We incurred interest
expense during 2008 of $947.1 million, net of capitalized interest of $27.8 million.
      (2)    Represents
our pro rata share of principal maturities and excludes net premiums and discounts.
      (3)    Represents
our pro rata share of capital expenditure commitments.
      (4)    Represents
only the minimum non-cancellable lease period, excluding applicable lease extension and renewal options.    

              Capital
expenditure commitments presented in the table above represent new developments, redevelopments or renovation/expansions that we have committed to the completion of
construction. The timing of these expenditures may vary due to delays in construction or acceleration of the opening date of a particular project. In addition, the amount includes our share of
committed costs for joint venture developments.   

              Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of our investments in real estate joint ventures which are common in the real estate industry and are described in
Note 7 of the notes to the accompanying financial statements. Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture, is typically secured by the joint venture property, and is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2008, the Operating Partnership had loan guarantees and other guarantee obligations to support $71.9 million and $6.6 million,
respectively, to support our total $6.6 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness presented in the table above.   

Preferred Stock Activity     

During 2008, we issued a total of 22,400 shares of Series I 6% Preferred Stock for an equal number of Series I preferred
units and we issued 5,151,776 shares of common stock to holders of Series I preferred stock who exercised their conversion rights.   

Acquisitions and Dispositions     

Buy-sell provisions are common in real estate partnership agreements. Most of our partners are institutional investors who
have a history of direct investment in retail real estate. Our partners in our joint venture properties may   

  83  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

  initiate
these provisions at any time. If we determine it is in our stockholders' best interests for us to purchase the joint venture interest and we believe we have adequate liquidity to execute the
purchase without hindering our cash flows, then we may initiate these provisions or elect to buy. If we decide to sell any of our joint venture interests, we expect to use the net proceeds to reduce
outstanding indebtedness or to reinvest in development, redevelopment, or expansion opportunities.   

Acquisitions.        The acquisition of high quality individual properties or portfolios of properties remains
an integral component of our growth strategy.
Effective January 1, 2008 we acquired an additional 1.8% interest in Oxford Valley Mall and Lincoln Plaza (which gives us a combined ownership interest in each of 64.99%). On
September 12, 2008 we acquired an additional 3.2% interest in White Oaks Mall (which gives us an ownership interest of 80.68%). On December 31, 2008 we acquired an additional 5% interest
in Gateway Shopping Center for $2.6 million (which gives us 100% interest in the asset).   

Dispositions.        We continue to pursue the sale of properties that no longer meet our strategic criteria or
that are not the primary retail venue within
their trade area. On December 30, 2008, the joint venture partnership in which we own a 50% interest sold Cincinnati Mills for $8.3 million. No material gain or loss was recorded on this
disposition. There were no other dispositions of properties during the year ended December 31, 2008.   

Development Activity     

New Domestic Developments.        Given the significant downturn in the economy, we have substantially reduced
our development spending. We expect to
complete construction on Cincinnati Premium Outlets, a 400,000 square foot upscale manufacturers' outlet center located in Monroe, OH, during the third quarter of 2009. The estimated total cost of
this project is $92 million, and the carrying amount of the construction in progress as of December 31, 2008 was $43 million. We expect to fund this project with available cash
flow from operations and borrowings from the Credit Facility.   

Strategic Domestic Expansions and Renovations.        In addition to new development, we also incur costs to
renovate and/or expand selected properties.
Current projects include a 600,000 square foot Phase II expansion at The Domain, a 220,000 square foot expansion of Camarillo Premium Outlets   The Promenade at, and the
addition of Nordstrom and small shops at South Shore Plaza. We expect to fund these capital projects with available cash flow from operations and borrowings from the Credit Facility. We expect to
invest a total of approximately $300 million (our share) on expansion and renovation activities in 2009.   

Capital Expenditures on Consolidated Properties.      

The following table summarizes total capital expenditures on consolidated properties on a cash basis:   

84  

Table of Contents    

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

International Development Activity.        We typically reinvest net cash flow from our international
investments to fund future international development
activity. We believe this strategy mitigates some of the risk of our initial investment and our exposure to changes in foreign currencies. We have also funded our European investments with
Euro-denominated borrowings that act as a natural hedge against local currency fluctuations. This has also been the case with our Premium Outlet Centers in Japan and Mexico where we use
Yen and Peso denominated financing, respectively. We expect our share of international development costs for 2009 will be approximately $140 million. We expect international development and
redevelopment/expansion activity for 2009 to include:   

continuing construction by Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI, on two shopping centers: one in Naples, and one in Sicily
with a total gross leasable area, or GLA, of 942,000 square feet.           completing and opening of Ami Premium Outlets Phase 1, a 227,000 square foot Premium Outlet Center located in
Japan.
We hold a 40% ownership interest in this property.           completing and opening three additional Wal-Mart anchored shopping centers, all located in China. We hold a
32.5% ownership interest in these centers.    

Currently,
our net income exposure to changes in the volatility of the Euro, Yen, Peso and other foreign currencies is not material. In addition, since cash flows from international
operations are currently being reinvested in other development projects, we do not expect to repatriate foreign denominated earnings in the near term.   

              The
carrying amount of our total combined investment in Simon Ivanhoe and GCI, as of December 31, 2008, including all related components of other comprehensive income, was
$224.2 million. Our investments in Simon Ivanhoe and GCI are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Currently two European developments are under construction which will add
approximately 942,000 square feet of GLA for a total net cost of approximately  221 million, of which our share is approximately  53 million, or
$74.8 million based on current Euro:USD exchange rates.   

              On
October 20, 2005, Ivanhoe Cambridge, Inc., or Ivanhoe, an affiliate of Caisse de d p t et placement du Qu bec, effectively
acquired our former partner's 39.5% ownership interest in Simon Ivanhoe. On February 13, 2006, we sold a 10.5% interest in this joint venture to Ivanhoe for
 45.2 million, or $53.9 million and recorded a gain on the disposition of $34.4 million. This gain is reported in "gain on sales of interests in unconsolidated
entities" in the 2006 consolidated statements of operations. We then settled all remaining share purchase commitments from the company's founders, including the early settlement of some commitments by
purchasing an additional 25.8% interest for  55.1 million, or $65.5 million. As a result of these transactions, we and Ivanhoe each own a 50% interest in Simon Ivanhoe at
December 31, 2007 and 2008.   

              As
of December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of our 40% joint venture investment in the seven Japanese Premium Outlet Centers including all related components of other
comprehensive income was $312.6 million. Currently, Ami Premium Outlets, a 227,000 square foot Premium Outlet Center, is under construction in Ami, Japan. The project's total projected net cost
is JPY 15.5 billion, of which our share is approximately JPY 6.2 billion, or $68.5 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates.   

              As
of December 31, 2008, the carrying amount of our 32.5% joint venture investment in GMI including all related components of other comprehensive income was $53.9 million.
Currently, one center is open in Changshu, China and three additional centers are under development. The three centers under development will add approximately 1.5 million square feet of GLA
for a total net cost of approximately CNY 1.6 billion, of which our share is approximately CNY 523 million, or $76.8 million based on applicable CNY:USD exchange rates.   

              During
2008, we acquired shares of stock of Liberty International, PLC, or Liberty. Liberty operates regional shopping centers and is the owner of other prime retail assets
throughout the U.K. Liberty is a U.K. FTSE 100 listed company, with shareholders' funds of  4.7 billion and property investments of  8.6 billion, of which
its U.K. regional shopping centers comprise 75%. Assets of the group under control or joint control amount to  11.0 billion. Liberty converted into a U.K. Real Estate Investment
Trust (REIT) on January 1, 2007. Our interest in Liberty is less than 5% of their shares and is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component.   

  85  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Distributions and Stock Repurchase Program     

              On January 30, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.90 per share, to be paid in a
combination of cash and shares of our common stock. While our stockholders will have the right to elect to receive their dividend in either cash or common stock, we have announced that the aggregate
cash component of the dividend will not exceed 10% of the total dividend, or $0.09 per share. If the number of stockholders electing to receive cash would result in our payment of cash in excess of
this 10% limitation, we will allocate the cash payment on a pro rata basis among those stockholders making the cash election. We have reserved the right to elect to pay this dividend all in cash. Our
Board of Directors reviews and approves dividends on a quarterly basis, and no determination has been made about whether our remaining 2009 dividends will be paid in a similar combination of cash and
common stock. Paying all or a portion of the 2009 dividend in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock allows us to satisfy our REIT taxable income distribution requirement under existing
IRS revenue procedures, while enhancing our financial flexibility and balance sheet strength.   

              Dividends
during 2008 aggregated $3.60 per share and dividends during 2007 aggregated $3.36 per share all paid in cash. We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status
as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Future dividends and distributions of
Simon Property and the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and
what may be required to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Our
Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of common stock through July 2009. We may repurchase the shares in the open market or in privately
negotiated transactions. During 2008, no purchases were made as part of this program. The program had remaining availability of approximately $950.7 million at December 31, 2008.   

    Forward-Looking Statements     

              Certain statements made in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance
that our expectations will be attained, and it is possible that our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks,
uncertainties and other factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the impact of a prolonged recession, our ability to meet debt service requirements, the availability and terms of
financing, changes in our credit rating, changes in market
rates of interest and foreign exchange rates for foreign currencies, the ability to hedge interest rate risk, risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties, general
risks related to retail real estate, the liquidity of real estate investments, environmental liabilities, changes in market rental rates, trends in the retail industry, relationships with anchor
tenants, the inability to collect rent due to the bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, risks relating to joint venture properties, competitive market forces, risks related to
international activities, insurance costs and coverage, terrorist activities, and maintenance of our status as a real estate investment trust. We discuss these and other risks and uncertainties under
the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may update that discussion in subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, but
otherwise we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.   

    Non-GAAP Financial Measure   Funds from Operations     

              Industry practice is to evaluate real estate properties in part based on funds from operations, or FFO. We consider FFO to be a key
measure of our operating performance that is not specifically defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We believe that FFO is helpful to investors because it
is a widely recognized measure of the performance of REITs and provides a relevant basis for comparison among REITs. We also use this measure internally to measure the operating performance of our
portfolio.   

  86  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              We
determine FFO based on the definition set forth by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, as consolidated net income computed in accordance with
GAAP:   

excluding real estate related depreciation and amortization,           excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items and cumulative
effects of accounting changes,          excluding gains and losses from the sales of previously depreciated operating properties,           plus the allocable portion of FFO of unconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting based upon
economic ownership interest, and           all determined on a consistent basis in accordance with GAAP.    

We
have adopted NAREIT's clarification of the definition of FFO that requires us to include the effects of nonrecurring items not classified as extraordinary, cumulative effect of
accounting changes, or a gain or loss resulting from the sale of previously depreciated operating properties. We include in FFO gains and losses realized from the sale of land, outlot buildings,
marketable and non-marketable securities, and investment holdings of non-retail real estate. However, you should understand that our computation of FFO might not be comparable
to FFO reported by other REITs and that FFO:   

does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP,           should not be considered as an alternative to net income determined
in accordance with GAAP as a measure of operating
performance, and           is not an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.    

The
following schedule sets forth total FFO before allocation to the limited partners of the Operating Partnership and FFO allocable to us. This schedule also reconciles FFO to
consolidated net income, which we believe is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented.   

  87  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

88  

Table of Contents   

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Management's Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting            

              We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and
procedures that:   

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
disposition of assets;     
           Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and    
           Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

              We
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.   

              Based
on that assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Their report appears on the following
page of this Annual Report.   

  89  

Table of Contents   

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Simon Property Group, Inc. and
Subsidiaries' management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.   

              We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

              A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

              Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

              In
our opinion, Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, based on the COSO criteria.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property
Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 of Simon Property Group, Inc and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 25, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.   

90  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

              We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

              In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Simon Property Group, Inc. and
Subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

91  

Table of Contents    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  92  

Table of Contents    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  93  

Table of Contents    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Dollars in thousands)   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  94  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 
(Dollars in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  95  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

1.    Organization     

Simon Property Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under
the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of
our real estate properties. In these notes to consolidated financial statements, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and their subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop, and manage retail real estate in five retail real estate platforms: regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers , The Mills , community/lifestyle
centers, and international properties. As of December 31, 2008, we owned or held an interest in 324 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 164 regional malls, 16
additional regional malls and four additional community centers acquired as a result of the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, 70 community/lifestyle centers, 16 The
Mills, 40 Premium Outlet Centers, and 14 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. We also own interests in four parcels of land held in the United States for future
development. Internationally, we have ownership interests in 52 European shopping centers (France, Italy, and Poland); seven Premium Outlet Centers in Japan; one Premium Outlet Center in
Mexico; one Premium Outlet Center in Korea; and one shopping center in China. Also, through joint venture arrangements we have ownership interests in the following properties under development
internationally: a 24% interest in two shopping centers in Italy, a 40% interest in a Premium Outlet Center in Japan, and a 32.5% interests in three additional shopping centers under construction in
China.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:   

Base minimum rents,     
           Overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and     
           Recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate tax,
repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

We
also grow by generating supplemental revenues from the following activities:   

Establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (including handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,     
           Offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including: waste handling and facility services, as well as
major capital expenditures such as roofing, parking lots and energy systems,     
           Selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           Generating interest income on cash deposits and loans made to related entities.    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation     

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all majority-owned subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.

We
consolidate properties that are wholly owned or properties that we own less than 100% but we control. Control of a property is demonstrated by, among other factors, our ability
to:   

manage day-to-day operations,     
           refinance debt and sell the property without the consent of any other partner or owner, and    
 
  96  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

the inability of any other partner or owner to replace us.    

We
also consolidate all variable interest entities, or VIE, when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. Our determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE considers all
relationships between us and the VIE, including management agreements and other contractual arrangements, when determining the party obligated to absorb the majority of the expected losses, as defined
in FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46(R)). There have been no changes during 2008 in conclusions about whether an entity qualifies
as a VIE or whether we are the primary beneficiary of any previously identified VIE. During 2008, we have not provided financial or other support to a previously identified VIE that we were not
previously contractually obligated to provide.   

              The
deficit minority interest balances included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets represent outside partners' interests in the net
equity of certain properties. We record deficit minority interests when a joint venture agreement provides for the settlement of deficit capital accounts before distributing the proceeds from the sale
of joint venture assets or the joint venture partner is obligated to make additional contributions to the extent of any capital account deficits and has the ability to fund such additional
contributions.   

              Investments
in partnerships and joint ventures represent noncontrolling ownership interests in properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. We
initially record these investments at cost and we subsequently adjust for net equity in income or loss, which we allocate in accordance with the provisions of the applicable partnership or joint
venture agreement, and cash contributions and distributions. The allocation provisions in the partnership or joint venture agreements are not always consistent with the legal ownership interests held
by each general or limited partner or joint venture investee primarily due to partner preferences.   

As
of December 31, 2008, we consolidated 203 wholly-owned properties and consolidated 18 additional properties that are less than wholly-owned, but which we control or for which
we are the primary beneficiary. We account for the remaining 165 properties using the equity method of accounting (joint venture properties). We manage the day-to-day
operations of 93 of the 165 joint venture properties but have determined that our partner or partners have substantive participating rights in regards to the assets and operations of these joint
venture properties. Additionally, we account for our investment in SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, which acquired The Mills Corporation and its majority-owned
subsidiary, The Mills Limited Partnership, or collectively Mills, in April 2007, using the equity method of accounting. We have determined that SPG-FCM is not a VIE and that Farallon
Capital Management, L.L.C., or Farallon, our joint venture partner, has substantive participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of SPG-FCM pursuant to the applicable
partnership agreements.   

              We
allocate net operating results of the Operating Partnership after preferred distributions to third parties and to us based on the partners' respective weighted average ownership
interests in the Operating Partnership.   

              Our
weighted average ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was 80.4% and 79.4%, respectively. We adjust the limited partners' interest in the Operating
Partnership at the end of each period to reflect their interest in the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
distributions of the Operating Partnership in the accompanying statements of operations and cash flows represent distributions on outstanding preferred units of limited
partnership interest.   

  97  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investment Properties      

We record investment properties at cost. Investment properties include costs of acquisitions; development, predevelopment, and
construction (including allocable salaries and related benefits); tenant allowances and improvements; and interest and real estate taxes incurred related to construction. We capitalize improvements
and replacements from repair and maintenance when the repair and maintenance extend the useful life, increase capacity, or improve the efficiency of the asset. All other repair and maintenance items
are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest on projects during periods of construction until the projects are ready for their intended purpose based on interest rates in place during the
construction period. The amount of interest capitalized during each year is as follows:   

We
record depreciation on buildings and improvements utilizing the straight-line method over an estimated original useful life, which is generally 10 to 40 years. We
review depreciable lives of investment properties periodically and we make adjustments when necessary to reflect a shorter economic life. We record depreciation on tenant allowances, tenant
inducements and tenant improvements utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter. We record depreciation on equipment
and fixtures utilizing the straight-line method over seven to ten years.   

              We
review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in cash flows, occupancy and comparable sales per square foot at the property. We recognize
an impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To
the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale
prices of these properties may differ from their carrying values.   

              Certain
of our real estate assets contain asbestos. The asbestos is appropriately contained, in accordance with current environmental regulations, and we have no current plans to remove
the asbestos. If these properties were demolished, certain environmental regulations are in place which specify the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and disposed. Because the obligation to
remove the asbestos has an indeterminable settlement date, we are not able to reasonably estimate the fair value of this asset retirement obligation.   

Purchase Accounting Allocation      

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based upon the relative value of each
component in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 141 "Business Combinations" (SFAS 141). These components typically include buildings, land and intangibles related to in-place leases and we
estimate:   

the fair value of the buildings on an as-if-vacant basis. The value allocated to land and related
improvements is determined either by real estate tax assessments, a third party valuation specialist, or other relevant data.     
           the market value of in-place leases based upon our best estimate of current market rents and amortize the
resulting market rent adjustment into revenues.     
           the value of costs to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances and improvements and leasing commissions.    
 
  98  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

the value of revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the space was
vacant.    

Amounts
allocated to building are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of the acquired building or related improvements. We amortize amounts allocated to tenant improvements,
in-place lease assets and other lease-related intangibles over the remaining life of the underlying leases. We also estimate the value of other acquired intangible assets, if any, which
are amortized over the remaining life of the underlying related leases or intangibles.   

Discontinued Operations      

SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" (SFAS 144) provides a
framework for the evaluation of impairment of
long-lived assets, the treatment of assets held for sale or to be otherwise disposed of, and the reporting of discontinued operations. SFAS 144 requires us to reclassify any
material operations related to consolidated properties sold during the period to discontinued operations. During 2007, we reported the net loss upon sale on our five consolidated assets sold in "loss
on sale of discontinued operations" in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The operating results of the assets disposed of in 2007 were not significant to our
consolidated results of operations. There were no consolidated assets sold during 2008.   

Cash and Cash Equivalents      

We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash and cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents generally consist of commercial paper, bankers acceptances, Eurodollars, repurchase agreements, and
money markets. Our gift card programs are administered by banks. We collect gift card funds at the point of sale and then remit those funds to the banks for further processing. As a result, cash and
cash equivalents, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, includes a balance of $29.8 million and $41.3 million, respectively, related to these gift card programs which we do not
consider available for general working capital purposes. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include our cash and cash equivalents and our trade accounts
receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with institutions with high credit quality. However, at certain times, such cash and cash equivalents may be in excess of FDIC and SIPC insurance
limits. See Notes 4, 8, and 10 for disclosures about non-cash investing and financing transactions.   

Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities      

Marketable securities consist primarily of the investments of our captive insurance subsidiaries, our investment in shares of stock of
Liberty International PLC, or Liberty, our deferred compensation plan investments, and certain investments held to fund the debt service requirements of debt previously secured by investment
properties that have been sold. Non-marketable securities includes an investment that we acquired in 2008.   

              The
types of securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries typically include U.S. Treasury or other U.S. government securities as well as
corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from 1 to 10 years. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are valued based upon quoted market
prices or using discounted cash flows when quoted market prices are not available. The amortized cost of debt securities, which approximates fair value, held by our captive insurance subsidiaries is
adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Our investment in Liberty is also accounted for as an available-for-sale security. Liberty
operates regional shopping centers and is owner of other retail assets throughout the U.K. Liberty is a U.K. FTSE 100 listed company. Liberty converted into a U.K. Real Estate Investment Trust
(REIT) on January 1, 2007. Our interest in Liberty is less than 5% of their shares and is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component. Changes in the
values of these securities are recognized in accumulated other   

  99  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

comprehensive
income (loss) until the gain or loss is realized and recorded in other income, and includes the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on foreign currency denominated investments.
However, if we determine a decline in value is other than temporary, then we recognize the unrealized loss in earnings to write down the investments to their net realizable value.   

              Our
insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain statutory minimum capital and surplus as well as maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. Therefore, our access to these securities may be
limited. Our deferred compensation plan investments are classified as trading securities and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The investments have a matching liability recorded as the
amounts are fully payable to the employees that earned the compensation. Changes in the values of these securities are recognized in earnings, but because of the matching liability the impact to net
income is zero. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we have investments of $53.4 million and $55.9 million, respectively, which must be used to fund the debt service requirements of
debt related to investment properties sold. These investments are classified as held-to-maturity and are recorded at amortized cost as we have the ability and intent to hold
these investments to maturity. During 2008, we made an investment of $70 million in a non-marketable security that we account for under the cost method. To the extent an
other-than-temporary decline in fair value is deemed to have occurred, we would adjust this investment to its fair value.   

Fair Value Measurements      

We hold marketable securities that total $316.7 million and $260.4 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, and are considered to have Level 1 fair value inputs. The underlying aggregate unrealized loss on our marketable securities as of December 31, 2008 was
$165.3 million. In addition, we have derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements, with a gross liability balance of $19.4 million and $6.8 million, at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are classified as having Level 2 inputs. As defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 157, "Fair Value
Measurements" (SFAS 157), Level 1 fair value inputs are quoted prices for identical items in active, liquid and visible markets such as stock exchanges, and Level 2 fair value
inputs include observable information for similar items in active or inactive markets. We appropriately consider counterparty creditworthiness in the valuations.   

Accounting for Beneficial Interests in Mall of America      

In January 2006, an entity controlled by the Simon family assigned to us its right to receive cash flow, capital distributions, and
related profits and losses with respect to a portion of its ownership interest in the Mall of America through Mall of America Associates, or MOAA. This beneficial interest was transferred subject to a
credit facility repayable from MOAA's distributions from the property. As a result of this assignment, we began recognizing our share of MOAA's income during the first quarter of 2006, including the
proportionate share of earnings of MOAA since August 2004 through the first quarter of 2006 of $10.2 million. This income is included with "income from unconsolidated entities" in our
consolidated statement of operations. We accounted for our beneficial interests in MOAA under the equity method of accounting. On November 2, 2006, the Simon family entity sold its partnership
interest to an affiliate of another partner in MOAA and settled all pending litigation, terminating our beneficial interests. As a result of this sale, we ceased recording income from this property's
operations, and recorded a gain of approximately $86.5 million as a result of the receipt of $102.2 million of capital transaction proceeds assigned to us from this arrangement which is
included in "gain on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities" in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

Use of Estimates      

We prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial   

  100  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

statements,
and revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our actual results could differ from these estimates.   

Segment Disclosure      

SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" (SFAS 131) requires disclosure of
certain operating and financial data with respect to separate business activities within an enterprise. Our primary business is the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate. We
have aggregated our retail operations, including regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, and community/lifestyle centers, into one reportable segment because they have similar economic
characteristics and we provide similar products and services to similar types of tenants. Further, all material operations are within the United States and no customer or tenant comprises more than
10% of consolidated revenues.   

Deferred Costs and Other Assets      

Deferred costs and other assets include the following as of December 31:   

Deferred Financing and Lease Costs.        Our deferred costs consist primarily of financing fees we incurred
in order to obtain long-term
financing and internal and external leasing commissions and related costs. We record amortization of deferred financing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the respective
loans or agreements. Our deferred leasing costs consist primarily of capitalized salaries and related benefits in connection with lease originations. We record amortization of deferred leasing costs
on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Details of these deferred costs as of December 31 are as follows:   

We
report amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of premiums, and accretion of discounts as part of interest expense. Amortization of deferred leasing costs are a
component of depreciation and amortization expense. We amortize debt premiums and discounts, which are included in mortgages and other indebtedness, over the remaining terms of the related debt
instruments. These debt premiums or discounts arise either at the debt issuance or   

  101  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

as
part of the purchase price allocation of the fair value of debt assumed in acquisitions. The accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income includes amortization as follows:   

Intangible Assets.        The average life of in-place lease intangibles is approximately 5.5 years and is
amortized over the remaining
life of the leases of the related property on the straight-line basis and is included with depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive
income. The fair market value of above and below market leases are amortized into revenue over the remaining lease life as a component of reported minimum rents. The weighted average remaining life of
these intangibles approximates 2 years. The unamortized amounts of below market leases are included in accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and deferred revenues on the consolidated
balance sheets were $94.3 million and $146.7 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The amount of amortization of above and below market leases, net for the year
ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $35.4 million, $44.6 million, and $53.3 million, respectively. If a lease is terminated prior to the original lease termination,
any remaining unamortized intangible is charged to the income statement.   

              Details
of intangible assets as of December 31 are as follows:   

Estimated
future amortization, and the increasing (decreasing) effect on minimum rents for our above and below market leases recorded as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:   

102  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Derivative Financial Instruments      

We account for our derivative financial instruments pursuant to SFAS 133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities," as amended by SFAS 138, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." We use a variety of derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to
manage or hedge the risks associated with our indebtedness and interest payments as described in Note 8 and record all derivatives on our balance sheets at fair value. We require that hedging
derivative instruments be highly effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. We formally designate any instrument that meets these hedging criteria as a hedge at the
inception of the derivative contract.   

              We
adjust our balance sheets on an ongoing basis to reflect the current fair market value of our derivatives. We record changes in the fair value of these derivatives each period in
earnings or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. The ineffective portion of the hedge is immediately recognized in earnings to the extent that the change in value of a derivative does not
perfectly offset the change in value of the instrument being hedged. The unrealized gains and losses held in accumulated other comprehensive income will be reclassified to earnings over time as the
hedged items are recognized in earnings. We have a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors.   

              We
use standard market conventions to determine the fair values of derivative instruments, and techniques such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models, and termination
cost to determine fair value at each balance sheet date. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value and such value may never actually be realized.   

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)      

The components of our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), after considering the effect of limited partners' interest in us,
consisted of the following as of December 31:   

Included
in cumulative translation adjustment is the common stockholders' pro-rata share of the gain related to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on foreign currency
denominated debt of $37.4 million and $28.1 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively that hedges the currency exposure related to certain of our foreign investments.
The net unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008 of $131.9 million represents the common stockholders' share of valuation and related currency adjustments for our marketable securities,
including our investment in Liberty. We do not consider the decline in value of any of our marketable securities to be an other-than-temporary decline in value as these market
value declines have existed for a short period of time, and we have the ability and intent to hold these securities. Further, as it relates to Liberty, we believe their underlying operating
fundamentals remain substantially unchanged.   

Revenue Recognition      

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay
overage rents based on sales over a   

  103  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  stated
base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed the applicable sales threshold.   

              We
structure our leases to allow us to recover a significant portion of our property operating, real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotion expenses from
our tenants. A substantial portion of our leases, other than those for anchor stores, require the tenant to reimburse us for a substantial portion of our operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, or CAM, real estate taxes and insurance. This significantly reduces our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. Such property operating expenses
typically include utility, insurance, security, janitorial, landscaping, food court and other administrative expenses. We accrue reimbursements from tenants for recoverable portions of all these
expenses as revenue in the period the applicable expenditures are incurred. For approximately 75% of our leases in the U.S. regional mall portfolio, we receive a fixed payment from the tenant for the
CAM component. We are continually working towards converting the remainder of our leases to the fixed payment methodology. Without the fixed-CAM component, CAM expense reimbursements are
based on the tenant's proportionate share of the allocable operating expenses and CAM capital expenditures for the property. We also receive escrow payments for these reimbursements from substantially
all our non-fixed CAM tenants and monthly fixed CAM payments throughout the year. We recognize differences between estimated recoveries and the final billed amounts in the subsequent year.
These differences were not material in any period presented. Our advertising and promotional costs are expensed as incurred.   

Management Fees and Other Revenues      

Management fees and other revenues are generally received from our unconsolidated joint venture properties as well as third parties.
Management fee revenue is earned based on a contractual percentage of joint venture property revenue. Development fee revenue is earned on a contractual percentage of hard costs to develop a property.
Leasing fee revenue is earned on a contractual per square foot charge based on the square footage of current year leasing activity. We recognize revenue for these services provided when earned based
on the underlying activity.   

              Insurance
premiums written and ceded are recognized on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. Insurance losses are reflected in property operating expenses in the
accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income and include estimates for losses incurred but not reported as well as losses pending settlement. Estimates for losses are based on
evaluations by third-party actuaries and management's best estimates. Total insurance reserves for our insurance subsidiaries and other self-insurance programs as of December 31,
2008 and 2007 approximated $116.5 million and $121.4 million, respectively.   

              We
recognize fee revenues from our co-branded gift card programs when the fees are earned under the related arrangements with the card issuer. Generally, these revenues are
recorded at the issuance of the gift card for handling fees.   

Allowance for Credit Losses      

We record a provision for credit losses based on our judgment of a tenant's creditworthiness, ability to pay and probability of
collection. In addition, we also consider the retail sector in which the tenant operates and our historical collection experience in cases of bankruptcy, if applicable. Accounts are written off when
they are deemed to be no   

  104  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  longer
collectible. Presented below is the activity in the allowance for credit losses and includes the activities related to discontinued operations during the following years:   

Income Taxes      

We and a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership have elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. In order to maintain this REIT status, the regulations require us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable
income to stockholders and meet certain other asset and income tests as well as other requirements. We intend to continue to adhere to these requirements and maintain our REIT status and that of the
REIT subsidiaries. As REITs, these entities will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Thus, we
made no provision for federal income taxes for these entities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If Simon Property or the REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, we or that
entity will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates for the years in which it failed to qualify. If we lose our REIT status we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our
failure to qualify was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were satisfied.   

              We
have also elected taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, status for some of our subsidiaries. This enables us to provide services that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REITs
and participate in activities that don't qualify as "rents from real property". For these entities, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is
provided if we believe all or some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from the change in circumstances that causes a
change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset is included in income.   

              As
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had a net deferred tax asset of $8.9 million and $19.8 million, respectively, related to our TRS subsidiaries. The net deferred
tax asset is included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consists primarily of operating losses and other carryforwards for federal income tax
purposes as well as the timing of the deductibility of losses or reserves from insurance subsidiaries. No valuation allowance has been recorded as we believe these amounts will be realized. State
income, franchise or other taxes were not significant in any of the periods presented. The income tax benefit in 2007 results primarily from the tax deductibility of a $55.1 million impairment
charge.   

Reclassifications      

We made certain reclassifications of prior period amounts in the financial statements to conform to the 2008 presentation. The
reclassifications were to amounts reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows and had no impact on previously reported operating results.   

  105  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment     

We acquire properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We acquire individual properties or portfolios of other retail real estate
companies that meet our investment criteria. We sell properties which no longer meet our strategic criteria. Our consolidated acquisition and disposal activity for the periods presented are
highlighted as follows:   

2008 Acquisitions      

Effective January 1, 2008, we acquired additional interests in three existing consolidated properties of between 1.8% and 5%,
for an aggregate $6.2 million in cash. Two of the properties continue to have a minority interest holder. We now own 100% of the third property.   

2007 Acquisitions      

As a result of the Mills acquisition which is more fully discussed in Note 7, we consolidated two regional mall properties, Town
Center at Cobb and Gwinnett Place. In addition to the Mills acquisition, on March 1, 2007, we acquired the remaining 40% interest in both University Park Mall and University Center located in
Mishawaka, Indiana from our partner and as a result, we now own 100% of these properties. On March 28, 2007, we acquired The Maine Outlet, a 112,000 square foot outlet center located in
Kittery, Maine, adjacent to our Kittery Premium Outlets property. On August 23, 2007, we acquired Las Americas Premium Outlets, a 560,000 square foot upscale outlet center located in San Diego,
California. We also purchased an additional 1% interest in Bangor Mall on July 13, 2007, and an additional 6.5% interest in Montgomery Mall on November 1, 2007. The aggregate purchase
price of the consolidated assets acquired during 2007, excluding Town Center and Cobb and Gwinnett Place, was approximately $394.2 million, including the assumption of our share of debt of the
properties acquired.   

2006 Acquisitions      

On November 1, 2006, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Mall of Georgia, a regional mall property for
$252.6 million, including the assumption of our $96.0 million share of debt. As a result, we now own 100% of Mall of Georgia and the property was consolidated as of the acquisition date.   

2008 Dispositions      

We had no consolidated property dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2008.   

2007 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold five consolidated properties for which we received net proceeds of
$56.4 million and recorded our share of a loss on the disposals (net) totaling $35.2 million.   

2006 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2006, we sold three consolidated properties and one property in which we held a 50% interest
and accounted for under the equity method. We received net proceeds of $52.7 million and recorded our share of a gain on the dispositions totaling $12.2 million.   

                 Impairment.        In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $21.2 million. This resulted primarily
from a $10.5 million reduction in the
carrying value of a regional mall to its estimated net realizable value and the write-off of predevelopment costs related to various projects that we no longer plan to pursue development.   

  106  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    5.    Per Share Data     

We determine basic earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. We determine diluted earnings per share based
on the
weighted average number of
shares of common stock outstanding combined with the incremental weighted average shares that would have been outstanding assuming all dilutive potential common shares were converted into shares at
the earliest date possible. The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted earnings per share. The amounts presented in the reconciliation below represent the common
stockholders' pro rata share of the respective line items in the statements of operations and is after considering the effect of preferred dividends.   

For
the year ending December 31, 2008, potentially dilutive securities include stock options, convertible preferred stock and common units of limited partnership interest, or
Units, in the Operating Partnership which are exchangeable for common stock and certain preferred units of limited partnership interest of the Operating Partnership. The only security that had a
dilutive effect for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were stock options.   

We
accrue distributions when they are declared. The taxable nature of the dividends declared for each of the years ended as indicated is summarized as follows:   

107  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    6.    Investment Properties     

Investment properties consist of the following as of December 31:   

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities     

Joint ventures are common in the real estate industry. We use joint ventures, primarily with institutional investors, to finance properties, develop new properties, and diversify
our
risk in a particular property or portfolio. We held joint venture ownership interests in 103 properties in the U.S. as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. We also held interests
in two joint ventures which owned 52 European shopping centers as of December 31, 2008 and 51 as of December 31, 2007. We also held an interest in seven joint venture properties
under operation in Japan, one joint venture property in Mexico, one joint venture property in Korea, and one joint venture property in China. We account for these joint venture properties using the
equity method of accounting.   

              Substantially
all of our joint venture properties are subject to rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale rights for partners which are customary in real
estate joint venture agreements and the industry. Our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions at any time (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions), which will
result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire the joint venture interest.   

Acquisition of The Mills Corporation by SPG-FCM      

              On February 16, 2007, SPG-FCM, a 50/50 joint venture between an affiliate of the Operating Partnership and funds
managed by Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., or Farallon, entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Mills for $25.25 per common share in cash. The
acquisition of Mills and its interests in the 36 properties that remain at December 31, 2008 was completed in April 2007. As of December 31, 2008, we and Farallon had each funded
$650.0 million into SPG-FCM to acquire all of the common stock of Mills. As part of the transaction, the Operating Partnership also made loans to SPG-FCM and Mills at
rates of LIBOR plus 270-275 basis points. These funds were used by SPG-FCM and Mills to repay loans and other obligations of Mills, including the redemption of preferred stock,
during 2007. As of December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance of our loan to SPG-FCM was $520.7 million, and the average outstanding balance during the year ended
December 31, 2008 of all loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills was approximately $534.1 million. During 2008 and 2007, we recorded approximately $15.3 million and
$39.1 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to these loans, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee income amortization related to
up-front fees on loans made to SPG-FCM and Mills, during 2008 and 2007 of approximately $3.1 million and $17.4 million (net of inter-entity eliminations),
respectively, for providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM. The existing loan facility to
SPG-FCM bears a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and matures on June 7, 2009, with three available one-year extensions. Fees charged on loans made to
SPG-FCM and Mills are amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the loan.   

  108  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

              As
a result of the change in control of Mills, holders of Mills' Series F convertible cumulative redeemable preferred stock had the right to require the repurchase of their
shares for cash equal to the liquidation preference per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. During the second quarter of 2007, all of the holders of Mills' Series F preferred stock
exercised this right, and Mills redeemed this series of preferred stock for approximately $333.2 million, including accrued dividends. Further, as of August 1, 2007, The Mills
Corporation was liquidated and the holders of the remaining series' of Mills preferred stock were paid a liquidation preference of approximately $693.0 million, including accrued dividends.   

              During
the third quarter of 2007, the holders of less than 5,000 common units in the Mills' operating partnership, or Mills Units, received $25.25 in cash, and those holding 5,000 or
more Mills Units had the option to exchange for cash of $25.25, or Units of the Operating Partnership based on a fixed exchange ratio of 0.211 Operating Partnership Units for each Mills Unit. That
option expired on August 1, 2007. Holders electing to exchange received 66,036 Units in the Operating Partnership for their Mills Units. The remaining Mills Units were exchanged for cash.   

              Effective
July 1, 2007, we or an affiliate of ours began serving as the manager for substantially all of the properties in which SPG-FCM holds an interest. In
conjunction with the Mills acquisition, we acquired a majority interest in two properties in which we previously held a 50% ownership interest (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett Place) and as a result
we have consolidated these two properties at the date of acquisition. We have reclassified the results of these properties in the Joint Venture Statement of Operations into "Income from consolidated
joint venture interests."   

              The
Mills acquisition involved the purchase of all of Mills' outstanding shares of common stock and common units for approximately $1.7 billion (at $25.25 per share or unit), the
assumption of $954.9 million of preferred stock, the assumption of a proportionate share of property-level mortgage debt, of which SPG-FCM's share approximated $3.8 billion,
the assumption of $1.2 billion in unsecured loans provided by us, costs to effect the acquisition, and certain liabilities and contingencies, including an ongoing investigation by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8 billion. SPG-FCM has finalized its purchase price allocations for the Mills acquisition. The
valuations were developed with the assistance of a third-party professional appraisal firm.   

              In
addition we sold our interest in Cincinnati Mills and Broward and Westland Malls, which we acquired through the Mills acquisition, and recognized no gain or loss on these
dispositions.   

Joint Venture Property Refinancing Activity      

The following joint venture property refinancing activity occurred during the period, some of which resulted in our receiving
significant excess refinancing proceeds or making contributions:   

              On
December 5, 2008, we refinanced Ontario Mills, a joint venture property in which we own a 25% interest, with a $75.0 million, LIBOR plus 296 basis points
variable-rate mortgage that matures December 5, 2013. We subsequently entered into a swap agreement that essentially fixes the interest rate at 5.13%. The balances of the previous
mortgages were $135.6 million and required a contribution by the partners to retire the loan. Our net share of the contribution was $15.7 million.   

              During
2008, we refinanced Fashion Valley Mall, a joint venture property in which we own a 50% interest, with a $200.0 million, LIBOR plus 200 bps variable-rate
mortgage that matures October 9, 2013. The balances of the two previous mortgages, which were repaid, were $153.6 million and $29.1 million and bore interest at a fixed rate of
6.49% and 6.58%, respectively. We received our share of the excess refinancing proceeds of approximately $7.1 million on the closing of the new mortgage loan.   

On
October 1, 2008, we refinanced Mall of New Hampshire, a joint venture property in which we own a 49.14% interest, with a $136.7 million, 6.23% fixed-rate
mortgage that matures October 5, 2015. The balances of the two previous mortgages, which were repaid, were $93.5 million and $7.8 million and bore interest at a fixed rate of
6.96%   

  109  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

and
8.53%, respectively. We received our share of the excess refinancing proceeds of approximately $18.7 million on the closing of the new mortgage loan.   

On
November 15, 2007, we refinanced Aventura Mall, a joint venture property in which we own a 33.3% interest, with a $430.0 million, 5.905% fixed-rate mortgage
that matures on December 11, 2017. The balance of the previous $200.0 million 6.61% fixed-rate mortgage was repaid, and we received our share of the excess refinancing
proceeds of approximately $71.4 million.   

              On
November 1, 2007, we refinanced West Town Mall, a joint venture property in which we own a 50% interest, with a $210.0 million, 6.3375% fixed-rate mortgage
that matures on December 1, 2017. The balance of the previous $76.0 million 6.90% fixed-rate mortgage was repaid, and we received our share of the excess refinancing proceeds
of approximately $66.4 million.   

  110  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

     Summary Financial Information      

              A summary of our investments in joint ventures and share of income from such joint ventures follow. We condensed into separate line
items major captions of the statements of operations for joint venture interests sold or consolidated. Consolidation occurs when we acquire an additional interest in the joint venture and as a result,
gain control of the property or become the primary beneficiary of a VIE. We reclassified these line items into "Income from discontinued joint venture interests" and "Income from consolidated joint
venture interests" so that we may present comparative results of operations for those joint venture interests held as of December 31, 2008. Balance sheet information for the joint ventures is
as follows:   

"Excess
Investment" represents the unamortized difference of our investment over our share of the equity in the underlying net assets of the joint ventures acquired. We amortize excess
investment over the life of the related properties, typically no greater than 40 years, and the amortization is included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.   

  111  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

As
of December 31, 2008, scheduled principal repayments on joint venture properties' mortgages and other indebtedness are as follows:   

This
debt becomes due in installments over various terms extending through 2036 with interest rates ranging from 1.00% to 10.61% and a weighted average rate of 4.99% at
December 31, 2008.   

112  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

     2006 Acquisition and Disposition Activity      

              On November 1, 2006, we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Mall of Georgia, a regional mall property for
$252.6 million, which includes our $96.0 million share of debt. As a result, we now own 100% of Mall of Georgia and the property was consolidated as of the acquisition date. We have
reclassified the results of this property in the Joint Venture Statement of Operations into "Income from consolidated joint venture interests."   

                 Impairment Charge.        On December 28, 2005, we invested $50.0 million of equity for a 40%
interest in a joint venture with Toll
Brothers, Inc. and Meritage Homes Corp. to purchase a 5,485-acre land parcel in northwest Phoenix from DaimlerChrysler Corporation for $312 million. The principal use of the
land upon attaining entitled status is to develop single-family homesites by our partners. As a result of the downturn in the residential market, during the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded an
impairment charge of $55.1 million, $36.5 million net of tax benefit, representing our entire equity investment in this joint venture, including interest capitalized on our invested
equity.   

     International Joint Venture Investments      

                 European Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international operations in Europe through our two European
joint venture investment entities; Simon Ivanhoe
S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe, and Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI. The carrying amount of our total combined investment in these two joint venture investments is $224.2 million
and $361.3 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, including all related components of other comprehensive income. The Operating Partnership has a 50% ownership in Simon
Ivanhoe and a 49% ownership in GCI as of December 31, 2008.   

              On
October 20, 2005, Ivanhoe Cambridge, Inc., or Ivanhoe, an affiliate of Caisse de d p t et placement du Qu bec, effectively
acquired our former partner's 39.5% ownership interest in Simon Ivanhoe. On February 13, 2006, pursuant to the terms of our October 20, 2005 transaction with Ivanhoe, we sold a 10.5%
interest in this joint venture to Ivanhoe for  45.2 million, or $53.9 million, and recorded a gain on the disposition of $34.4 million. This gain is reported in
"gain (loss) on sales of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net" in the 2006 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). We then settled all remaining share
purchase commitments from the company's founders, including the early settlement of some commitments by purchasing an additional 25.8% interest in Simon Ivanhoe for
 55.1 million, or $65.5 million. As a result of these transactions, we and Ivanhoe each own a 50% interest in Simon Ivanhoe at December 31, 2007 and 2008.   

              On
July 5, 2007, Simon Ivanhoe completed the sale of five non-core assets in Poland and we presented our share of the gain upon this disposition in "gain (loss) on
sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income.   

                 Asian Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Japan through joint
ventures with Mitsubishi
Estate Co., Ltd. and Sojitz Corporation. The carrying amount of our investment in these Premium Outlet joint ventures in Japan is $312.6 million and $273.0 million as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, including all related components of other comprehensive income. We have a 40% ownership in these Japan Premium Outlet Centers through a joint venture
arrangement. During 2007, we also completed construction and opened our first Premium Outlet in Korea. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, our investment in our Premium Outlet in
Korea, for which we hold a 50% ownership interest, approximated $18.0 million and $23.1 million including all related components of other comprehensive income.   

              During
2006, we finalized the formation of joint venture arrangements to develop and operate shopping centers in China. The shopping centers will be anchored by Wal-Mart
stores and we own a 32.5% interest in the joint venture entities, and a 32.5% ownership in the management operation overseeing these projects, collectively referred to as Great Mall
Investments, Ltd., or GMI. During 2008, we completed construction and opened our first center in China, and have three additional centers under construction and due for completion in 2009. As
of December 31, 2008 and   

  113  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

2007
respectively, our investment in our centers in China approximated $53.9 million and $33.7 million including all related components of other comprehensive income. Our projected total
equity commitment upon completion for all four centers in China is $53.7 million.   

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments     

Our mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the impact of derivative instruments except for our fair value interest rate swaps, consist of the following as of
December 31:   

114  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)     

General.        At December 31, 2008, we have pledged 76 properties as collateral to secure related
mortgage notes including 7 pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 39 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted package may
constitute a default under all such mortgages and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the collateral package. Of our 76 encumbered properties, indebtedness on 18
of these encumbered properties and our unsecured notes are subject to various financial performance covenants relating to leverage ratios, annual real property appraisal requirements, debt service
coverage ratios, minimum net worth ratios, debt-to-market capitalization, and   /   or minimum equity values. Our mortgages and other
indebtedness may be prepaid but are generally subject to payment of a yield-maintenance premium or defeasance. As of December 31, 2008, we are in compliance with all our debt covenants.   

              Some
of the limited partners guarantee a portion of our consolidated debt through foreclosure guarantees. In total, 53 limited partners provide guarantees of foreclosure of
$285.3 million of our consolidated debt at three consolidated properties. In each case, the loans were made by unrelated third party institutional lenders and the guarantees are for the benefit
of each lender. In the event of foreclosure of the mortgaged property, the proceeds from the sale of the property are first applied against the amount of the guarantee and also reduce the amount
payable under the guarantee. To the extent the sale proceeds from the disposal of the property do not cover the amount of the guarantee, then the limited partner is liable to pay the difference
between the sale proceeds and the amount of the guarantee so that the entire amount guaranteed to the lender is satisfied. The debt is non-recourse to us and our affiliates.   

     Unsecured Debt      

              Our unsecured debt currently consists of $10.7 billion of senior unsecured notes issued by the Operating Partnership and
$1.0 billion outstanding under the Operating Partnership's $3.5 billion Credit Facility, or the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 37.5 basis points and an
additional facility fee of 12.5 basis points. The Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on January 11, 2010, which we can extend for another year at our option.   

              On
May 19, 2008, we issued two tranches of senior unsecured notes totaling $1.5 billion at a weighted average fixed interest rate of 5.74% consisting of a
$700.0 million tranche with a fixed interest rate of 5.30% due May 30, 2013 and a second $800.0 million tranche with a fixed interest rate of 6.125% due May 30, 2018. We
used proceeds from the offering to reduce borrowings on the Credit Facility and for general working capital purposes.   

On
June 16, 2008, the Operating Partnership completed redemption of the $200.0 million outstanding principal amount of its 7% Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities, or
MOPPRS. The redemption was accounted for as an extinguishment and resulted in a charge in the second quarter of 2008 of approximately $20.3 million.   

              On
August 28, 2008, the Operating Partnership repaid a $150.0 million unsecured note, which had a fixed rate of 5.38%.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2008, we drew amounts from the Credit Facility to fund the redemption of the remarketable debt securities and the repayment of the
$150.0 million unsecured note. Other amounts drawn on the Credit Facility were primarily for general working capital purposes. We repaid a total of $2.7 billion on the Credit Facility
during the year ended December 31, 2008. The total outstanding balance of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2008 was $1.0 billion, and the maximum amount outstanding during
the year was approximately $2.6 billion. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the weighted average outstanding balance of the Credit Facility was approximately $1.4 billion.
The amount outstanding as of December 31, 2008 includes $446.3 million in Euro and Yen-denominated borrowings. In addition, subsequent to December 31, 2008, we repaid
$600 million in unsecured notes, consisting of two $300 million tranches that bore rates of 3.75% and 7.13%, respectively, using proceeds from the Credit Facility.   

  115  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

     Secured Debt      

              The balance of fixed and variable rate mortgage notes was $6.3 billion and $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively. Of the 2008 amount, $5.3 billion is nonrecourse to us. The fixed-rate mortgages generally require monthly payments of principal and/or interest. The interest
rates of variable-rate mortgages are typically based on LIBOR. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2008, we repaid $274.0 million in mortgage loans,
unencumbering five properties.   

              On
January 15, 2008, we entered into a swap transaction that effectively converted $300.0 million of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt at a net rate of 3.21%.   

              On
March 6, 2008, we borrowed $705 million on a term loan that matures March 5, 2012 and bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 70 basis points. On May 27,
2008, the loan was increased to $735 million. This loan is secured by the cash flow distributed from six properties and has additional availability of $115 million through the maturity
date.   

              On
July 30, 2008, we borrowed $190.0 million on a loan secured by Philadelphia Premium Outlets, which matures on July 30, 2014 and bears interest at a variable rate
of LIBOR plus 185 basis points. On January 2, 2009, we executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate of this loan at 4.19%.   

              On
September 23, 2008, we borrowed $170.0 million on a term loan that matures September 23, 2013 and bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 195 basis points. On
November 4, 2008, the loan was increased to $220 million and on December 17, 2008, the loan was increased to its maximum availability of $260 million. This is a cross-
collateralized loan that is secured by The Domain, Shops at Arbor Walk, and Palms Crossing. On January 2, 2009, we executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on
$200.0 million of this loan at 4.35%.   

     Debt Maturity and Other      

              Our scheduled principal repayments on indebtedness as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:   

Our
cash paid for interest in each period, net of any amounts capitalized, was as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage
exposure to interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt, or in the
case of a fair value hedge,   

  116  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

effectively
convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. We are also exposed to foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur
on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection
agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. If the anticipated transaction does not occur, the cost is charged to net income. Upon completion of
the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

As
of December 31, 2008, we reflected the fair value of outstanding consolidated derivatives in other liabilities for $19.4 million. In addition, we recorded the benefits
from our treasury lock and interest rate hedge agreements in accumulated other comprehensive loss and the unamortized balance of these agreements is $3.3 million as of December 31, 2008.
The net deficit from terminated swap agreements is also recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss and the unamortized balance is $3.4 million as of December 31, 2008. As of
December 31, 2008, our outstanding LIBOR based derivative contracts consisted of:   

interest rate cap protection agreements with a notional amount of $281.8 million that mature in May 2009 and July
2010, and     
           fixed rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $505.0 million have a weighted average pay rate of 3.29% and a
weighted average receive rate of 2.75%.    

Within
the next year, we expect to reclassify to earnings approximately $10.9 million of loss of the current balance held in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The amount of
ineffectiveness relating to fair value and cash flow hedges recognized in income during the periods presented was not material.   

              Our
joint ventures may also enter into interest rate swaps or caps, which are recorded at fair value on the joint ventures' balance sheet. Included in our accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is our share of the joint ventures accumulated derivative gains or (losses) of $(19.6) million and $(5.8) million, respectively.   

Fair Value of Financial Instruments      

              The carrying value of our variable-rate mortgages and other loans approximates their fair values. We estimate the fair
values of consolidated fixed-rate mortgages using cash flows discounted at current borrowing rates and other indebtedness using cash flows discounted at current market rates. The fair
values of financial instruments and our related discount rate assumptions used in the estimation of fair value for our consolidated fixed-rate mortgages and other indebtedness as of
December 31 is summarized as follows:   

We
estimate the fair values of consolidated fixed-rate unsecured notes using quoted market prices, or, if no quoted market prices are available, we use quoted market prices for
securities with similar terms and maturities.   

  117  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    9. Rentals under Operating Leases     

Future minimum rentals to be received under noncancelable tenant operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter, excluding tenant reimbursements of operating
expenses
and percentage rent based on tenant sales volume as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:   

Approximately
0.6% of future minimum rents to be received are attributable to leases with an affiliate of a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

    10. Capital Stock     

Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify excess common stock into one or more additional classes and series of capital stock, to establish the number of shares in each
class
or series and to fix the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, and qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of such class or
series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of capital stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
control of Simon Property without further action of the stockholders. The ability to issue additional classes or series of capital stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible
acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our
outstanding voting stock.   

              Holders
of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, other than for the election of directors. At the
time of the initial public offering of our predecessor in 1993, the charter of the predecessor gave Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates, or the Simons, the right
to elect four of the members of the Board of Directors, conditioned upon the Simons, or entities they control, maintaining specified levels of equity ownership in Simon Property's predecessor, the
Operating Partnership and all of their subsidiaries. In addition, at that time, Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, acquired 3,200,000 shares of Class B common stock. MSA
placed the Class B common stock into a voting trust under which the Simons were the sole trustees. These voting trustees had the authority to elect the four members of the Board of Directors.
These same arrangements were incorporated into Simon Property's Charter in 1998 during the combination of its predecessor and Corporate Property Investors, Inc. Shares of Class B common
stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the sale or transfer thereof to a person not affiliated with Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon or David Simon. The
Class B shares can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders. At the initial offering we reserved 3,200,000 shares of common stock for the possible conversion of the
outstanding Class B shares. During 2008, the previously outstanding 4,000 Class C shares were converted to 4,000 shares of common stock and the Class C shares were retired.   

Common Stock Issuances and Repurchases      

              In 2008, we issued 2,574,608 shares of common stock to eight limited partners in exchange for an equal number of Units.   

  118  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10. Capital Stock (Continued)    

              We
issued 282,106 shares of common stock related to employee and director stock options exercised during 2008. We used the net proceeds from the option exercises of approximately
$11.9 million to acquire additional Units. The Operating Partnership used the net proceeds for general working capital purposes.   

On
July 26, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of common stock over the next twenty-four months as market conditions
warrant. We may repurchase the shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2008, no purchases were made as part of this program. The program had remaining availability of
approximately $950.7 million at December 31, 2008.   

              Holders
of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock had the right to convert their shares into shares of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2008. A
total of 6,437,072 shares of Series I preferred stock were converted into 5,151,776 shares of common stock for the year then ended.   

     Preferred Stock      

              The following table summarizes the carrying values of each series of preferred stock that was outstanding as of December 31:   

The
following series of preferred stock were previously issued, but had no shares outstanding at the end of 2008 and 2007: Series B 6.5% Convertible Preferred Stock (5,000,000
shares); Series C 7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (2,700,000 shares); Series D 8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (2,700,000 shares); Series E 8.00%
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (1,000,000 shares); Series F 8.75% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (8,000,000 shares); Series G 7.89% Cumulative Step-Up
Premium Rate Preferred Stock (3,000,000 shares); and Series H Variable Rate Preferred Stock (4,530,000 shares), Series K Variable Rate Redeemable Preferred Stock (8,000,000 shares); and
Series L Variable Rate Redeemable Preferred Stock (6,000,000 shares).   

              Dividends
on all series of preferred stock are calculated based upon the preferred stock's preferred return multiplied by the preferred stock's corresponding liquidation value. The
Operating Partnership pays preferred distributions to us equal to the dividends we pay on the preferred stock issued.   

                 Series C 7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D 8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        We issued these two
series of preferred stock in 1999 to facilitate the possible conversion of two related series of preferred units described below, 7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Units and the 8.00% Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units. Each of these series of preferred stock has terms that are substantially identical to the related series of preferred units. There are no shares of either series currently
outstanding.   

                 Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.        This series of preferred stock was issued in
connection with our acquisition of Chelsea
Property Group in 2004. The terms of this series of preferred stock are substantially identical to those of the related series of 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units described
below. During 2008, holders exchanged 22,400 preferred units for an equal number of shares of preferred stock. In prior years, 1,093,042 preferred units had been exchanged for an equal number of
shares of preferred stock. Dividends accrue quarterly at an annual rate of 6% per share. On or after October 14, 2009, we can redeem the preferred stock, in whole or in part, for cash   

  119  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10. Capital Stock (Continued)    

only
equal to the liquidation preference ($50.00 per share) plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. However, if the redemption date falls between the record date and the preferred stock dividend
payment date, the redemption price will be the liquidation preference only. The redemption may occur only if, for 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the trading
day before notice of redemption is issued, the closing price per share of the common stock exceeds 130% of the applicable redemption price. This series of preferred stock is also convertible into
common stock by the holder upon the occurrence of a conversion triggering event. A conversion triggering event includes the following: (a) if we call the preferred stock for redemption; or,
(b) if we are a party to a consolidation, merger, share exchange, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets; or, (c) if during any fiscal quarter after the fiscal quarter ending
December 31, 2004, the closing sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days in a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal
quarter exceeds 125% of the applicable conversion price. If the closing trigger price condition is not met at the end of any quarter, then conversions are not permitted in the following quarter.   

As
of December 31, 2008, the conversion trigger price of $77.88 was not met and as a result conversion of each share of this series of preferred stock into shares of common stock
is not permitted through March 31, 2009. A total of 6,437,072 shares of preferred stock were converted into 5,151,776 shares of common stock during 2008 as the conversion trigger price was met
at the quarterly determination dates during 2008.   

                 Series J 8 3 / 8 % Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        We issued this
series of preferred stock in 2004 to replace a series of
Chelsea preferred stock. Dividends accrue quarterly at an annual rate of 8 3 / 8 % per share. We can redeem this series, in whole or in part, on and after October 15, 2027 at a
redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. This preferred stock was issued at a premium of $7,553 as of the date of our acquisition of Chelsea.   

     Limited Partners' Preferred Interests in the Operating Partnership      

The following table summarizes each series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership outstanding as of December 31:   

6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues
cumulative quarterly distributions at $3.00 per
unit. The preferred units are exchangeable for shares of Series I preferred stock on a one for one basis. In 2008, holders exchanged 22,400 preferred units of this series for an equal number of
shares of Series I preferred stock. Additionally, 1,493,904 preferred units were converted into 1,187,238 common units. The preferred units have terms that are substantially identical to the
Series I preferred stock.   

  120  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10. Capital Stock (Continued)    

                 7.75%/8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative
quarterly distributions at a rate of 8.00% of
the liquidation value through December 31, 2009, 10.00% of the liquidation value for the period beginning January 1, 2010 and ending December 31, 2010, and 12% of the liquidation
value thereafter. A holder may require the Operating Partnership to repurchase the preferred units on or after January 1, 2009, or any time that the aggregate liquidation value of the
outstanding preferred units exceeds 10% of the book value of partners' equity of the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred units on or after January 1, 2011,
or earlier upon the occurrence of certain tax triggering events. The Operating Partnership intends to redeem these units after January 1, 2009, upon the occurrence of a tax triggering event.
The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable in cash or an interest in one or more properties mutually agreed upon.   

                 7.50% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $7.50 annually.
The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred units on or after November 10, 2013, unless there is the occurrence of certain tax triggering events such as death of the initial holder, or
the transfer of any units to any person or entity other than the persons or entities entitled to the benefits of the original holder. The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per
preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable either in cash or shares of our common stock at our election. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, the
occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to the holder, or on or after November 10, 2006, the holder may require the Operating Partnership to redeem the preferred units at the
same redemption price payable at the option of the Operating Partnership in either cash or shares of common stock.   

7.00% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $1.96 annually.
The preferred units are convertible at the holders' option on or after August 27, 2004, into either an equal number of shares of Series C preferred stock or Units of the Operating
Partnership at a ratio of 0.75676 Units to each preferred unit provided that the closing stock price of the common stock exceeds $37.00 for any three consecutive trading days prior to the conversion
date. The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred Units at their liquidation value ($28.00 per unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions on or after August 27, 2009, by issuing Units.
In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, or the occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to a holder, the Operating Partnership may be required to redeem the
preferred units at the liquidation value payable at the option of the Operating Partnership in either cash or shares of common stock. During 2008, holders converted 6,583 preferred units into 4,981
Units.   

                 8.00% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $2.40 annually.
The preferred units are paired with one 7.00% preferred unit or with the number of Units into which the 7.00% preferred units may be converted. The Operating Partnership may redeem
the preferred units at their liquidation value ($30.00 per preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions on or after August 27, 2009, payable in either a new series of preferred units
having the same terms as the preferred units, except that the distribution rate would be reset to a then determined market rate, or in Units. The preferred units are convertible at the holders' option
on or after August 27, 2004, into shares of Series D preferred stock or Units. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, or the occurrence of certain tax triggering
events applicable to a holder, the Operating Partnership may be required to redeem the preferred units owned by such holder at their liquidation value payable at the option of the Operating
Partnership in either cash or shares of common stock. During 2008, 61,493 of the preferred units were redeemed for $1.8 million in cash.   

Notes Receivable from Former CPI Stockholders.        Notes receivable of $17,199 from stockholders of an entity,
 are reflected as a deduction from capital
in excess of par value in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity in the accompanying financial statements. The notes do not bear interest and become due at the time the underlying shares
are sold.   

  121  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10. Capital Stock (Continued)    

The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.        This plan, or the 1998 plan, provides for the grant
of equity-based awards in the form of options
to purchase shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock grants and performance unit awards. Options may be granted which are qualified as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Code and options which are not so qualified. An aggregate of 11,300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1998 plan. Additionally, the
partnership agreement requires us to sell shares of common stock to the Operating Partnership, at fair value, sufficient to satisfy the exercising of any stock options, and for us to purchase Units
for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares.   

Administration.        The 1998 plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The committee determines which eligible
individuals may participate and the type, extent and terms of the awards to be granted to them. In addition, the committee interprets the 1998 plan and makes all other determinations deemed advisable
for its administration. Options granted to employees become exercisable over the period determined by the committee. The exercise price of an employee option may not be less than the fair market value
of the shares on the date of grant. Employee options generally vest over a three-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. Since 2001, we have not granted any options to
employees, except for a series of reload options we assumed as part of a prior business combination.   

                 Automatic Awards For Eligible Directors.        Directors who are not also our employees or employees of our
affiliates receive automatic awards under the
1998 plan. Until 2003, these awards took the form of stock options. Since then, the awards have been shares of restricted stock. Currently, each eligible director receives on the first day of the
first calendar month following his or her initial election an award of restricted stock with a value of $82,500 (pro-rated for partial years of service). Thereafter, as of the date of each
annual meeting of stockholders, eligible directors who are re-elected receive an award of restricted stock having a value of $82,500. In addition, eligible directors who serve as
chairpersons of the standing committees (excluding the Executive Committee) receive an additional annual award of restricted stock having a value of $10,000 (in the case of the Audit Committee) or
$7,500 (in the case of all other standing committees). The Lead Director also receives an annual restricted stock award having a value of $12,500. The restricted stock vests in full after one year.   

              Once
vested, the delivery of the shares of restricted stock (including reinvested dividends) is deferred under our Director Deferred Compensation Plan until the director retires, dies
or becomes disabled or otherwise no longer serves as a director. The directors may vote and are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares; however, any dividends on the shares of
restricted stock must be reinvested in shares of common stock and held in the deferred compensation plan until the shares of a restricted stock are delivered to the former director.   

              In
addition to automatic awards, eligible directors may be granted discretionary awards under the 1998 plan.   

                 Restricted Stock.        The 1998 plan also provides for shares of restricted stock to be granted to certain
employees at no cost to those employees,
subject to achievement of certain financial and return-based performance measures established by the committee related to the most recent year's performance. Once granted, the shares of restricted
stock then vest annually over a four-year period (25% each year) beginning on January 1 of each year. The cost of restricted stock grants, which is based upon the stock's fair
market value on the grant date, is charged to earnings ratably over the vesting period. Through December 31, 2008 a total of 4,738,409 shares of restricted stock, net of   

  122  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

10. Capital Stock (Continued)    

forfeitures,
have been awarded under the plan. Information regarding restricted stock awards are summarized in the following table for each of the years presented:   

The
weighted average life of our outstanding options as of December 31, 2008 is 2.3 years. Information relating to Director Options and Employee Options from
December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2008 is as follows:   

We also maintain a tax-qualified retirement 401(k) savings plan and offer no other postretirement or post employment benefits to our
employees.   

  123  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    10. Capital Stock (Continued)     

Exchange Rights      

              Limited partners in the Operating Partnership have the right to exchange all or any portion of their Units for shares of common stock
on a one-for-one basis or cash, as determined by the Board of Directors. The amount of cash to be paid if the exchange right is exercised and the cash option is selected will
be based on the trading price of our common stock at that time. At December 31, 2008, we had reserved 68,190,138 shares of common stock for possible issuance upon the exchange of Units,
options, and Class B common stock and certain convertible preferred stock.   

Common Stock Dividends      

              On January 30, 2009, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.90 per share, to be paid in a
combination of cash and shares of our common stock. While our stockholders will have the right to elect to receive their dividend in either cash or common stock, we have announced that the aggregate
cash component of the dividend will not exceed 10% of the total dividend, or $0.09 per share. If the number of stockholders electing to receive cash would result in our payment of cash in excess of
this 10% limitation, we will allocate the cash payment on a pro rata basis among those stockholders making the cash election. We have reserved the right to elect to pay this dividend all in cash. Our
Board of Directors reviews and approves dividends on a quarterly basis, and no determination has been made about whether our remaining 2009 dividends will be paid in a similar combination of cash and
common stock. Paying all or a portion of the 2009 dividend in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock allows us to satisfy our REIT taxable income distribution requirement under existing
IRS revenue procedures, while enhancing our financial flexibility and balance sheet strength.   

    11. Commitments and Contingencies     

Litigation      

              As previously disclosed, for several years we have been defending actions brought by the Attorneys General of Massachusetts, New
Hampshire and Connecticut in their respective state courts and similar litigation brought by other parties alleging that the sale of co-branded, bank-issued gift cards by our
affiliate, SPGGC, Inc., at certain of our properties, violated state gift certificate and consumer protection laws. We previously reported the dismissal of the New Hampshire litigation. During
the fourth quarter of 2008, the complaint in the Massachusetts litigation was dismissed and we settled the Connecticut litigation. The only remaining legal proceedings involving gift card sales are
two purported class actions brought by private parties in New York. With the resolution of the remaining Attorneys General's actions in 2008, we no longer believe that the ultimate outcome of
these related actions would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and, accordingly, we do not expect to report further developments in these
actions.   

              We
are also involved in various other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business. We believe that such litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will
not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.   

     Lease Commitments      

              As of December 31, 2008, a total of 29 of the consolidated properties are subject to ground leases. The termination dates of
these ground leases range from 2009 to 2090. These ground leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments, or a fixed annual rental plus a percentage rent component based upon the
revenues or   

  124  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

11. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

total
sales of the property. Some of these leases also include escalation clauses and renewal options. We incurred ground lease expense included in other expense as follows:   

Future
minimum lease payments due under these ground leases for years ending December 31, excluding applicable extension options, are as follows:   

Insurance      

              We maintain commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the
United States through wholly-owned captive insurance entities and other self-insurance mechanisms. Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd. are our
wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries, and have agreed to indemnify our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses for the properties that are covered under these arrangements. The
carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through these captive insurance
entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion per
occurrence for certified foreign acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for non-certified domestic acts of terrorism. The current federal laws which provide this coverage
are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks in high profile markets could adversely affect our property values,
revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

     Guarantees of Indebtedness      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by the joint venture property, which is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2008, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees and other guarantee obligations of $71.9 million and $6.6 million,
respectively, to support our total $6.6 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness in the event the joint venture partnership defaults under the terms of the underlying
arrangement. Mortgages which are guaranteed by us are secured by the property of the joint venture and that property could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding obligation.   

  125  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    11. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

     Concentration of Credit Risk      

              We are subject to risks incidental to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate. These risks include, among others, the
risks normally associated with changes in the general economic climate, trends in the retail industry, creditworthiness of tenants, competition for tenants and customers, changes in tax laws, interest
rate and foreign currency levels, the availability of financing, and potential liability under environmental and other laws. Our regional malls, Premium Outlet Centers, The Mills, and
community/lifestyle centers rely heavily upon anchor tenants like most retail properties. Four retailers occupied 532 of the approximately 1,376 anchor stores in the properties as of
December 31, 2008. An affiliate of one of these retailers is a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

     Limited Life Partnerships      

              FASB Statement No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity"
(SFAS 150) establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. It requires that an issuer classify
a financial instrument that is within its scope as a liability. The effective date of a portion of the Statement has been indefinitely postponed by the FASB. We have certain transactions,
arrangements, or financial instruments that have been identified that appear to meet the criteria for liability recognition in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 under SFAS 150 due to
the finite life of certain joint venture arrangements. However, SFAS 150 requires disclosure of the estimated settlement value of these non-controlling interests. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the estimated settlement value of these non-controlling interests was approximately $130 million and $145 million, respectively. The
minority interest amount recognized as a liability on the consolidated balance sheets related to these non-controlling interests was approximately $23 million as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007.   

    12. Related Party Transactions     

Our management company provides management, insurance, and other services to Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc.,
a related party, and other non-owned properties. Amounts for services provided by our management company and its affiliates to our unconsolidated joint ventures and other related parties
were as follows:   

During
2008 and 2007, we recorded interest income of $15.3 million and $39.1 million, respectively, and financing fee income of $3.1 million and
$17.4 million, respectively, net of inter-entity eliminations, related to the loans that we have provided to Mills and SPG-FCM and lending financing services to those entities and
the properties in which they hold an ownership interest.   

    13. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements     

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations", (SFAS 141(R)), and SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements"(SFAS 160). SFAS 141(R) requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair
values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired, and that costs of acquisition be expensed as incurred. SFAS 160 clarifies that a
noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated balance sheet and the noncontrolling interest's share of earnings is included in consolidated net income. The
calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 are effective for financial statements issued for   

  126  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    13. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements (Continued)    

fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 141(R) or SFAS 160 will have a significant impact on our
results of operations or financial position other than the reclassification of certain noncontrolling interests on a prospective and retrospective basis.   

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133."
This statement amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS 133. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within
those fiscal years. We are in the process of determining the impact of adopting this statement.   

    14. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     

Quarterly 2008 and 2007 data is summarized in the table below and, as disclosed in Note 3, the amounts have been reclassified from previously disclosed amounts in accordance
with
the discontinued operations provisions of SFAS No. 144 and reflect dispositions through December 31, 2008. Income from continuing operations, income from continuing operations per
share   Basic, and income from continuing operations per share   Diluted as previously reported in the September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q were
$179,253, $0.74, and $0.74, respectively, and are presented below as $186,345, $0.77, and $0.77, respectively. All other amounts previously reported are equal to the amounts reported below. Quarterly
amounts may not equal annual amounts due to rounding.   

127  

10-K
 2
 a2190804zf1_10-k.pdf
 10-K PDF

<EX-21.1>
 3
 a2190804zex-21_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 21.1     

    List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property     

Subsidiary

Jurisdiction    

Simon Property Group, L.P.  
     
  Delaware  

The Retail Property Trust  
     
  Massachusetts  

Simon Property Group (Illinois), L.P.  
     
  Illinois  

Simon Property Group (Texas), L.P.  
     
  Texas  

Shopping Center Associates  
     
  New York  

Simon Capital Limited Partnership  
     
  Delaware  

M.S. Management Associates, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd.  
     
  Bermuda  

Marigold Indemnity, Ltd.  
     
  Delaware  

Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
  Bermuda  

Simon Business Network, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Brand Ventures, LLC  
     
  Indiana  

Simon Global Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

Simon Services, Inc.  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.  
     
  Delaware  

SPGGC, LLC  
     
  Virginia  

Kravco Simon Investments, L.P.  
     
  Pennsylvania  

SPG ML Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates II, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

CPG Partners, L.P.  
     
  Delaware  

Omits names of subsidiaries that as of December 31, 2008 were not, in the aggregate, a "significant subsidiary."   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 a2190804zf3_ex-211.pdf
 EXHIBIT 21.1 PDF

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 a2190804zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 23.1     

    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

              We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. of our reports dated February 25, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders of Simon Property Group, Inc.   

              Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of Simon
Property Group, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 25, 2009, the financial statement
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-132513) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-118427) of Simon Property Group, Inc;
      (3)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101185) pertaining to the Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-82471) pertaining to the Simon Property Group and Adopting Entities Matching
Savings Plan;
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63919) pertaining to the Corporate Property Investors, Inc. and
Corporate Realty Consultants, Inc. Employee Share Purchase Plan;    

of
our reports dated February 25, 2009, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries and our report dated February 25,
2009, with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, both incorporated by reference herein, and our report
included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Simon Property Group, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 a2190804zf5_ex-231.pdf
 EXHIBIT 23.1 PDF

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 a2190804zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1     

    Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

          I, David Simon, certify that:   

          1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;   

2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

          3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:   

a.     Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

          b.     Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

          c.     Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

d.     Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

a.     All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

          b.     Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

Date: February 26, 2009  

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 a2190804zf7_ex-311.pdf
 EXHIBIT 31.1 PDF

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 a2190804zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2     

    Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

I,
Stephen E. Sterrett, certify that:   

          1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;   

          2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

          3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

          4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) for
the registrant and have:   

a.     Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

          b.     Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

          c.     Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

          d.     Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

a.     All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

          b.     Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

Date: February 26, 2009  

/s/   STEPHEN E. STERRETT   

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a2190804zf9_ex-312.pdf
 EXHIBIT 31.2 PDF

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 a2190804zex-32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

Exhibit 32     

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

              In
connection with the Annual Report of Simon Property Group, Inc. ("Simon Property"), on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008 as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of the undersigned, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to
  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Simon Property.    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
February 26, 2009  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
February 26, 2009  

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 12
 a2190804zf11_ex-32.pdf
 EXHIBIT 32 PDF

</EX-32>

