<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_1063761_0001047469-11-001321_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>29908921</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>330719</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4910393</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2202281</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7304060</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>14527744</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>88</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>22</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-11-001321.hdr.sgml : 20110225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110225060314
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-11-001321
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001063761
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				046268599
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14469
		FILM NUMBER:		11638374

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438
		BUSINESS PHONE:		317-636-1600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FvK/2Y/dPOSBJPgYbbxOvkVat5F10pDBDa3u8wE8Nj2IkZtCoAJafVk1F8oK+k5w
 0sNQtUohr23Zeaxju1RqmQ==

 0001047469-11-001321.txt : 20110225

10-K
 1
 a2202046z10-k.htm
 10-K

Table of Contents    

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934     

  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

225 West Washington Street 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204      (Address of principal executive offices) (ZIP Code)   

   (317) 636-1600      (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Title of each class

Name of each exchange 
on which registered

Common stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $0.0001 par value  
     
   New York Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act). Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

              Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller company. See
the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer        (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the
Act). Yes        No       

              The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $23,170 million based on the
closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2010.   

As
of January 31, 2011, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 296,958,538 and 8,000 shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding, respectively.   

Documents Incorporated By Reference     

              Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV; and portions of the Registrant's Proxy
Statement in connection with its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.   

Table of Contents    

         Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Annual Report on Form 10-K 
December 31, 2010     

    TABLE OF CONTENTS     

Item No.

Page No.    

Part I    

1.   
     
        Business   

3   

1A.   
     
        Risk Factors   

8   

1B.   
     
        Unresolved Staff Comments   

12   

2.   
     
        Properties   

13   

3.   
     
        Legal Proceedings   

45   

4.   
     
        [Removed and Reserved.]   

45   

Part II    

5.   
     
        Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

46   

6.   
     
        Selected Financial Data   

47   

7.   
     
        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   

47   

7A.   
     
        Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk   

47   

8.   
     
        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

47   

9.   
     
        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure   

47   

9A.   
     
        Controls and Procedures   

47   

9B.   
     
        Other Information   

47   

Part III    

10.   
     
        Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance   

48   

11.   
     
        Executive Compensation   

48   

12.   
     
        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters   

48   

13.   
     
        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director
Independence   

48   

14.   
     
        Principal Accountant Fees and Services   

48   

Part IV    

15.   
     
        Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules   

49   

Signatures   

50   

2  

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1.    Business            

              Simon Property Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership
subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties. In this report, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or held an interest in 338 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 161 regional malls, 58 Premium Outlets, 66
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation and 17 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the
36 properties in The Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. Internationally, as of December 31, 2010, we had ownership
interests in 45 European shopping centers in Italy, eight Premium Outlets in Japan, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in South Korea. On July 15, 2010, we and
our joint venture partner sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe, which owned seven shopping centers located in France and Poland.   

For
a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2010, see the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" section of the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

    Other Policies     

              The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect
to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

Investment Policies      

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may invest in equity or debt securities of other entities engaged in real estate
activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification. These
REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75% of our total assets. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income must be derived
directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in certain circumstances,
interest from certain types of temporary investments. At least 95% of our income must be derived from such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or
dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.   

              Subject
to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be
in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire
all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

Financing Policies      

We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our ratio of debt to total assets or market value,
as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership's line of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the
Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements
contain other covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for
our equity securities and the debt securities of the Operating Partnership. We strive to maintain investment grade ratings at all times, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so.   

  3  

Table of Contents   

              If
our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital by offering equity or debt securities, creating joint ventures with existing ownership
interests in properties, retaining cash flows or a combination of these methods. Our ability to retain cash flows is limited by the requirement for REITs to distribute at least 90% of their taxable
income. We must also take into account taxes that would be imposed on undistributed taxable income. If the Board of Directors determines to raise additional equity capital, it may, without stockholder
approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any manner and on such terms
and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also may include additional classes of preferred stock,
which may be convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our securities. Any such offering could dilute a
stockholder's investment in us.   

              We
expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating
Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be
secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by the Operating
Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly be required to do so.   

              The
Operating Partnership has a $3.9 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility has an accordion feature allowing the maximum
borrowing capacity to expand to $4.0 billion. We issue debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may issue our debt securities which may be convertible into capital stock or be
accompanied by warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables. The proceeds from any borrowings or financings may be used for one or more of the
following:   

financing acquisitions;     
           developing or redeveloping properties;     
           refinancing existing indebtedness;     
           working capital or capital improvements; or     
           meeting the taxable income distribution requirements applicable to REITs, if we have taxable income without the receipt of
cash sufficient to enable us to meet such distribution requirements.    

We
may also finance acquisitions through the following:   

issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock;     
           issuance of additional units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units;    
           issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;     
           issuance of other securities; or     
           sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.    

The
ability of the Operating Partnership to issue units to transferors of properties or other partnership interests may permit the transferor to defer gain recognition for tax purposes.
It may also be advantageous for us since there are ownership limits that restrict the number of shares of our capital stock that investors may own.   

              We
do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional
indebtedness on such properties. We also have covenants on our unsecured debt that limit our total secured debt.   

Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a
single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage interest on the property in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture with a third party,
or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities, which are common in the real estate industry, are
structured so that they would not be consolidated in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a parent company. We decide   

  4  

Table of Contents   

upon
the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we
include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

Conflict of Interest Policies      

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted
governance principles governing the function, conduct, selection, orientation and duties of our Board of Directors and the Company, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of
the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees. At least a majority of the members of our Board of
Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards for New York Stock Exchange companies and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are significant stockholders and/or
unitholders in the Operating Partnership. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must be
approved by a majority of our non-affiliated directors.   

              The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons and/or other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to
avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property and the Simons, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to sell
any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by each of the Simons contain covenants limiting the ability of the
Simons to participate in certain shopping center activities in North America.   

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities      

We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT, unless the Board of Directors determines that it
is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have
authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may
issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us
from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate.   

    Competition     

              The retail industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels including regional malls,
outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. Internet retailing sites and catalogs also provide retailers with distribution options beyond
existing brick and mortar retail properties. The existence of competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents we can obtain. This
results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including land for development and operating properties).
We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers including:   

the quality, location and diversity of our properties;     
           our management and operational expertise;     
           our extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders;     
           our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances; and    

Certain Activities     

              During the past three years, we have:   

issued 4,688,722 shares of common stock upon the exchange of units of limited partnership interest of the Operating
Partnership;    
 
  5  

Table of Contents   

issued 647,825 restricted shares of common stock, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan, or the 1998 Plan;     
           issued 642,639 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under the 1998 Plan;     
           issued 11,822,365 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 14,308,348 shares of Series I 6% Convertible
Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred stock;     
           redeemed 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock;     
           issued 11,876,076 shares of common stock as part of quarterly dividends in 2009 to common stockholders;    
           issued 23,000,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $50.00 per share;    
           issued 17,250,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $31.50 per share;    
           issued 523,291 shares of Series I preferred stock upon the exchange of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Units, or Series I preferred units;     
           issued 4,000 shares of common stock upon conversion and retirement of all 4,000 shares of Class C common stock;    
           entered into our Credit Facility on December 8, 2009 which has a borrowing capacity of $3.9 billion and
contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing capacity to expand to $4.0 billion;     
           borrowed a maximum amount of $862.2 million under the Credit Facility; the outstanding amount of borrowings under
this facility as of December 31, 2010 was $858.6 million, of which $273.6 million was related to the U.S. dollar equivalent of Yen-denominated borrowings;    
           provided annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and
quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders;     
           not made loans to other entities or persons, including our officers and directors, other than to certain joint venture
properties;     
           not invested in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control, other than the Operating
Partnership, certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and to acquire indirect interests in real estate;     
           not underwritten securities of other issuers; and     
           not engaged in the purchase and sale or turnover of investments for the purpose of trading.    

Employees     

              At December 31, 2010, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,900 persons at various properties and offices throughout
the United States, of which approximately 2,400 were part-time. Approximately 1,000 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana and 100 were
located at our Premium Outlets offices in Roseland, New Jersey.   

    Corporate Headquarters     

              Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is
(317) 636-1600.   

    Available Information     

              We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or
Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed
with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are
available or may be accessed free of charge through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we   

  6  

Table of Contents   

electronically
file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.   

              The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance" section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and
Nominating Committee Charter, and Executive Committee Charter.   

              In
addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE.   

Executive Officers of the Registrant     

              The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of December 31, 2010.   

Name

Age    
     
   Position    

David Simon  

49  
     
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard S. Sokolov  

61  
     
  President and Chief Operating Officer  

Gary L. Lewis  

52  
     
  Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing  

Stephen E. Sterrett  

55  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

John Rulli  

54  
     
  Executive Vice President and President   Simon Management Group  

James M. Barkley  

59  
     
  General Counsel; Secretary  

Andrew A. Juster  

58  
     
  Executive Vice President and Treasurer  

Steven K. Broadwater  

44  
     
  Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

The
executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. For biographical information of David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E. Sterrett,
James M. Barkley and John Rulli, see Item 10 of this report.   

              Mr. Lewis
is the Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing of Simon Property. Mr. Lewis joined Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, in
1986 and held various positions with MSA and Simon Property prior to becoming Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing. In 2002 he was appointed to Executive Vice
President Leasing and in 2007 he became Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing.   

              Mr. Juster
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and Treasurer. He joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has
held various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008.   

              Mr. Broadwater
serves as Simon Property's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater
joined Simon Property in 2004 and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.   

  7  

Table of Contents    

Item 1A.    Risk Factors            

                 The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should
not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties and we may update them in our future periodic reports.   

Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets      

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.      

As of December 31, 2010, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the related premium and discount, totaled
$17.5 billion. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our
debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property.
Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from this is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the
property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

Disruption in the credit markets or downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service
requirements.      

We depend primarily on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can
meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. We cannot assure
you that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.      

Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The
credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and
the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund
our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.      

We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a
portion of our variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful.   

              Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.   

    Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations     

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties.      

We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to
various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not
perform   

  8  

Table of Contents   

  as
well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:   

construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;    
           we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans on favorable terms, if at all;    
           we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;     
           occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and    
           we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those
consents may be withheld.    

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.      

Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a
result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a property, we cannot
assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.   

    Environmental Risks     

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.      

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous
owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose
liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or
removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the
air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain,
or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs
of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The
presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.      

Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These
environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
However, we cannot assure you that:   

existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;    
           any previous owner, occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;    
           the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of
nearby properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or    
 
  9  

Table of Contents   

future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the
interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.    

Retail Operations Risks     

Overall economic conditions may adversely affect the general retail environment.      

Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally,
including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence,
casualties and other natural disasters, and the potential for terrorist activities. The economy and consumer spending appear to be recovering from the effects of the recent recession. We derive our
cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom have been and continue to be under some degree of economic stress. A significant deterioration in our cash flow from operations
could require us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing.   

We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at existing properties.      

We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.
Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than
the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected.   

Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these
tenants.      

Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our
properties could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store
and larger store, also referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We do not control the
disposition of those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be
entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges.
Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline
significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or
anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.   

We face potential adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies.      

Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur regularly in the course of our operations. We continually seek to re-lease vacant
spaces resulting from tenant terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant
bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy.   

    Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties     

We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance
them.      

As of December 31, 2010, we owned interests in 175 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 19 properties are
included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 156 properties under the equity method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture properties. We serve as general
partner or property manager for 92 of these 156 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as selling or refinancing these properties, require the consent of the other owners. Of the
properties for which we do not serve as general partner or property manager, 55 are in our international joint ventures. The other owners also have other participating rights that   

  10  

Table of Contents   

  we
consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our
ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.      

Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property. As of
December 31, 2010, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees to support $60.7 million of our total $6.6 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness. A
default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit.   

Other Factors Affecting Our Business     

Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.      

CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services,
administrative, property and liability insurance costs, and
security costs. We historically have used leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. We have made a concerted effort to convert our leases to a fixed payment
methodology which fixes our tenants' CAM contributions and should in turn reduce the volatility of and limitations on the recoveries we collect from our tenants for the reimbursement of our property
operating expenses. However, with respect to both variable and fixed payment methodologies, the amount of CAM charges we bill to our tenants may not allow us to recover all of these operating costs.   

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.      

Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retailing such as catalogs and e-commerce websites.
Competition may come from regional malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers, both existing as well as future development projects. The presence of competitive
alternatives affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. New construction, renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect our properties.   

              We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified
management.   

Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.      

We hold interests in joint venture properties that operate in Italy, Japan, Korea, and Mexico, and an interest in a joint venture
property under development in Malaysia. We have a minority investment in two U.K. real estate companies. We may pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States. International
development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks include:   

adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;     
           changes in foreign political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally;     
           challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and
litigation;     
           differing lending practices;     
           differences in cultures;     
           changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;     
           difficulties in managing international operations; and     
           obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.    

Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented approximately 5.0% of the GLA of all of our
properties at December 31, 2010), to the extent   

  11  

Table of Contents   

that
we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.      

We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd., and other financial arrangements
controlled
by us. The third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written through
our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue it could generate.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The
current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate
could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

    Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes     

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT.      

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the
Internal Revenue Code. We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner which allows us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We intend to continue to operate in
this manner. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of
stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. REIT qualification is governed by highly technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited
judicial or administrative interpretations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.   

              If
we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or ultimately to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief
provisions do not apply:   

we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;    
           we will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates; and     
           unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.     

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments            

              None.   

  12  

Table of Contents    

Item 2.    Properties            

United States Properties      

Our U.S. properties primarily consist of regional malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, community/lifestyle centers, and other properties.
These properties contain an aggregate of approximately 250.5 million square feet of gross leasable area, or GLA, of which we own approximately 159.5 million square feet. Total estimated
retail sales at the properties in 2010 were approximately $62 billion.   

              Regional
malls typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores connecting the
anchors. Additional stores are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 161 regional malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size from approximately 400,000 to
2.4 million square feet of GLA. Our regional malls contain in the aggregate more than 18,300 occupied stores, including approximately 709 anchors, which are mostly national retailers. For
comparative purposes, we separate the information in this section on the 16 regional malls acquired from The Mills Corporation in 2007, or the Mills Regional Malls, from the information on our other
regional malls.   

              Premium
Outlets generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores located in open-air centers. Our 58 Premium Outlets range in size from approximately
150,000 to 850,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlets are generally located near major metropolitan areas and tourist destinations including New York City, Los Angeles, Boston, Palm Springs,
Orlando, Las Vegas, and Honolulu.   

              The
Mills generally range in size from 1.0 million to 2.3 million square feet of GLA and are located in major metropolitan areas. They have a combination of traditional
mall, outlet center, and big box retailers and entertainment uses. The Mills Regional Malls typically range in size from 800,000 to 1.3 million square feet of GLA and contain a wide variety of
national retailers.   

              Community/lifestyle
centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than our regional malls. Our 66 community/lifestyle centers generally range in size from approximately 100,000 to
950,000 square feet of GLA. Community/lifestyle centers are designed to serve a larger trade area and typically contain anchor stores and other national retail tenants, which occupy a significant
portion of the GLA of the center. We also own traditional community shopping centers that focus primarily on value-oriented and convenience goods and services. These centers are usually anchored by a
supermarket, discount retailer, or drugstore and are designed to service a neighborhood area. Finally, we own open-air centers adjacent to our regional malls designed to take advantage of
the drawing power of the mall.   

              We
also have interests in 17 other shopping centers or outlet centers. These properties range in size from approximately 85,000 to 1.0 million square feet of GLA, are considered
non-core to our business model, and in total represent less than 1% of our total operating income before depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2010, approximately 94.2% of the owned GLA in regional malls and Premium Outlets and the retail space of the other properties was leased, approximately 93.7%
of the owned GLA for The Mills and 90.4% of owned GLA for the Mills Regional Malls was leased, and approximately 91.6% of owned GLA in the community/lifestyle centers was leased.   

We
hold a 100% interest in 218 of our properties, effectively control 19 properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 101 properties through
unconsolidated joint venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 329 properties. Substantially all of our joint venture properties are subject to
rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale rights for all partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry. Our partners in our joint
ventures may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions) which will result in either the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire their partnership
interest or the disposal of our partnership interest.   

The
following property table summarizes certain data for our regional malls and Premium Outlets, The Mills, the Mills Regional Malls and community/lifestyle centers located in the
United States, including Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2010.   

  13  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

14  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

15  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

16  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

17  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

18  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

19  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

20  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

21  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

11.  
     
   Clinton Crossing Premium Outlets  
     
   CT  
     
   Clinton  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.4  
  %  
     
   276,175  
     
   Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger  

12.  
     
   Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets  
     
   OR  
     
   Troutdale (Portland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

95.8  
  %  
     
   163,679  
     
   Adidas, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Guess, Levi's, Tommy Hilfiger  

13.  
     
   Desert Hills Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Cabazon (Palm Springs)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.9  
  %  
     
   501,722  
     
   Burberry, Coach, Dior, Elie Tahari, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, True Religion, Yves Saint Laurent, Zegna  

14.  
     
   Edinburgh Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Edinburgh (Indianapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.0  
  %  
     
   377,703  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

15.  
     
   Ellenton Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Ellenton  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

98.8  
  %  
     
   476,538  
     
   Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Kate Spade, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th  

16.  
     
   Folsom Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Folsom (Sacramento)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.8  
  %  
     
   295,994  
     
   BCBG Max Azria, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Nautica, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

17.  
     
   Gaffney Premium Outlets  
     
   SC  
     
   Gaffney  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

96.1  
  %  
     
   359,437  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

18.  
     
   Gilroy Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Gilroy (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.1  
  %  
     
   577,856  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Hugo Boss, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

19.  
     
   Grove City Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Grove City  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

97.9  
  %  
     
   531,720  
     
   American Eagle, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

20.  
     
   Gulfport Premium Outlets  
     
   MS  
     
   Gulfport  
     
   Ground Lease (2034)  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

93.0  
  %  
     
   302,899  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Jones New York, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

21.  
     
   Hagerstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Hagerstown  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

96.2  
  %  
     
   484,926  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J. Crew, Kate Spade, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

22.  
     
   Houston Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Cypress (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2008  

99.4  
  %  
     
   536,452  
     
   Ann Taylor, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, J. Crew, Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue off 5th,
Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch  

23.  
     
   Jackson Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Jackson (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.9  
  %  
     
   285,766  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

24.  
     
   Jersey Shore Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Tinton Falls (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2008  

97.0  
  %  
     
   434,430  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Brooks Brothers, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Guess, J. Crew, Kate Spade, Michael Kors, Theory, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour  

25.  
     
   Johnson Creek Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Johnson Creek  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

89.4  
  %  
     
   277,672  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

22  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

26.  
     
   Kittery Premium Outlets  
     
   ME  
     
   Kittery  
     
   Ground Lease (2014)  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

97.4  
  %  
     
   264,538  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

27.  
     
   Las Americas Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   San Diego  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

98.3  
  %  
     
   560,904  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Sony, Tommy Bahama, True Religion  

28.  
     
   Las Vegas Outlet Center  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   468,997  
     
   Adidas, Aeropostale, Ann Taylor, Bose, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Gymboree, Levi's, Nautica, Nike, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

29.  
     
   Las Vegas Premium Outlets  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2003  

100.0  
  %  
     
   538,689  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, David Yurman, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Elie Tahari, Etro, Hugo Boss, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tag Heuer, Ted Baker,
 True Religion  

30.  
     
   Lebanon Premium Outlets  
     
   TN  
     
   Lebanon  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

91.8  
  %  
     
   227,040  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Samsonite, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

31.  
     
   Lee Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Lee  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

100.0  
  %  
     
   224,853  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, J. Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

32.  
     
   Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Leesburg (Washington D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

97.1  
  %  
     
   517,711  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Coach, Crate   Barrel, Diesel, DKNY, Juicy Couture, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Under Armour,
Williams-Sonoma  

33.  
     
   Liberty Village Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Flemington (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

94.1  
  %  
     
   164,528  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

34.  
     
   Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Michigan City  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.0  
  %  
     
   454,365  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

35.  
     
   Napa Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Napa  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.6  
  %  
     
   179,407  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Nautica, Tommy Hilfiger  

36.  
     
   North Bend Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   North Bend (Seattle)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

94.7  
  %  
     
   223,411  
     
   Adidas, Bass, Carter's, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Izod, Nike, Nine West, PacSun, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen, VF Outlet  

37.  
     
   North Georgia Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Dawsonville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.2  
  %  
     
   540,308  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy
Hilfiger, Williams-Sonoma  

38.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets Vineland Ave.  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   549,580  
     
   Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Dior, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tag Heuer, Theory  

39.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets International Dr.  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

99.0  
  %  
     
   773,519  
     
   Betsey Johnson, Coach, J. Crew, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Victoria Secret  

23  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

40.  
     
   Osage Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   MO  
     
   Osage Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

91.6  
  %  
     
   393,211  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

41.  
     
   Petaluma Village Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Petaluma  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

96.6  
  %  
     
   195,771  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

42.  
     
   Philadelphia Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Limerick (Philadelphia)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2007  

96.9  
  %  
     
   549,143  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware,
Sony  

43.  
     
   Pismo Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Pismo Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

98.0  
  %  
     
   147,728  
     
   Aeropostale, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Jones New York, Levi's Outlet, Nike, Nine West, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

44.  
     
   Pleasant Prairie Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Pleasant Prairie  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

99.9  
  %  
     
   402,465  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Juicy Couture, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Sony  

45.  
     
   Puerto Rico Premium Outlets  
     
   PR  
     
   Barceloneta  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

89.6  
  %  
     
   344,587  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Nine West, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Tommy Hilfiger  

46.  
     
   Queenstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Queenstown  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

93.1  
  %  
     
   284,312  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gucci, J. Crew, Juicy Couture, Kate Spade, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

47.  
     
   Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Mercedes (McAllen)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2006  

96.9  
  %  
     
   584,790  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy
Hilfiger  

48.  
     
   Round Rock Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Round Rock (Austin)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2006  

98.0  
  %  
     
   488,561  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

49.  
     
   San Marcos Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   San Marcos  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2010  

98.5  
  %  
     
   732,162  
     
   Betsey Johnson, Cole Haan, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Michael Kors, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo  

50.  
     
   Seattle Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   Tulalip (Seattle)  
     
   Ground Lease (2034)  

100.0%  
     
   Built 2005  

99.1  
  %  
     
   443,810  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Hugo Boss, J. Crew, Juicy Couture, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger  

51.  
     
   St. Augustine Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   St. Augustine (Jacksonville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

97.0  
  %  
     
   328,549  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

52.  
     
   The Crossings Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Tannersville  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2019)(7)  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.3  
  %  
     
   411,268  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

53.  
     
   Vacaville Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Vacaville  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

98.3  
  %  
     
   437,395  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gucci, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Tommy Bahama, Tommy
Hilfiger  

54.  
     
   Waikele Premium Outlets  
     
   HI  
     
   Waipahu (Honolulu)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

99.5  
  %  
     
   209,802  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

24  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

25  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

26  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

27  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

28  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

29  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal 
Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

7.  
     
   Grapevine Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Grapevine (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

29.6%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

96.3  
  %  
     
   1,778,434  
     
   Bed, Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Forever 21, Group USA The Clothing Co. JCPenney Outlet, Marshalls, NIKE, OFF 5th Saks Fifth Avenue,
AMC Theatres, Dr. Pepper Star Center, Sun   Ski Sports, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Sears Appliance Outlet, Bass Pro Outdoor World, Off Broadway Shoes, VF Outlet, Legoland Discovery(6), Sea Life Center(6)  

8.  
     
   Great Mall  
     
   CA  
     
   Milpitas (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
     
   Acquired 2007  

94.9  
  %  
     
   1,361,151  
     
   Last Call Neiman Marcus, Sports Authority, Group USA, Kohl's, Dave   Busters, H M, Sears Appliance Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, NIKE, Century Theatres, Bed
Bath   Beyond, XXI Forever  

9.  
     
   Gurnee Mills  
     
   IL  
     
   Gurnee (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

95.7  
  %  
     
   1,826,523  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond, Burlington Coat Factory, H   M, Kohl's, Marshall's Home Goods, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Rinkside, Sears Grand, The Sports Authority,
TJ Maxx, VF Outlet, Marcus Cinemas, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Value City Furniture  

10.  
     
   Katy Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Katy (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

31.3%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

89.9  
  %  
     
   1,554,826  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath and Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, F.Y.E., Marshalls, Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center, Nike Factory Store, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet,
Sun   Ski Sports, AMC Theatres, Off Broadway Shoes, XXI Forever  

11.  
     
   Ontario Mills  
     
   CA  
     
   Ontario (Riverside)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

93.2  
  %  
     
   1,479,453  
     
   Burlington Coat Factory, Baby Depot, NIKE, Gameworks, The Children's Place Outlet, Marshalls, JCPenney Outlet, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Nordstrom Rack, Dave   Busters,
Group USA, Sam Ash Music, Off Broadway Shoes, AMC Theatres, H M, F.Y.E., Second Spin  

12.  
     
   Opry Mills  
     
   TN  
     
   Nashville  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

(18)  

1,159,833  
     
   (18)  

13.  
     
   Potomac Mills  
     
   VA  
     
   Prince William (Washington, D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.1  
  %  
     
   1,537,357  
     
   Group USA, Marshall's, TJ Maxx, Sears Appliance Outlet, JCPenney Outlet, Urban Behavior, Burlington Coat Factory, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nordstrom Rack, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Costco Warehouse, The
Children's Place, AMC Theatres, Modell's Sporting Goods, Books-A-Million, H M, Last Call Neiman Marcus, XXI Forever, Bloomingdale's Outlet  

14.  
     
   Sawgrass Mills  
     
   FL  
     
   Sunrise (Miami)  
     
   Fee  

50.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.8  
  %  
     
   2,258,616  
     
   American Signature Home, Beall's Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Brandsmart USA, Burlington Coat Factory, Gameworks, JCPenney Outlet Store, Marshalls, Neiman Marcus Last Call Clearance Center, Nike Factory Store,
Nordstrom Rack, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue Outlet, Ron Jon Surf Shop, The Sports Authority, Super Target, TJ Maxx, VF Factory Outlet, Wannado City, F.Y.E., Off Broadway Shoes, Regal Cinemas, GAP Outlet, Bloomingdale's Outlet  

15.  
     
   St. Louis Mills  
     
   MO  
     
   Hazelwood (St. Louis)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

80.8  
  %  
     
   1,174,827  
     
   Bed Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Cabela's, iceZONE, Marshalls MegaStore, NASCAR SpeedPark, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Sears Appliance Outlet, The Children's Place Outlet, Regal
Cinemas, Plan 9 Skatepark  

16.  
     
   The Block at Orange  
     
   CA  
     
   Orange (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

25.0%  
  (4)  
   Acquired 2007  

92.1  
  %  
     
   725,154  
     
   Dave   Buster's, Vans Skatepark, Lucky Strike Lanes, Borders Books   Music, Off 5th Saks Fifth Avenue, AMC Theatres, Nike Factory Store, Last Call Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoes,
H M  

Subtotal The Mills    

22,757,227   

30  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

31  

Table of Contents   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    This
property is managed by a third party.
      (2)    Our
direct and indirect interests in some of the properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in favor of other
partners or us.
      (3)    The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground
leases, we have a right of first refusal or the right to purchase the lessor's interest. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at least 50% of its respective
property.
      (4)    Joint
venture properties accounted for under the equity method.
      (5)    Regional
Malls Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall stores, excluding majors. Premium Outlets Executed leases for all
company-owned GLA (or total center GLA). Community/Lifestyle Centers Executed leases for all company-owned GLA including majors and mall stores.
      (6)    Indicates
anchor or major that is currently under development.
      (7)    Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this property.
      (8)    Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).
      (9)    The
lease at the Mall at Chestnut Hill includes the entire premises including land and building.
      (10)    Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.
      (11)    Indicates
vacant anchor owned by another company, but we still collect rent and/or fees under an agreement.
      (12)    We
receive substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.
      (13)    Outside
partner receives substantially all of the economic benefit due to a partner preference.
      (14)    We
own a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles us to 100% of the economics of this property.
      (15)    Our
indirect ownership interest is through an approximately 76% ownership interest in Kravco Simon Investments.
      (16)    Indicates
anchor or major tenant has announced its intent to close this location.
      (17)    Mall  
Freestanding GLA includes office space as follows:    

(18)    Property
temporarily closed due to flood damage which occurred during May 2010.    
  32  

Table of Contents    

United States Lease Expirations      

The following table summarizes lease expiration data for our regional malls and Premium Outlets located in the United States, including
Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2010. The data does not include information for The Mills, the Mills Regional Malls, or properties we acquired in 2010 in our acquisition of Prime Outlets
Acquisition Company, or Prime. The data presented does not consider the impact of renewal options that may be contained in leases.   

    Simon Property Group Inc. and Subsidiaries       U.S. Lease Expirations 
Regional Malls and Premium Outlets 
As of December 31, 2010     

(1)    Annual
rental revenues represent 2010 consolidated and joint venture combined base rental revenue.    

    International Properties     

              Our ownership interests in properties outside the United States are primarily owned through joint venture arrangements. However, we
have direct minority investments in certain real estate companies within the U.K. as further described below.   

  33  

Table of Contents   

European Investments      

Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI, is a fully integrated European retail real estate developer, owner and manager of
45 properties in Italy. At December 31, 2010, we had a 49.0% ownership interest in GCI. Our properties in Italy consist primarily of hypermarket-anchored shopping centers. Substantially all of
these properties are anchored by the hypermarket retailer Auchan, who is also our partner in GCI. Certain of the properties in Italy are subject to leaseholds whereby GCI leases all or a portion of
the premises from a third party who is entitled to receive substantially all the economic benefits of that portion of the properties. Auchan is one of the two largest hypermarket operators in Europe.
These centers comprise over 10.1 million square feet of GLA and were 97.2% leased as of December 31, 2010.   

              On
July 15, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc., or Ivanhoe Cambridge, sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe which owned seven
shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners received net consideration of  422.5 million for their interests after the repayment
of all joint venture debt, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe was approximately $281 million. A portion of
the proceeds was used to repay the  167.4 million (approximately $215 million) principal balance on the Euro-denominated tranche of our Credit Facility.   

              We
and Ivanhoe Cambridge have the right to participate with Unibail-Rodamco in the potential development of up to five new retail projects in the Simon Ivanhoe pipeline, subject to
customary approval rights. We will own a 25% interest in any of these projects in which we agree to participate.   

Other International Investments      

We also hold real estate interests in eight operating joint venture properties in Japan, one operating joint venture property in
Mexico, one operating joint venture property and two joint venture properties under development in South Korea, and one joint venture property under development in Malaysia. The eight Japanese Premium
Outlets operate in various cities throughout Japan and are held in a joint venture with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. These centers comprise over 2.5 million square feet of GLA and
were 99.8% leased as of December 31, 2010.   

              The
following summarizes our holdings in these international joint ventures and the underlying countries in which these joint ventures own and operate real estate properties as of
December 31, 2010:   

Holdings

Ownership 
Interest    
     
   Properties open 
and operating    
     
   Countries of Operation    

Chelsea Japan Co. Ltd.  

40.0  
  %  
     
  8  
     
  Japan  

Premium Outlets Punta Norte (Mexico City)  

50.0  
  %  
     
  1  
     
  Mexico  

Yeoju Premium Outlets (Seoul)  

50.0  
  %  
     
  1  
     
  South Korea  

In
July 2010, we completed construction and opened a 62,000 square foot expansion at Toki Premium Outlets in Toki, Japan.   

              Prior
to May 7, 2010 we held a minority interest in Liberty International, PLC, or Liberty, a U.K. Real Estate Investment Trust that operated regional shopping centers and
owned other prime retail assets throughout the U.K. Effective May 7, 2010, Liberty completed a demerger in which it was separated into two companies, Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC,
or CSCG, and Capital   Counties Properties PLC, or CAPC. Liberty shareholders acquired the same number of shares of CSCG and CAPC as they owned in Liberty. CSCG operates regional
shopping centers and is the owner of other retail assets primarily located in the United Kingdom. CAPC is predominantly focused on property investment and development in central London. Our interest
in CSCG and CAPC is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component. Our interests in CSCG and CAPC are less than 6% of their outstanding shares respectively.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our properties located in Europe, Japan, Mexico, and Korea at December 31, 2010.   

  34  

Table of Contents    

   Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Properties     

35  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Properties     

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.      (2)    This
property is held partially in fee and partially encumbered by a leasehold on the premise which entitles the lessor to the majority of the economics of
the portion of the property subject to the leasehold.      (3)    These
properties are encumbered by a leasehold on the entire premises which entitles the lessor the majority of the economics of the property.     (4)    GCI
owns 100% of the shopping gallery at this center which consists of 177,600 sf of leaseable area. In addition, GCI owns a 40% interest in the retail
parks at this center, which consist of 446,900 sf of leasable area.    
 
  36  

Table of Contents    

Land      

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in approximately 550 acres of land held in the United States for future development.   

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency      

Due to the size of our portfolio, we focus on energy efficiency as a core sustainability strategy. Through the continued use of energy
conservation practices, energy efficiency projects, and continuous monitoring and reporting, we have reduced our energy consumption at comparable properties every year since 2003. As a result,
excluding new developments and expansions, we reduced the electricity usage over which we have direct control by 295 million kWhs since 2003. This represents a 22% percent reduction in
electricity usage across a portfolio of comparable properties and reflects an annual value of over $34 million in avoided operating
costs. Our documented reduction in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our energy management efforts is 182,000 metric tons CO2e.   

In
2010, we were awarded    NAREIT's Leader in the Light Award    for the sixth year in a row. We are the only company to have achieved the
Leader in the Light distinction every single year since NAREIT launched the program in 2005. We were included in the 2009 Carbon Disclosure Project's Global 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. The
2009 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index highlights 50 companies worldwide that have displayed the most professional approach to corporate governance with respect to climate change disclosure
practices. We were the only real estate company to be recognized.   

Mortgage Financing on Properties      

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and other indebtedness encumbering our properties, and the
properties held by our domestic and international joint venture arrangements, and also our unsecured corporate debt. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to us.   

  37  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES       As of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

38  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)    

39  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)    

40  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)    

41  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)    

42  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)    

(Footnotes on following page)     

  43  

Table of Contents    

   (Footnotes for preceding pages)   

(1)    Variable
rate loans based on LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 70 bps to 450 bps. LIBOR as of December 31, 2010 was 0.26%.
      (2)    Requires
monthly payment of interest only.
      (3)    Includes
applicable extension available at the Applicable Borrower's option.
      (4)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (5)    We
have executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on $200 million of this loan at 4.35%.
      (6)    Loans
secured by these properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted. Factory Stores of America includes Boaz, Georgetown, Graceville, Lebanon,
Nebraska City and Story City.
      (7)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (8)    Loan
is secured by The Domain Shopping Center, Palms Crossing, and Shops at Arbor Walk and is cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (9)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (10)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized.
      (11)    Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate of the loans at the all-in rate presented.
      (12)    Variable
rate loans based on Yen LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 35 bps to 187.5 bps. Yen LIBOR as of December 31, 2010
was 0.1263%.
      (13)    Lender
also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a specified base. This threshold was met and additional interest was paid in 2010.
      (14)    Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.
      (15)    $3,900,000
Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2010, the Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR+210 basis points and provides for
different pricing based upon our investment grade rating. As of December 31, 2010, $3.0 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letter of credits.
      (16)    Amounts
shown in USD equivalent. Euro equivalent is 709.1 million. Associated with these loans are interest rate swap agreements with a total
combined Euro 587.7 million notional amount that effectively fixes Facility A and B, Giugliano, and a portion of Cinisello at 4.88%.
      (17)    Amounts
shown in USD equivalent. Won Equivalent is 79,228.0 million.
      (18)    LIBOR+1.780%,
with LIBOR capped at 4.000%.
      (19)    Redeemable
beginning 3/30/11, pricing re-sets every 5 years based on an index of LIBOR+2.45%.
      (20)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (21)    Loans
secured by these ten properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (22)    LIBOR+3.000%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.500%.
      (23)    Our
share of indebtedness for joint ventures excludes our share of indebtedness of $146.4 million in joint venture entities in which GCI holds a
non-controlling interest.
      (24)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.50%.
      (25)    The
maturity date shown represents the anticipated maturity date of the loan which is typically 10-20 years earlier than the stated
Maturity Date of the loan. Should the loan not be repaid at the anticipated repayment date the applicable interest rate shall increase as specified in the loan agreement.
      (26)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Yen equivalent 35,330.3 million
      (27)    LIBOR+0.870%,
with LIBOR capped at 4.000%.    
  44  

Table of Contents   

(28)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.00%.
      (29)    LIBOR+1.950%,
with LIBOR capped at 6.00%.
      (30)    LIBOR+4.500%,
with LIBOR capped at 8.250%. Through an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.00%.
      (31)    Variable
rate loans based on 91 Day Korea CD rate plus interest rate spreads ranging from 290 bps to 340 bps. The 91 Day Korea
CD rate as of December 31, 2010 was 2.80%.
      (32)    Senior
note was paid off on 1/20/11.
      (33)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Yen 22,265.0 million.
      (34)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (35)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (36)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (37)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (38)    We
have executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on $245 million of this loan at 6.26%.
      (39)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (40)    Senior
note was paid off on 2/1/11.   

The
changes in consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008 are as follows:   

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings            

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our
business, including, but not limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such
litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.    

Item 4.    [Removed and Reserved.]            

  45  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

Market Information      

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range for the shares and the
distributions declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:   

There
is no established public trading market for Simon Property's Class B common stock. Dividends on the Class B common stock are identical to the common
stock.   

Holders      

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 1,996 as of December 31, 2010. The Class B common stock
is held entirely by a voting trust to which the Estate of Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates are parties and is exchangeable on a
one-for-one basis into shares of common stock.   

Dividends      

We are required to pay a minimum level of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income
generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of
operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be required to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Dividends
during 2010 aggregated $2.60 per share and were paid entirely in cash. Dividends during 2009 aggregated $2.70 and were paid part in stock and part in cash, subject to
stockholder election. On February 3, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a cash common stock dividend of $0.80 per share for the first quarter of 2011.   

              We
offer an Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan that allows stockholders to acquire additional shares by automatically reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the
plan at a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities      

During the fourth quarter of 2010, we issued 55,518 shares of common stock to limited partners in exchange for an equal number of
units. The issuance of the shares of common stock was made pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership and was exempt from registration under the Securities Act of
1933 as amended, in reliance upon Section 4(2).   

Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans      

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this
report.   

Temporary Equity      

As of the end of the first quarter of 2010 and through April 14, 2010, holders of our Series I preferred stock and
holders of the Operating Partnership's Series I Convertible preferred units could elect to convert their Series I   

  46  

Table of Contents   

  preferred
stock into shares of our common stock or Series I preferred units into units of the Operating Partnership or Series I preferred stock. The optional conversion election resulted
from the closing sale price of our common stock exceeding the applicable trigger price per share for a period of 20 trading days in the last 30 trading days of the prior quarter. Each share of
Series I preferred stock and Series I preferred unit was convertible into common stock or units at a conversion ratio of .847495.   

              On
March 17, 2010, we announced that we would redeem all of the outstanding shares of our Series I preferred stock and the Operating Partnership's Series I
Preferred Units on April 16, 2010. The redemption price was equal to the liquidation value per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date or $50.4917 per share or
unit.   

              Through
the redemption date of April 16, 2010, holders of Series I preferred stock converted 7,871,276 shares of Series I preferred stock into 6,670,589 shares of
our common stock and holders of Series I preferred units converted 1,017,480 Series I preferred units into 862,292 units of the Operating Partnership at a conversion ratio of .847495. We
redeemed the remaining 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock for $50.4917 per share for an aggregate cash redemption payment of $11.1 million including accrued dividends.   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Selected Financial Data section of our 2010 Annual
Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources   Market Risk," filed as Exhibit 13.1
to this Form 10-K.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

              Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item 15.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

None.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures            

                Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
participation of management, including
our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, our management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2010.   

                Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       Our management's report on internal control
over financial reporting is set forth
in our 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.   

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       There was no change in our internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2010 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information            

              During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors approved certain audit,
audit-related and non-audit tax compliance services to be provided by Ernst   Young, LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This disclosure is made
pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  47  

Table of Contents   

Part III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2011 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

  48  

Table of Contents   

Part IV            

      Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

(1)      Consolidated Financial Statements     

Simon
Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and independent registered public accounting firm's reports are included in our 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.   

Page No.    

(2)  
      
      Financial Statement Schedule    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III   Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  

52  

Notes to Schedule III  

58  

(3)  
      
      Exhibits    

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item.  

59  

49  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES        

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
    /s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer  

February 25, 2011  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon  
     
   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   February 25, 2011  

/s/ HERBERT SIMON 

Herbert Simon  
      
    Chairman Emeritus and Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ RICHARD S. SOKOLOV 

Richard S. Sokolov  
      
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN 

Melvyn E. Bergstein  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ LARRY C. GLASSCOCK 

Larry C. Glasscock  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ LINDA WALKER BYNOE 

Linda Walker Bynoe  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ 

Reuben S. Leibowitz  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ J. ALBERT SMITH, JR. 

J. Albert Smith, Jr.  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

50  

Table of Contents   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ KAREN N. HORN 

Karen N. Horn  
     
   Director  
     
   February 25, 2011  

/s/ ALLAN HUBBARD 

Allan Hubbard  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ DANIEL C. SMITH 

Daniel C. Smith  
      
    Director  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
    February 25, 2011  

/s/ STEVEN K. BROADWATER 

Steven K. Broadwater  
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
    February 25, 2011  

51  

Table of Contents    

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

52  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

53  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

54  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

55  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

56  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

57  

Table of Contents    

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2010 
(Dollars in thousands)     

   (1)       Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:     

The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 are as follows:   

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2010 was $21,371,250.   

(2)       Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:     

The
changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 are as follows:   

Depreciation
of our investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the estimated original
lives of the assets as follows:   

Buildings and Improvements   typically 10-40 years for the structure, 15 years
for landscaping and parking lot, and 10 years for HVAC equipment.           Tenant Allowances and Improvements   shorter of lease term or useful life.    

(3)   
     
  Initial cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties and new developments after December 20, 1993. Initial cost also includes any new developments that are opened
during the current year. Costs of disposals and impairments of property are first reflected as a reduction to cost capitalized subsequent to acquisition.  

(4)   
      
   Not developed/constructed by us or our predecessors. The date of construction represents the acquisition date.  

(5)   
      
   Initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  

(6)   
      
   Secured by a $260,000 cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted mortgage loan facility.  

58  

Table of Contents   

Exhibits    

3.1  
     
       Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Registrant's Proxy Statement on
Schedule 14A filed on March 27, 2009).  

3.2  
     
       Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on March 25, 2009).  

3.3  
     
       Certificate of Powers, Designations, Preferences and Rights of the 8 3 / 8 % Series J Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, $0.0001 Par Value (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 20, 2004).  

9.1  
     
       Second Amended and Restated Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between Melvin Simon  
Associates, Inc., on the one hand and Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon and David Simon on the other hand (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).  

9.2  
     
       Voting Trust Agreement, Voting Agreement and Proxy dated as of March 1, 2004 between David Simon, Melvin Simon and Herbert Simon
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 9.2 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 10, 2004).  

10.1  
     
       Eighth Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Simon Property Group, L.P. dated as of May 8, 2008 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2008).  

10.2  
     
       Form of the Indemnity Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the
Registrant's Form S-4 filed August 13, 1998 (Reg. No. 333-61399)).  

10.3  
     
       Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 24, 1998, by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 9, 1998).  

10.4  
     
       Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 27, 1999 by and among the Registrant and the persons named therein (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed March 24, 2004 (Reg. No. 333-113884)).  

10.5  
     
       Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 14, 1997, by and between O'Connor Retail Partners, L.P. and Simon DeBartolo Group,
 Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed December 7, 2001 (Reg. No. 333-74722)).  

10.6  
  *  
       Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2008).  

10.7  
  *  
       Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant's 2004 Form 10-K).  

10.8  
  *  
       Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Registrant's 2006 Form 10-K).  

10.9  
  *  
       Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Registrant's 2004 Form 10-K).  

10.10  
  *  
       Employment Agreement among Richard S. Sokolov, the Registrant, and Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P. dated
January 1, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Registrant's 2008 Form 10-K).  

10.11  
     
       Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2007, by and among The Mills Limited Partnership, as Borrower, The Mills
Corporation, as Parent, certain of its subsidiaries, as Guarantors, the lenders party thereto and Simon Property Group, L.P., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 23, 2007).  

10.12  
     
       Voting Agreement dated as of June 20, 2004 among the Registrant, Simon Property Group, L.P. and certain holders of shares of common
stock of Chelsea Property Group, Inc. and/or common units of CPG Partners, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 22, 2004).  

10.13  
     
       Form of Amendment to Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement under 2008 Stock Incentive Program (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 1, 2009).  

10.14  
  *  
       Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan dated as of December 31, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2009).  

10.15  
  *  
       Amendment 2008 Performance Based-Restricted Stock Agreement dated as of March 6, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2
of the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2009).  

10.16  
     
       $3,565,000,000 Credit Agreement dated as of December 8, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of Simon Property Group,
 L.P.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 11, 2009).  

10.17  
  *  
       Form of Series 2010 LTIP Unit (Three Year Program) Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2010).  

59  

Table of Contents   

Exhibits    

10.18  
  *  
       Form of Series 2010 LTIP Unit (Two Year Program) Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2010).  

10.19  
  *  
       Form of Series 2010 LTIP Unit (One Year Program) Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2010).  

10.20  
  *  
       Description of Director and Executive Compensation Agreements.  

12.1  
     
       Statement regarding computation of ratios.  

13.1  
     
       Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial Statements of the
Registrant as contained in the Registrant's 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

21.1  
     
       List of Subsidiaries of the Company.  

23.1  
     
       Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  

31.1  
     
       Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  
     
       Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32  
     
       Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

101  
     
       The following materials from the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, formatted in XBRL
(Extensible Business Reporting Language): (1) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (2) the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income, (3) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (4) Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text.  

*    Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.    

60  

10-K
 2
 a2202046zf1_10-k.pdf
 10-K

<EX-10.20>
 3
 a2202046zex-10_20.htm
 EX-10.20

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.20            

DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTOR AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS      (February             , 2011)       

    Compensation of Non-Employee Directors     

Annual Retainer.       Non-employee members of the Board receive an annual retainer in cash and restricted stock:

The cash component is $70,000.     
           The restricted stock award has a value of $82,500(1).     
           The retainer is payable upon election, re-election or appointment to the Board(2).    

(1)    Grants
of restricted stock are determined by dividing the cash value of the award by the 20 trading day average closing price of the Company's common stock
ending on the trading day immediately preceding the date of such award.
      (2)    Pro-rated
for partial years of service.    

Committee Chair Retainers.       Each non-employee Committee Chair receives:   

Audit $20,000, payable one-half in cash and one-half in restricted stock.    
           All other Committees (except Executive Committee)   $15,000, payable one-half in cash and
one-half in restricted stock.    

Meeting Fees.       Non-employee directors receive $2,000 per Board meeting for in person attendance. Non-employee
directors
receive $1,500 per committee meeting for attendance (whether in person, by telephone or video conference). The per meeting fee payable for in person attendance of Board or committee meetings is two
(2) times regular meeting fee for any non-employee Director who must travel more than four (4) times zones from his or her personal residence to the location of a meeting of
the Board or any of its committees. No Director currently lives more than four (4) time zones from the location of meetings of the Board or any of its committees.   

Lead Independent Director Compensation.       The non-employee director designated as Lead Director receives an
additional retainer of $25,000
annually, payable one-half in cash and one-half in restricted stock (pro-rated for any partial year of service).   

                Vesting of Restricted Stock.       All restricted stock compensation received by non-employee directors vests in full
one year after the award.   

Director Ownership Guidelines.       Under the Company's Governance Principles, directors must own 3,000 or more
shares of the Company's common stock or
units of the Operating Partnership within two years after their initial election or appointment and 5,000 or more shares or units three years from such date. Restricted stock qualifies for this
purpose only after full vesting.   

                Deferred Compensation.       Non-employee directors may elect to defer all or a portion of their cash compensation
under the Company's
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Deferred Compensation Plan"). To date, none of our non-employee directors has elected to do so. All restricted stock issued to
non-employee directors as retainers will be placed in the Deferred Compensation Plan. Dividends paid on the restricted stock in this account must be reinvested in the Company's common
stock. Amounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan will not be released until a director retires and resigns from the Board or is not re-elected.   

    Compensation of Named Executive Officers     

                Base Salaries.       The executive officers of the Company serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The
Compensation Committee of the Board sets
or ratifies the base salaries of the Company's executive officers. The following are the current annual base salary levels for the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer   

  61  

and
its three other most highly compensated executive officers (the "Named Executive Officers") required to be identified in the proxy statement for the Company's 2011 annual meeting of stockholders:   

Employment Agreements.       Mr. Sokolov has entered into an employment agreement with the Company, a copy of
which has been filed as an exhibit to
the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

                Bonus Plan.       Each of the Named Executive Officers is also eligible to receive an annual bonus under the
Company's bonus program. For each participant,
the Company sets a bonus target, generally expressed as a percentage of base salary. Actual bonus payments may range from 0 to 150% of the target amount. The Company sets specific criteria for
corporate, business unit (if applicable) and individual (if applicable) objectives. The criteria may also include subjective measures of performance or financial measures such as EBITDA or other
measures related to an executive's primary areas of responsibility. In the case of our Named Executive Officers, the bonus criteria are approved by the Compensation Committee. In the recent past, the
payment of bonuses has been made subject to achievement of the Company's overall budget for the year. The Company also includes "stretch" levels which may justify higher payments if Company
performance exceeds its budget. If an executive officer's bonus criteria are objective, then the achievement of those criteria are reviewed by the Compensation Committee. Achievement of
the bonus criteria is generally determined in February of the year after the performance year and bonuses are paid in March.   

              At
the time of filing this description, the Compensation Committee has not yet determined the bonuses for the Named Executive Officers for 2010.   

                Long-Term Incentives.       The Named Executive Officers are eligible to receive discretionary awards under the Simon
Property
Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1998 Plan"). Under the 1998 Plan, the Compensation Committee may make the following types of equity-based awards: incentive stock options,
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance units and restricted stock. Prior to 2010, the only forms of awards the Compensation Committee had granted had been options and
restricted stock. No stock options have been granted to employees since 2001. Beginning in 2010, the Compensation Committee has awarded LTIP units pursuant to three-year
long-term incentive programs ("LTIP programs") in which the Named Executive Officers participate.   

              Awards
under the LTIP program take the form of LTIP units, a type of limited partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership. Awarded LTIP units can be earned, in whole or in
part, depending upon the extent to which our total stockholder return, or TSR (representing the difference between a baseline value and valuation date based on price appreciation of our common stock
plus cumulative dividends we pay on our common stock without compounding), over the performance period exceeds the relative and absolute performance targets set by the committee. The LTIP units that
are earned to the extent that applicable TSR benchmarks are achieved during the performance period become the equivalent of units, but only after an additional two year service-based vesting
requirement that begins after the end of the performance period. LTIP units not earned are forfeited. Units are exchangeable for shares of the Company's common stock on a
one-for-one basis, or cash, as selected by the Company.   

The
Compensation Committee approved three programs for 2010 having one, two and three year performance periods, respectively, which are referred to as the one, two and three year 2010
LTIP Programs (the "2010 LTIP Programs"). The performance period for the one year LTIP program ended December 31, 2010; the performance   

  62  

period
for the two year LTIP program will end December 31, 2011; and the performance period for the three year LTIP program will end December 31, 2012.   

All
of the 2010 LTIP Programs use the same three performance measures. The Company compares the TSR of the Company's common stock during the applicable performance period using a
baseline value of $79.80 per share (the closing sale price as reported by the NYSE for December 31, 2009). The first relative performance measure, weighted at 60%, requires our TSR to equal or
exceed the overall performance of the MSCI US REIT (Total Return) Index. The second relative performance measure, weighted at 20%, requires our TSR to equal or exceed the overall performance of the
S P 500 (Total Return) Index. The third performance measure, which is weighted at 20%, requires our TSR, viewed on an absolute basis, to exceed a specified target TSR. To achieve a 100% payout
of the award based on all three measures, our TSR must exceed the performance of the MSCI US REIT Index by
3% or more, must exceed the performance of the S P 500 by 2% or more on an annual basis and must be 12% per year or more. To receive a partial payout any one of the following must occur: our
TSR must be greater than the MSCI US REIT Index minus 1%, our TSR must be greater than the S P 500 minus 2% or our TSR on an absolute basis must be greater than 6.67% per year.   

              The
number of earned LTIP units will be determined by the Compensation Committee when our financial results for the performance period are available using the following payout matrices
(with linear interpolation between the specified payout percentages):   

Relative TSR (Weighted 60%) MSCI US REIT Index     

Relative TSR (Weighted 20%) S P 500 Index     

Absolute TSR (Weighted 20%)     

After
the end of each performance period, any earned LTIP units will then be subject to time-based vesting over a period of two years. One-half of the earned
LTIP units will vest on January 1 of each of the two succeeding years following the end of the applicable performance period, subject to the participant maintaining employment with us through
those dates.   

After
the end of the performance period, holders of earned LTIP units, both vested and unvested, will be entitled to receive distributions in an amount per LTIP Unit equal to the
distributions, both regular and special, payable on a unit.   

  63  

On
March 16, 2010, the Compensation Committee approved the following awards of LTIP units under the one, two and three year 2010 LTIP Programs for the Named Executive Officers:   

On
February 2, 2011, the Compensation Committee determined that the following LTIP units had been earned under the one year 2010 LTIP Program by the Named Executive Officers:   

Insurance and 401(k) Plan.       The Company pays employee and dependent life insurance premiums for each Named
Executive Officer and makes annual
contributions to the accounts of the Named Executive Officers under the Company's 401(k) retirement plan. The Company's basic contribution to the 401(k) retirement plan is equal to 1.0% of the Named
Executive Officer's compensation and vests 20% after completion of two years and an additional 20% after each additional year of service until fully vested after six years. The Company matches 100% of
the first 3% of the Named Executive Officer's contribution and 50% of the next 2% of the Named Executive Officer's contribution. Company matching contributions are vested when made. The Company's
basic and matching contributions are subject to applicable IRS limits and regulations.   

                Non-Qualified Plan.       The Named Executive Officers may also participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan, a
non-qualified
deferred compensation plan for certain executives, key employees and directors. While the Deferred Compensation Plan is an unfunded plan for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended, certain assets have been set aside in the Simon
Property Group, L.P. Deferred Compensation Plan Trust to be used to pay benefits to participants, except to the extent the Company becomes insolvent.   

              The
Deferred Compensation Plan permits eligible employees to defer receipt of up to 100% of their compensation, including Company stock awarded under the 1998 Plan. The Deferred
Compensation Plan also authorizes the Company to make matching contributions based on each eligible employee's elective cash deferrals. The Company has not made any matching contributions since the
inception of the Deferred Compensation Plan. Participants in the Deferred Compensation Plan are 100% vested in all elective cash deferrals. Deferrals of Company stock awarded under the 1998 Plan vest
in accordance with the terms of the 1998 Plan. Employee elective cash deferrals generate earnings based on investment elections made by individual participants.   

                Heath and Welfare Benefits.       The Named Executive Officers also participate in health and welfare benefit plans
on the same terms as other salaried
employees.   

  64  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.20   
 
  DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTOR AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS (February , 2011)   

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.20>
 4
 a2202046zf3_ex-1020.pdf
 EX-10.20

</EX-10.20>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 a2202046zex-12_1.htm
 EX-12.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 12.1            

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends   (in thousands)            

For
purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" have been computed by adding fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest, to pre-tax income
from consolidated continuing operations
including income from noncontrolling interests and our share of pre-tax (loss) income from 50%, or greater than 50%, owned unconsolidated affiliates which have fixed charges, and our share
of distributed operating income from less than 50% owned unconsolidated affiliates instead of income from the less than 50% owned unconsolidated affiliates. There are generally no restrictions on our
ability to receive distributions from our unconsolidated joint ventures where no preference in favor of the other owners of the joint venture exists. "Fixed charges" consist of interest costs, whether
expensed or capitalized, the interest component of rental expenses, preferred distributions, losses on extinguishment of debt, and amortization of debt issue costs.   

  65  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 12.1   
 
  SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends (in thousands)   

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.1>
 6
 a2202046zf5_ex-121.pdf
 EX-12.1

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 7
 a2202046zex-13_1.htm
 EX-13.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 13.1            

              The following tables set forth selected financial data. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other data we believe is important in understanding trends in our business
is also included in the tables.   

Notes     

(1)      Represents dividends declared per period.
         (2)       FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides useful information to investors. Please refer to Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a definition and reconciliation of FFO.      
  66  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

              The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto that are included in this Annual Report to
Stockholders.   

   Overview     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a
self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, among other things, a company must distribute
at least 90 percent of its taxable income to its stockholders annually. Taxes are paid by stockholders on dividends
received and any capital gains distributed. Most states also follow this federal treatment and do not require REITs to pay state income tax. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating
Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property Group, Inc. and
its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or held an interest in 338 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 161 regional malls, 58 Premium Outlets, 66
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, and 17 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto
Rico. Of the 36 properties acquired in the Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. Internationally, as of December 31,
2010, we had ownership interests in 45 European shopping centers in Italy, eight Premium Outlets in Japan, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in South Korea. On
July 15, 2010, we and our joint venture partner sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe, which owned seven shopping centers located in France
and Poland.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:   

Base minimum rents,     
           Overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and     
           Recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate taxes,
repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
seek growth in earnings, funds from operations, or FFO, and cash flows by enhancing the profitability and operation of our properties and investments. We seek to accomplish this
growth through the following:   

Focusing on leasing to increase revenues and utilizing economies of scale to reduce operating expenses,    
           Expanding and re-tenanting existing franchise locations at competitive market rates,    
           Selectively acquiring high quality real estate assets or portfolios of assets, and     
           Selling non-core assets.    

We
also grow by generating supplemental revenue from the following activities:   

Establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,     
           Offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
sale of energy,     
           Selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
 
  67  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Generating interest income on cash deposits and loans made to related entities.    

We
focus on high quality real estate across the retail real estate spectrum. We expand or modernize to enhance profitability and market share of existing assets when we believe the
investment of our capital meets our risk-reward criteria. We selectively develop new properties in markets that exhibit strong population and economic growth.   

              We
routinely review and evaluate acquisition opportunities based on their ability to complement our portfolio. Our international strategy includes partnering with established real
estate companies and financing international investments with local currency to minimize foreign exchange risk.   

              To
support our growth, we employ a three-fold capital strategy:   

Provide the capital necessary to fund growth,     
           Maintain sufficient flexibility to access capital in many forms, both public and private, and     
           Manage our overall financial structure in a fashion that preserves our investment grade credit ratings.    

Results Overview     

              Diluted earnings per common share increased from $1.05 in 2009 to $2.10 in 2010. Significant factors contributing to
the year-over-year change included:   

improved operating performance and core business fundamentals in 2010, coupled with fewer tenant bankruptcies and the
recovery of amounts for which we had previously reserved,     
           the effect of our acquisition and expansion activity, including the acquisition of Prime,     
           a gain due to acquisition of controlling interest, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net
of $321.0 million, or $0.91 per diluted share, primarily driven by the sale of our interest in Simon Ivanhoe in the third quarter of 2010,     
           a $350.7 million, or $1.00 per diluted share, debt extinguishment charge recorded during 2010 related to our two
senior unsecured notes tender offers,     
           transaction expenses of $69.0 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, for costs incurred related to the Prime
acquisition, other acquisition-related activities and the settlement of a transaction related dispute,     
           in 2009, a $140.5 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, other-than-temporary impairment
charge related to our investment in Liberty International PLC, or Liberty, due to the significance and duration of the decline in quoted fair value, including related currency exchange
component, below the carrying value of the securities,     
           in 2009, a $88.1 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, net of related tax benefit and noncontrolling interest share,
non-cash impairment charge related to three underperforming assets, including one consolidated operating property and two joint venture assets, the write-off of certain
predevelopment costs related to projects that we no longer plan to pursue due to economic conditions, and adjustments to carrying values for certain parcels of land, and     
           in 2009, net losses related to the sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities of $30.1 million, or
$0.09 per diluted share.    

Core
business fundamentals during 2010 improved from the difficult economic environment that existed during 2009. Comparable sales per square foot, or psf, increased to $494 psf, or
9.3%, for our regional malls and Premium Outlets. Average base rents increased 1.0% to $38.87 psf as of December 31, 2010, from $38.47 psf as of December 31, 2009. Leasing spreads
remained positive as we were able to lease available square feet at higher rents than the expiring rental rates resulting in a leasing spread of $1.15 psf as of December 31, 2010, representing
a
3.0% increase over expiring rents. Occupancy was 94.2% as of December 31, 2010, as compared to 93.4% as of December 31, 2009, an increase of 80 basis points.   

  68  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Internationally,
on July 15, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge, Inc., or Ivanhoe Cambridge, sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe which
owned seven shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners received net consideration of  422.5 million for their interests after
the repayment of all joint venture debt, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe was approximately $281 million.
A portion of the proceeds was used to repay the  167.4 million (approximately $215 million) principal balance on the Euro-denominated tranche of our
$3.9 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility.   

Our
effective overall borrowing rate at December 31, 2010 decreased four basis points to 5.58% as compared to 5.62% at December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due
to a $1.3 billion decrease in our portfolio of fixed rate debt ($14.8 billion at December 31, 2010 as compared to $16.1 billion at December 31, 2009) partially
offset by an increase in the effective overall borrowing rate on variable rate debt of 74 basis points (1.93% at December 31, 2010 as compared to 1.19% at December 31, 2009). The 74
basis point increase was a result of increased borrowing spreads and LIBOR floors. At December 31, 2010, the weighted average years to maturity of our consolidated indebtedness was
approximately 5.9 years as compared to December 31, 2009 of approximately 4.1 years. Our financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010,
included:   

completing two separate cash tender offers for several outstanding series of senior unsecured notes. The first tender offer
was for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from January 2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on
January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of 2.0 years and a weighted coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered
notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes which closed on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of
$400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and $600.0 million of 6.75% notes due 2040. The weighted average duration of the notes offering was
14.4 years and the weighted average coupon was 5.69%. We reported a $165.6 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.    
           the second cash tender offer was for any and all unsecured notes of three outstanding series with maturity dates ranging
from May 2013 to August 2014. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on August 17, 2010 was approximately $1.33 billion, with a weighted average duration of
3.5 years and a weighted average coupon of 6.06%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $900.0 million of 4.375%
senior unsecured notes which closed on August 16, 2010. The senior notes are due on March 1, 2021. We reported a $185.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the third quarter
of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.     
           acquiring an outlet center located in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico from Prime on May 13, 2010 subject to an existing
$75.2 million variable-rate mortgage, which matures on May 1, 2014 and bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 225 basis points with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%.    
           completing the acquisition of Prime on August 30, 2010, in which we acquired an additional 20 outlet centers subject
to existing mortgage loans of approximately $1.2 billion which bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.51% to 6.01% and mature at various dates throughout 2016.     
           increasing our borrowings on our Credit Facility to $858.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2010.    
           redeeming a $300.0 million maturing unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.875%.     
           redeeming a $400.0 million maturing unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.60%.     
           redeeming a $400.0 million maturing unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.875%.     
           unencumbering five properties by repaying $1.1 billion in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of
4.35%.    
 
  69  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    United States Portfolio Data     

              The portfolio data discussed in this overview includes the following key operating statistics: occupancy; average base rent per square
foot; and comparable sales per square foot for our domestic assets. We include acquired properties in this data beginning in the year of acquisition and remove properties sold in the year disposed.
For comparative purposes, we separate the information below related to community/lifestyle centers, the properties acquired from the Mills Corporation in 2007, or the Mills, from our other U.S.
operations. We also do not include any properties located outside of the United States. The following table sets forth these key operating statistics for:   

properties that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements,     
           properties we account for under the equity method of accounting as joint ventures, and     
           the foregoing two categories of properties on a total portfolio basis.    

(1)    Percentages
may not recalculate due to rounding. Percentage and basis point changes are representative of the change from the comparable prior period.
      (2)    For
comparative purposes, U.S. Regional Malls and Premium Outlets statistical data do not include the 21 Prime properties. As of December 31, 2010,
Occupancy of these 21 acquired properties was 95.4%, Average Base Rent per Square Foot was $24.75, and Sales per Square Foot were $423.    

70  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

                 Occupancy Levels and Average Base Rent per Square Foot.        Occupancy and average base rent are based on
gross
leasable area, or GLA, owned by us in the regional malls, all tenants at the Premium Outlets, all tenants in the Mills portfolio, and all tenants at community/lifestyle centers.   

Comparable Sales per Square Foot.        Comparable sales include total reported retail tenant sales at owned
GLA (for mall and freestanding stores with
less than 10,000 square feet) in the regional malls and all reporting tenants at the Premium Outlets and the Mills. Retail sales at owned GLA affect revenue and profitability levels because sales
determine the amount of minimum rent that can be charged, the percentage rent realized, and the recoverable expenses (common area maintenance, real estate taxes, etc.) that tenants can afford to pay.   

International Property Data     

              The following are selected key operating statistics for certain of our international properties.   

(1)    Does
not include one center in Mexico (Premium Outlets Punta Norte) and one center in Korea (Yeoju Premium Outlets).    

Critical Accounting Policies     

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or
GAAP, requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue, and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various
transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we
evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current information.
Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.
For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account
for our leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to
pay overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed its sales threshold.     
           We review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in cash flows, occupancy and
comparable sales per square foot at the property. We measure any impairment of investment property when the estimated    
 
  71  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

undiscounted
operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income
the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their
carrying values. We also review our investments including investments in unconsolidated entities if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be
recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments below carrying value is other-than-temporary.   

To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income in any given year and meet certain
asset and income tests. We monitor our business and transactions that may potentially impact our REIT status. In the unlikely event that we fail to maintain our REIT status, and available relief
provisions do not apply, then we would be required to pay federal income taxes at regular corporate income tax rates during the period we did not qualify as a REIT. If we lost our REIT status, we
could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were met. As a result, failing to maintain REIT status would result in
a significant increase in the income tax expense recorded during those periods.     
           We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings
as-if-vacant, land and market value of in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our
estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the
market value of in-place leases, we make our best estimates of the tenants' ability to pay rents based upon the tenants' operating performance at the property, including the competitive
position of the property in its market as well as sales psf, rents psf, and overall occupancy cost for the tenants in place at the acquisition date. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue
that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases.     
           A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a
cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of
judgment. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of
the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction
project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon opening.    

Results of Operations     

              In addition to the activity discussed above in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and
property openings affected our consolidated results from continuing operations in the comparative periods:   

During 2010, we disposed of one regional mall, one community center, and one other retail property.    
           On August 30, 2010, we completed our previously announced transaction to acquire 21 outlet centers from Prime,
including a center located in Puerto Rico, which was acquired on May 13, 2010.     
           On August 1, 2010, we acquired a controlling interest in a regional mall.     
           During 2009, we disposed of one regional mall and three community centers.     
           On August 6, 2009, we opened Cincinnati Premium Outlets, a 400,000 square foot outlet center located in Warren
County, Ohio, north of Cincinnati.     
           On April 23, 2009, we opened The Promenade at Camarillo Premium Outlets, a 220,000 square foot expansion located in
Ventura County, north of Los Angeles.    
 
  72  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

On November 13, 2008, we opened Jersey Shore Premium Outlets, a 435,000 square foot outlet center with 120 designer
and name-brand outlet stores located in Tinton Falls, New Jersey.     
           On November 6, 2008, we opened the second phase of Orlando Premium Outlets, a 114,000 square foot expansion that is
100% leased and adds 40 new merchants, located in Orlando, Florida.     
           On May 1, 2008, we opened Pier Park, a 900,000 square foot, open-air retail center located in Panama
City, Florida.     
           On March 27, 2008, we opened Houston Premium Outlets, a 427,000 square foot outlet center located approximately 30
miles west of Houston in Cypress, Texas.    

In
addition to the activities discussed above and in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and property openings affected our income from unconsolidated entities
in the comparative periods:   

During 2010, we disposed of one other retail property.     
           On July 15, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge, sold our collective interests in Simon
Ivanhoe which owned seven shopping centers located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco.     
           On May 28, 2010, we acquired an additional interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located in Houston,
Texas thereby increasing our interest from 31.5% to 50.4%.     
           On April 29, 2010, Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI, one of our European joint ventures in which we hold a 49%
ownership interest, sold its 40% interest in Porta di Roma for  71 million.     
           On March 25, 2010, GCI opened Catania, a 642,000 square foot shopping center in Sicily, Italy.    
           On March 2, 2010, GCI opened Argine, a 300,000 square foot shopping center in Naples, Italy.    
           During 2009, we recognized a loss on our joint venture interests in our shopping centers in China. We sold our interests to
affiliates of our Chinese partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million.     
           On July 9, 2009, Chelsea Japan Company, Ltd., or Chelsea Japan, the joint venture which operates the Japanese
Premium Outlets in which we have a 40% ownership interest, opened Ami Premium Outlets located in Ami, Japan.     
           On December 30, 2008, Cincinnati Mills, one of the properties we acquired in the Mills acquisition, was sold. We
held a 50% interest the shopping center.     
           On October 16, 2008, Chelsea Japan, opened Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets located in Izumi Park Town, Japan. We hold a
40% ownership interest in Chelsea Japan.     
           On August 25, 2008, GCI opened Monza, a 211,600 square foot shopping center in Monza, Italy.    
           On June 5, 2008, we opened Changshu In City Plaza, a 487,000 square foot retail center located in Changshu, China.
We held a 32.5% ownership interest in this center which was sold as part of the disposition of our interests in China.     
           On May 2, 2008, we opened Hamilton Town Center, a 950,000 square foot open-air retail center in
Noblesville, Indiana. We hold a 50% ownership interest in this center.    

For
the purposes of the following comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the above transactions are
referred to as the property transactions. In the following discussions of our results of operations, "comparable" refers to properties open and operating throughout both the current and prior year.   

  73  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

              During 2010, we disposed of three consolidated properties that had an aggregate carrying value net of any related debt obligations of $0.1 million for
aggregate sales proceeds of $5.8 million, resulting in a net gain of $5.7 million. The gain on disposition of these properties recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and
the operating results of the properties that we sold or disposed of during 2010 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following lists those consolidated properties we
disposed of and the date of disposition:   

During
2009, we disposed of four consolidated properties that had an aggregate net book value of $13.7 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $3.9 million, resulting in a
net loss of $9.8 million. The loss on disposition of these assets recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and the operating results of the properties that we sold or disposed of
during 2009 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following lists those consolidated properties we disposed of and the date of disposition:   

In
2008 we had no consolidated property dispositions.   

     Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2009      

              Minimum rents increased $112.7 million during the 2010 period, due to a $80.9 million increase attributable to the
property transactions and an increase in comparable rents of $31.8 million, or 1.4%. The increase in comparable minimum rents was primarily attributable to a $33.8 million increase in
base minimum rents and a $6.5 million increase in comparable rents from carts, kiosks, and other temporary tenants, partially offset by a $4.8 million decline in the fair market value of
in-place lease amortization and a $3.7 million decrease in straight-line rents. Overage rents increased $25.7 million, or 30.3%, as a result of an increase in
tenant sales for the period as compared to the prior year.   

              Tenant
reimbursements increased $21.6 million, due to a $24.5 million increase attributable to the property transactions, offset by a $2.9 million, or 0.3%,
decrease in the comparable properties as a result of a decrease in expenditures allocable to tenants paying common area maintenance on a proportionate basis.   

              Total
other income increased $25.3 million, principally as a result of the result of the following:   

an increase in lease settlement income of $33.6 million due to a higher number of terminated leases in the period,    
           an increase in interest income of $10.1 million due to an increase in our available cash on deposit,    
           offset by a $12.4 million decrease in land sale activity, and     
           a $6.0 million decrease in net other activity.    

Property
operating expenses decreased $11.4 million, or 2.69%, primarily related to lower costs resulting from our cost control and cost reduction initiatives and generally lower
cost of utilities. An increase in property operating expenses in the fourth quarter related to the Prime properties was offset by more favorable claims experience by our captive insurance
subsidiaries.   

  74  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              Depreciation
and amortization expense decreased $14.8 million due to the impact of the acceleration of depreciation in 2009 for certain properties scheduled for redevelopment,
offset by an increase in 2010 of $52.7 million related to the acquisition of the Prime properties and an increase related to openings and expansion activity.   

              The
provision for credit losses decreased $19.5 million due to a reduction in the number of tenants in default and a decrease in the number of tenants in bankruptcy proceedings
compared to the same period in 2009. We also had strong collections of receivables which we had previously established reserves for due to uncertainty of payment.   

During
2010, we incurred $69.0 million in transaction expenses related to acquisitions, potential acquisitions, and the settlement of a transaction related dispute.   

              Interest
expense increased $35.0 million primarily related to the Operating Partnership's offerings of new series of unsecured notes totaling $3.2 billion in 2010 and
$1.8 billion during 2009 and the result of new or refinanced debt at several properties including debt associated with the Prime acquisition, offset by the purchase of unsecured notes in the
January and August 2010 tender offers and mortgage loans which we repaid during the 2010 period.   

              During
2010, we incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt of $350.7 million related to the two unsecured note tender offers.   

              Income
tax expense (benefit) of taxable REIT subsidiaries increased $7.0 million due to the recognition of a $5.8 million tax benefit in 2009 related to the adjustment of
the carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated non-retail real estate entity.   

              Income
from unconsolidated entities increased $35.7 million primarily due to favorable results of operations over the prior period, the sale of a non-retail building
in 2010, a property opening and expansion in Japan, a decrease in the provision for credit losses and interest savings, partially offset by the negative impact to operations of the flood at Opry
Mills.   

              In
2010, we recognized an $8.2 million impairment charge from an investment in an unconsolidated entity representing the impact of an impairment recorded on an investment
property in Italy.   

              In
2010, we recorded a gain upon acquisition of a controlling interest and on the sale of interests in unconsolidated entities of $321.0 million primarily due to our share of the
gain on the sale of our interest in Simon Ivanhoe, the gain on the acquisition of a controlling interest in a regional mall previously accounted for under the equity method and the gain on sale of
Porta di Roma by GCI.   

              Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $58.6 million primarily due to an increase in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $19.7 million as a result of the conversion and redemption of the remaining Series I preferred stock in the second quarter of 2010.   

Year Ended December 31, 2009 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2008      

              Minimum rents increased $24.9 million in 2009, of which the property transactions accounted for $27.3 million of the
increase, offset by a decrease in comparable minimum rents of $2.4 million, or 0.1%. The decrease in comparable minimum rents was primarily attributable to a $15.4 million decline in the
fair market value of in-place lease amortization and a $12.6 million decrease in straight-line rents, offset by an increase in minimum rents of $22.8 million and
an increase in comparable rents from carts, kiosks, and other temporary tenants of $2.8 million. Overage rents decreased $15.3 million or 15.3%, as a result of a reduction in tenant
sales for the period as compared to the prior year.   

Tenant
reimbursements decreased $3.7 million, due to a $14.8 million, or 1.4%, decrease in the comparable properties as a result of a decrease in expenditures allocable to
tenants paying common area maintenance on a proportionate basis, offset by an $11.1 million increase attributable to the property transactions.   

  75  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              Management
fees and other revenues decreased $8.4 million principally as a result of decreased earned premiums of our wholly-owned captive insurance entities and lower fee
revenue due to the reduction in development, leasing and joint venture property refinancing activity.   

              Total
other income decreased $5.4 million, and was principally the result of the following:   

a $15.4 million decrease in interest income primarily due to lower reinvestment rates and the lower rate applicable
to our variable rate loan facility with SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, and     
           a $2.3 million decrease in net other activity, partially offset by     
           a $6.5 million increase in land sale activity primarily related to a land sale in the fourth quarter of 2009, and    
           a $5.8 million increase in lease settlement income.    

Property
operating expenses decreased $30.2 million, or 6.6%, primarily related to lower utility costs resulting from our cost control and cost reduction initiatives.   

              Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $28.1 million due to the impact of prior year openings and expansion activity and acceleration of depreciation for certain
properties scheduled for redevelopment.   

              Repairs
and maintenance decreased $16.1 million due to our cost savings efforts.   

Home
and regional office expense decreased $34.8 million primarily due to decreased personnel costs attributable to our cost control initiatives and lower incentive compensation
levels.   

              During
2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of $140.5 million representing an other-than-temporary impairment in the fair value below the
carrying value of our minority investment in Liberty. We recorded the charge to earnings due to the significance and duration of the decline in the total share price, including currency revaluations.
In addition, we recorded impairment charges in 2009 of $56.9 million related to one regional mall, certain parcels of land and certain predevelopment costs related to projects no longer being
pursued. In 2008, we recognized an impairment of $16.5 million primarily representing the write-down of a mall property to its estimated net realizable value and the
write-off of predevelopment costs for various development opportunities which we no longer plan to pursue.   

              During
2009, we recorded $5.7 million in transaction expenses related to costs associated with acquisition related activities. In accordance with the required adoption of a new
accounting pronouncement effective January 1, 2009, all transaction costs are expensed as incurred and are no longer capitalized as a component of acquisition cost as prior accounting guidance
permitted.   

              Interest
expense increased $44.9 million primarily related to the Operating Partnership's issuance of $500 million of senior unsecured notes on August 11, 2009,
$600 million senior unsecured notes on May 15, 2009 and $650 million senior unsecured notes on March 25, 2009, offset by decreased interest expense on our Credit Facility
due to the payoff of the U.S. tranche and other property debt refinancings.   

              The
2008 period included a loss on extinguishment of debt of $20.3 million in the second quarter of 2008 related to the redemption of $200 million in remarketable debt
securities. We extinguished the debt because the remarketing reset base rate was above the rate for 30-year U.S. Treasury securities at the date of redemption.   

              Income
tax expense of taxable REIT subsidiaries decreased $8.8 million due to the recognition of a $5.8 million tax benefit in 2009 related to the adjustment of the
carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated non-retail real estate entity.   

              Income
from unconsolidated entities increased $8.0 million as a result of our 2008 joint venture openings and expansion activity, interest rate savings from favorable interest
rates and debt refinancings, and additional depreciation provisions related to the finalization of purchase accounting on asset basis step-ups in the 2008 period associated with the
acquisition of Mills, offset by the gain recognized in 2008 from our disposition of an investment holding of non-retail real estate adjacent to one of our regional mall operating
properties.   

  76  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

              In
2009, we recognized a $42.7 million impairment charge representing our share of impairment charges recorded by unconsolidated entities and also impairment charges on our
investment in certain unconsolidated entities for which we deemed the declines in value below our carrying amount other-than-temporary.   

              The
loss on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities of $30.1 million in 2009 was the result of the sale of one regional mall, three community centers, and our
32.5% joint venture interests in our shopping centers operating or under development in China.   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $58.0 million primarily due to a decrease in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $14.8 million as a result of the conversion of 6.4 million Series I preferred shares into common shares during 2008.   

   Liquidity and Capital Resources     

              Because we generate revenues primarily from long-term leases, our financing strategy relies primarily on
long-term fixed rate debt. We manage our floating rate debt to be at or below 15-25% of total outstanding indebtedness by negotiating interest rates for each financing or
refinancing based on current market conditions. Floating rate debt currently comprises approximately 11.6% of our total consolidated debt at December 31, 2010. We also enter into interest rate
protection agreements as appropriate to assist in managing our interest rate risk. We derive most of our liquidity from leases that generate positive net cash flow from operations and distributions of
capital from unconsolidated entities that totaled $2.0 billion during 2010. In addition, our Credit Facility provides an alternative source of liquidity as our cash needs vary from time to
time.   

              Our
balance of cash and cash equivalents decreased $3.2 billion during 2010 to $0.8 billion as of December 31, 2010. December 31, 2010 and 2009 balances
include $55.3 million and $38.1 million, respectively, related to our co-branded gift card programs, which we do not consider available for general working capital purposes.   

              On
December 31, 2010, we had available borrowing capacity of approximately $3.0 billion under the Credit Facility, net of outstanding borrowings of $858.6 million
and letters of credit of $33.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the maximum amount outstanding under the Credit Facility was $862.2 million and the weighted average
amount outstanding was approximately $580.4 million. The weighted average interest rate was 2.20% for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

              We
and the Operating Partnership have historically had access to public equity and long term unsecured debt markets and access to private equity from institutional investors at the
property level.   

              Our
business model requires us to regularly access the debt and equity capital markets to raise funds for acquisition and development activity, redevelopment capital, and to refinance
maturing debt. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand and availability under our Credit Facility to address our debt maturities and capital needs through 2011.   

As
discussed further in "Financing and Debt" below, we conducted two cash tender offers for several outstanding series of unsecured notes during 2010. On January 12, 2010, we
commenced a tender offer to purchase ten outstanding series of notes. We subsequently purchased $2.3 billion of notes on January 26, 2010. The purchase of the notes was primarily funded
with proceeds from the sale of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes issued on January 25, 2010. Additionally, on August 9, 2010, we commenced a tender offer to purchase three
outstanding series of notes. We subsequently purchased $1.33 billion of tendered notes on August 17, 2010. The purchase of the notes was primarily funded with proceeds from the sale of
$900.0 million of senior unsecured notes issued on August 16, 2010. As a result of the tenders, we extended the weighted average duration of our senior unsecured notes portfolio from
6.8 years to 7.5 years and slightly decreased the weighted average interest rate.   

Loans to SPG-FCM     

As part of the Mills acquisition in 2007, the Operating Partnership made loans to SPG-FCM and the Mills which were used by
SPG-FCM and Mills to repay loans and other obligations of Mills. As of December 31, 2010 and   

  77  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

  2009,
the outstanding balance of our remaining loan to SPG-FCM was $651.0 million and $632.0 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded approximately
$9.9 million, $9.3 million and $15.3 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to this loan, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee
income amortization related to up-front fees on those loans during 2010, 2009 and 2008 of approximately $0.9 million, $3.7 million and $3.1 million (net of
inter-entity eliminations), respectively, for providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM. The loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and matures
on June 8, 2011, and can be extended for one year.   

              In
conjunction with the Mills acquisition, we acquired a majority interest in two properties in which we previously held a 50% ownership interest (Town Center at Cobb and Gwinnett
Place) and as a result we have consolidated these two properties at the date of acquisition.   

In
addition to the loans provided to SPG-FCM, we also provide management services to substantially all of the properties in which SPG-FCM holds an interest.   

Cash Flows     

Our net cash flow from operating activities and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities totaled $2.0 billion
during 2010. In addition, we had net repayments from our debt financing and repayment activities in 2010 of $2.4 billion and an additional $350.7 million primarily related to premiums
paid to par as a result of the cash tender offers for senior notes of the Operating Partnership. These activities are further discussed below in "Financing and Debt". Also during 2010,
we:   

paid stockholder dividends and unitholder distributions of $910.5 million,     
           paid preferred stock dividends and preferred unit distributions totaling $8.9 million,     
           funded consolidated capital expenditures of $256.3 million (includes development and other costs of
$38.7 million, renovation and expansion costs of $96.1 million, and tenant costs and other operational capital expenditures of $121.5 million),     
           funded investments in unconsolidated entities of $193.9 million,     
           redeemed the remaining outstanding shares of Series I preferred stock for $11.0 million,    
           invested in six mortgage and mezzanine loans secured by real estate with an aggregate carrying value of
$395.9 million at December 31, 2010, and     
           acquired 21 outlet centers from Prime as further discussed in "Acquisitions and Dispositions" below.    

In
general, we anticipate that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating expenses, monthly debt service, recurring capital expenditures, and distributions to
stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification on a long-term basis. In addition, we expect to be able to obtain capital for nonrecurring capital expenditures, such as
acquisitions, major building renovations and expansions, as well as for scheduled principal maturities on outstanding indebtedness, from:   

excess cash generated from operating performance and working capital reserves,     
           borrowings on our Credit Facility,     
           additional secured or unsecured debt financing, or     
           additional equity raised in the public or private markets.    

We
expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2011, and we consider these projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived
from retail tenants, many of whom have been and continue to be under some degree of economic stress. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to increase our
reliance on available funds from our Credit Facility, curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing as discussed above.   

  78  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

Financing and Debt     

Unsecured Debt      

Our unsecured debt at December 31, 2010 consisted of approximately $10.0 billion of senior unsecured notes of the
Operating Partnership and $858.6 million outstanding under our Credit Facility. The Credit Facility has a borrowing capacity of $3.9 billion and contains an accordion feature allowing
the maximum borrowing capacity to expand to $4.0 billion. The Credit Facility matures on March 31, 2013. The base interest on the Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 210 basis points and
includes a facility fee of 40 basis points. The Credit Facility also includes a money market competitive bid feature, which allows participating lenders to bid on amounts outstanding at then current
market rates of interest for up to 50% of amounts available under the facility. As of December 31, 2010, we are in compliance with all of the covenants of our unsecured debt.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2010, our borrowings under the Credit Facility increased primarily as a result of the Prime acquisition partially offset by the repayment of
 167.4 million (approximately $215 million) principal balance on the Euro-denominated tranche of our Credit Facility on July 23, 2010. The total
outstanding balance of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2010 was $858.6 million, and the maximum outstanding balance during the year ended December 31, 2010 was
$862.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the weighted average outstanding balance on the Credit Facility was approximately $580.4 million. The outstanding balance
as of December 31, 2010 includes $273.6 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings.   

              On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
January 2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of
2.0 years and a weighted average coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior
unsecured notes that closed on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and
$600.0 million of 6.75% notes due 2040. The weighted average duration of the notes offering was 14.4 years and the weighted average coupon was 5.69%. We recorded a $165.6 million
charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

              On
March 18, 2010, the Operating Partnership repaid a $300.0 million senior unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.875%.   

              On
June 15, 2010, the Operating Partnership repaid a $400.0 million senior unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.60%.   

On
August 9, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of three outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from May
2013 to August 2014. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on August 17, 2010 was approximately $1.33 billion, with a weighted average duration of
3.5 years and a weighted average coupon of 6.06%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $900.0 million of 4.375%
senior unsecured notes that closed on August 16, 2010. The senior notes are due on March 1, 2021. We recorded a $185.1 million charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2010 as a
result of the tender offer.   

              On
August 16, 2010, the Operating Partnership repaid a $400.0 million senior unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.875%.   

Secured Debt     

Total secured indebtedness was $6.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009. During the year ended December 31,
2010, we unencumbered five properties by repaying $1.1 billion in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 4.35%.   

On
May 13, 2010, we acquired a property located in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico from Prime subject to an existing $75.2 million mortgage loan. The loan matures on
May 1, 2014 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 225 basis points with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%.   

  79  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

On
August 30, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Prime and assumed existing mortgage loans of approximately $1.2 billion which bear interest at fixed rates ranging from
5.51% and 6.01% and mature at various dates throughout 2016.   

Summary of Financing     

Our consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, and the effective weighted average interest rates as of
December 31, 2010, and 2009, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):   

As of December 31, 2010, we had $692.5 million of notional amount fixed rate swap agreements that have a weighted average fixed pay rate of 2.79%
and a weighted average variable receive rate of 0.51%. As of December 31, 2010, the net effect of these agreements effectively converted $692.5 million of variable rate debt to fixed
rate debt.   

                Contractual Obligations and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements:        In regards to long-term debt arrangements,
the following table
summarizes the material aspects of these future obligations on our consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2010, and subsequent years thereafter (dollars in thousands) assuming the
obligations remain outstanding through initial maturities:   

(1)    Represents
principal maturities only and therefore, excludes net premiums of $5,028.
      (2)    Variable
rate interest payments are estimated based on the LIBOR rate at December 31, 2010.
      (3)    Represents
only the minimum non-cancellable lease period, excluding applicable lease extension and renewal options.    

Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of our investments in joint ventures which are common in the real estate industry and are described in Note 7 of
the notes to the accompanying financial statements. Our joint ventures typically fund their cash needs through secured debt financings obtained by and in the name of the joint venture entity. The
joint venture debt is secured by a first mortgage, is without recourse to the joint venture partners, and does not represent a liability of the partners, except to the extent the partners or their
affiliates expressly guarantee the joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2010, the Operating Partnership had guaranteed $60.7 million of the total joint venture related mortgage or
other indebtedness of $6.6 billion then outstanding. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate to our ownership
interests), advances or partner loans, although such fundings are not required contractually or otherwise.   

Preferred Stock Activity     

As of the end of the first quarter of 2010 and through April 14, 2010, holders of our Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred stock, and holders of the Operating Partnership's 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units, or Series I preferred units, could
elect to convert their Series I preferred stock into shares of our common stock or Series I preferred units into units of limited partnership interest of the Operating   

  80  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

  Partnership,
or units, or Series I preferred stock. The optional conversion election resulted from the closing sale price of our common stock exceeding the applicable trigger price per share
for a period of 20 trading days in the last 30 trading days of the prior quarter. Each share of Series I preferred stock and Series I preferred unit was convertible into common stock or
units at a conversion ratio of .847495.   

              On
March 17, 2010, we announced that we would redeem all of the outstanding shares of our Series I preferred stock and the Operating Partnership's Series I
preferred units on April 16, 2010. The redemption price was equal to the liquidation value per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date or $50.4917 per share or
unit.   

              Through
the redemption date of April 16, 2010, holders of Series I preferred stock converted 7,871,276 shares of Series I preferred stock into 6,670,589 shares of
our common stock and holders of Series I preferred units converted 1,017,480 Series I preferred units into 862,292 units of the Operating Partnership at a conversion ratio of .847495. We
redeemed the remaining 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock for $50.4917 per share for an aggregate cash redemption payment of $11.1 million including accrued dividends.   

Acquisitions and Dispositions     

Buy-sell provisions are common in real estate partnership agreements. Most of our partners are institutional investors who
have a history of direct investment in retail real estate. Our partners in our joint venture properties may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions). If we
determine it is in our stockholders' best interests for us to purchase the joint venture interest and we believe we have adequate liquidity to execute the purchase without hindering our cash flows,
then we may initiate these provisions or elect to buy. If we decide to sell any of our joint venture interests, we expect to use the net proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness or to reinvest in
development, redevelopment, or expansion opportunities.   

                 Acquisitions.        During 2010, we acquired a controlling interest in a regional mall which resulted in a
remeasurement of our previously held equity
interest to fair value and corresponding gain of approximately $13.0 million. This gain is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interest and on sale or disposal of assets and
interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

              On
May 28, 2010, we acquired an additional interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located in Houston, Texas thereby increasing our interest from 31.5% to 50.4%.   

              On
August 30, 2010, we completed our previously announced transaction to acquire 21 outlet centers from Prime, including a center located in Puerto Rico, which was acquired on
May 13, 2010. The transaction was valued at approximately $2.3 billion, including the assumption of existing mortgage indebtedness of $1.2 billion and the repayment of
$310.7 million of preexisting mortgage loans at closing. We paid consideration comprised of 80% cash and 20% in units of the Operating Partnership. We issued approximately 1.7 million
units with an issuance date fair value of approximately $154.5 million. We funded the cash portion of this acquisition through draws on our Credit Facility.   

                 Dispositions.        We continue to pursue the disposition of properties that no longer meet our strategic
criteria or that are not the primary retail venue
within their trade area. During 2010, we disposed of one regional mall, one community center, two other retail properties, and our interest in eight international joint venture properties for an
aggregate net gain of $308.1 million.   

  81  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

Development Activity     

New Domestic Developments.        During 2010, we began construction on Merrimack Premium Outlets located in
Merrimack, New Hampshire. This new center,
which will be wholly owned by us, is expected to open in the first half of 2012. The estimated cost of this project is $138 million, and the carrying amount of the construction in
progress as of December 31, 2010 was $37.6 million. Other than this project, our share of other 2010 new developments was not significant.   

                 Domestic Expansions and Renovations.        In addition to new development, we incur costs related to
construction for significant renovation and expansion
projects at our properties. In 2011 we expect to reinstitute our redevelopment and expansion initiatives which were previously reduced given the downturn in the economy. We expect our share of
development costs for 2011 related to renovation or expansion initiatives to be approximately $350 million. We expect to fund these capital projects with cash flows from operations.   

Capital Expenditures on Consolidated Properties.      

The following table summarizes total capital expenditures on consolidated properties on a cash basis:   

International Development Activity.        We typically reinvest net cash flow from our international
investments to fund future international development
activity. We believe this strategy mitigates some of the risk of our initial investment and our exposure to changes in foreign currencies. We have also funded our European investments with
Euro-denominated borrowings that act as a natural hedge against local currency fluctuations. This has also been the case with our Premium Outlets in Japan and South Korea where we use Yen
and Won denominated financing, respectively. Currently, our consolidated net income exposure to changes in the volatility of the Euro, Yen, Won, Peso and other foreign currencies is not material. We
expect our share of international development costs for 2011 will be approximately $90 million, primarily funded through reinvested joint venture cash flow and construction loans.   

              In
March 2010, two European developments opened, adding approximately 942,000 square feet of GLA for a total net cost of approximately  221 million, of which our
share was approximately  53 million, or $64.8 million based on applicable Euro:USD exchange rates. Although we sold our joint venture interest in Simon Ivanhoe, we and
Ivanhoe Cambridge have the right to participate with Unibail-Rodamco in the potential development of up to five new retail projects in the Simon Ivanhoe pipeline, subject to customary approval rights.
We will own a 25% interest in any of these projects in which we agree to participate.   

              On
July 14, 2010 Toki Premium Outlets Phase III, a 62,000 square foot expansion to the Toki Premium Outlet located in Toki, Japan, opened to the public. Currently Tosu
Premium Outlets Phase III, a 52,000 square foot expansion to the Tosu Premium Outlet located in Fukuoka, Japan, is under construction. The combined projected net cost of these projects is JPY
5.3 billion, of which our share is approximately JPY 2.1 billion, or $25.8 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates.   

Paju
Premium Outlets, a 328,000 square foot center located in Seoul, South Korea, is under construction. The projected net cost of this project is KRW 121.2 billion, of which our
share is approximately KRW 60.6 billion, or $53.6 million based on applicable KRW:USD exchange rates.   

  82  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

We
have a 50% joint venture investment in Malaysia. Currently, Johor Premium Outlets, a 173,000 square foot center located in Johor, Malaysia is under construction. The projected net
cost of this project is MYR 153 million, of which our share is approximately MYR 77 million, or $24.9 million based on applicable MYR:USD exchange rates.   

    Market Risk     

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage
exposure to interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are
also exposed to foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the
derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. If the anticipated transaction does not occur, the cost is charged to consolidated net income. Upon
completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

Our
future earnings, cash flows and fair values relating to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market rates of interest, primarily LIBOR. LIBOR was at historically low
levels during 2010. Based upon consolidated indebtedness and interest rates at December 31, 2010, a 50 basis point increase in the market rates of interest would decrease future earnings and
cash flows by approximately $10.0 million, and would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $374.7 million.   

    Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program     

              Dividends during 2010 aggregated $2.60 per share and were paid entirely in cash. Dividends during 2009 aggregated $2.70 per share and
were paid in a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, subject to stockholder election. We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically
exceed our consolidated net income generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends and future distributions of the
Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be required to
maintain our status as a REIT.   

    Forward-Looking Statements     

              Certain statements made in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance
that our expectations will be attained, and it is possible that our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks,
uncertainties and other factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the impact of a prolonged recession, our ability to meet debt service requirements, the availability and terms of
financing, changes in our credit rating, changes in market rates of interest and foreign exchange rates for foreign currencies, the ability to hedge interest rate risk, risks associated with the
acquisition, development and expansion of properties, general risks related to retail real estate, the liquidity of real estate investments, environmental liabilities, changes in market rental rates,
trends in the retail industry, relationships with anchor tenants, the inability to collect rent due to the bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, risks relating to joint venture properties,
competitive market forces, risks related to international activities, insurance costs and coverage, terrorist activities, and maintenance of our status as a real estate investment trust. We discuss
these and other risks and uncertainties under the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may update that discussion in subsequent Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, but otherwise we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or
otherwise.   

  83  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Non-GAAP Financial Measure   Funds from Operations     

              Industry practice is to evaluate real estate properties in part based on funds from operations, or FFO. We consider FFO to be a key
measure of our operating performance that is not specifically defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We believe that FFO is helpful to investors because it
is a widely recognized measure of the performance of REITs and provides a relevant basis for comparison among REITs. We also use this measure internally to measure the operating performance of our
portfolio.   

              We
determine FFO based on the definition set forth by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, as consolidated net income computed in accordance with
GAAP:   

excluding real estate related depreciation and amortization,     
           excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items and cumulative effects of accounting changes,    
           excluding gains and losses from the sales of previously depreciated retail operating properties,    
           plus the allocable portion of FFO of unconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting based upon
economic ownership interest, and     
           all determined on a consistent basis in accordance with GAAP.    

We
have adopted NAREIT's clarification of the definition of FFO that requires us to include the effects of nonrecurring items not classified as extraordinary, cumulative effect of
accounting changes, or a gain or loss resulting from the sale of previously depreciated operating properties. We include in FFO gains and losses realized from the sale of land, outlot buildings,
marketable and non-marketable securities, and investment holdings of non-retail real estate. However, you should understand that our computation of FFO might not be comparable
to FFO reported by other REITs and that FFO:   

does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP,     
           should not be considered as an alternative to consolidated net income determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of
operating performance, and     
           is not an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.    
 
  84  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

The
following schedule reconciles total FFO to consolidated net income and diluted net income per share to diluted FFO per share.   

During
the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, FFO as disclosed above includes a $350.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with two cash
tender offers for outstanding senior unsecured notes of the Operating Partnership, reducing diluted FFO per share by $1.00 per share. Also included is our share of a non-cash impairment
charge in an investment in an operating property in Italy of approximately $8.2 million, reducing FFO per share by $0.02. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded transaction
expenses of $69.0 million, reducing diluted FFO per share by $0.20.   

During
the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $228.6 million in impairment charges, net of related tax benefit and noncontrolling interest share, reducing
diluted FFO per share by $0.68.   

  85  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

Management's Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting            

We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and
procedures that:   

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
disposition of assets;     
           Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and    
           Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

We
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.   

              Based
on that assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Their report appears on page 87
of this Annual Report.   

  86  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.   

              We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

              Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

In
our opinion, Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2010, based on the COSO criteria.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property
Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2010 of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 25, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

87  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Simon Property Group, Inc. and
Subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2011, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

88  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Balance Sheets 
(Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  89  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  90  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
(Dollars in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  91  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in thousands)     

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.   

  92  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    1.    Organization     

Simon Property Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under
the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties. In these notes to
consolidated financial statements, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and their subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2010, we owned or held an interest in 338 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 161 regional malls, 58 Premium Outlets, 66
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties acquired in the 2007 acquisition of The Mills Corporation, or the Mills acquisition, and 17 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto
Rico. Of the 36 properties acquired in the Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. Internationally, as of December 31,
2010, we had ownership interests in
45 European shopping centers in Italy, eight Premium Outlets in Japan, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in South Korea. On July 15, 2010, we and our joint venture
partner sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe, which owned seven shopping centers located in France and Poland.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:   

Base minimum rents,     
           Overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and     
           Recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate taxes,
repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
also generate supplemental revenue from the following activities:   

Establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances including payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,     
           Offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
sale of energy,     
           Selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           Generating interest income on cash deposits, loans made to related entities and loans held for investment.    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation     

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all majority-owned subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.

We
consolidate properties that are wholly owned or properties where we own less than 100% but we control. Control of a property is demonstrated by, among other factors, our ability to
refinance debt and sell the property without the consent of any other partner or owner and the inability of any other partner or owner to replace us.   

  93  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

              We
also consolidate a variable interest entity, or VIE, when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. On January 1, 2010, we adopted the amendment on the accounting and
disclosure requirements for the consolidation of VIEs. This amendment requires an enterprise to perform a qualitative analysis when determining whether or not it must consolidate a VIE. The amendment
also requires an enterprise to continuously reassess whether it must consolidate a VIE. Additionally, the amendment requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprise's involvement with VIEs and any
significant change in risk exposure due to that involvement, as well as how its involvement with VIEs impacts the enterprise's financial statements. Finally, an enterprise will be required to disclose
significant judgments and assumptions used to determine whether or not to consolidate a VIE. The adoption of this amendment did not have a significant impact on our financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.   

              Determination
of the primary beneficiary of a VIE is based on whether an entity (1) has the power to direct activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of
the VIE and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Our determination of the primary beneficiary of
a VIE considers all relationships between us and the VIE, including management agreements and other contractual arrangements. There have been no changes during 2010 in conclusions about whether an
entity qualifies as a VIE or whether we are the primary beneficiary of any previously identified VIE. During 2010, we did not provide financial or other support to a previously identified VIE that we
were not previously contractually obligated to provide.   

              Investments
in partnerships and joint ventures represent our noncontrolling ownership interests in properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. We
initially record these investments at cost and we subsequently adjust for net equity in income or loss, which we allocate in accordance with the provisions of the applicable partnership or joint
venture agreement, and cash contributions and distributions. The allocation provisions in the partnership or joint venture agreements are not always consistent with the legal ownership interests held
by each general or limited partner or joint venture investee primarily due to partner preferences. We separately report investments in joint ventures for which accumulated distributions have exceeded
investments in and our share of net income of the joint ventures within cash distributions and losses in partnerships and joint ventures, at equity in the consolidated balance sheets. The net equity
of certain joint ventures is less than zero because of financing or operating distributions that are usually greater than net income, as net income includes non-cash charges for
depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2010, we consolidated 218 wholly-owned properties and 19 additional properties that are less than wholly-owned, but which we control or for which we are the
primary beneficiary. We account for the remaining 156 properties, or joint venture properties, using the equity method of accounting. We manage the day-to-day operations of 92
of the 156 joint venture properties, but have determined that our partner or partners have substantive participating rights in regards to the assets and operations of these joint venture properties.
Our investments in joint ventures in Europe, Japan, Mexico and Korea comprise 55 of the remaining 64 properties. The international properties are managed by joint ventures in which we share oversight
responsibility with our partner. Additionally, we account for our investment in SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, which acquired The Mills Corporation and its
wholly-owned subsidiary, The Mills Limited Partnership, or collectively Mills, in April 2007, using the equity method of accounting. We have determined that SPG-FCM is not a VIE and that
Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C., our joint venture partner, has substantive participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of SPG-FCM pursuant to the applicable
partnership agreements.   

              We
allocate net operating results of the Operating Partnership after preferred distributions to third parties and to us based on the partners' respective weighted average ownership
interests in the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership attributable to third parties are reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.   

  94  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

              Our
weighted average ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was as follows:   

As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was 82.9% and 83.2%, respectively. We adjust the limited partners' interest in the Operating
Partnership at the end of each period to reflect their interest in the Operating Partnership.   

Reclassifications      

We made certain reclassifications of prior period amounts in the consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2010 presentation.
These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net income attributable to common stockholders or earnings per share.   

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investment Properties      

We record investment properties at cost. Investment properties include costs of acquisitions; development, predevelopment, and
construction (including allocable salaries and related benefits); tenant allowances and improvements; and interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction. We capitalize improvements and
replacements from repair and maintenance when the repair and maintenance extends the useful life, increases capacity, or improves the efficiency of the asset. All other repair and maintenance items
are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest on projects during periods of construction until the projects are ready for their intended purpose based on interest rates in place during the
construction period. The amount of interest capitalized during each year is as follows:   

We
record depreciation on buildings and improvements utilizing the straight-line method over an estimated original useful life, which is generally 10 to 40 years. We
review depreciable lives of investment properties periodically and we make adjustments when necessary to reflect a shorter economic life. We amortize tenant allowances, tenant inducements and tenant
improvements utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter. We record depreciation on equipment and fixtures utilizing
the straight-line method over seven to ten years.   

              We
review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in cash flows, occupancy and comparable sales per square foot at the property. We measure
any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To
the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We estimate fair value using unobservable data such as operating
income, estimated capitalization rates, or multiples, leasing prospects and local market information. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may
differ from their carrying values. We also review our investments including investments in unconsolidated entities if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our   

  95  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

investments
may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments is other-than-temporary.   

              Certain
of our real estate assets contain asbestos. The asbestos is appropriately contained, in accordance with current environmental regulations, and we have no current plans to remove
the asbestos. If these properties were demolished, certain environmental regulations are in place which specify the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and disposed. Because the obligation to
remove the asbestos has an indeterminable settlement date, we are not able to reasonably estimate the fair value of this obligation.   

Purchase Accounting Allocation      

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component
which may be derived from various observable or unobservable inputs and assumptions. Also, we may utilize third party valuation specialists. These components typically include buildings, land and
intangibles related to in-place leases and we estimate:   

the fair value of land and related improvements and buildings on an as-if-vacant basis.    
           the market value of in-place leases based upon our best estimate of current market rents and amortize the
resulting market rent adjustment into revenues.     
           the value of costs to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances and improvements and leasing commissions.    
           the value of revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the space was
vacant.    

Amounts
allocated to building are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of the acquired building or related improvements. We amortize amounts allocated to tenant improvements,
in-place lease assets and other lease-related intangibles over the remaining life of the underlying leases. We also estimate the value of other acquired intangible assets, if any, which
are amortized over the remaining life of the underlying related intangibles.   

Discontinued Operations      

We reclassify any material operations and gains or losses on disposal related to consolidated properties sold during the period to
discontinued operations. There were no consolidated assets sold during 2008. During 2009, we reported a net loss of approximately $9.8 million upon the sale of four consolidated assets. During
2010, we reported a net gain of approximately $5.7 million upon the sale of one regional mall, one community center, and two other retail properties. These gains and losses are reported in gain
(loss) upon acquisition of controlling interest, and on sale of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The gains
and losses on the disposition of these assets and the operating results were not significant to our consolidated results of operations.   

Cash and Cash Equivalents      

We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash and cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents generally consist of commercial paper, bankers acceptances, Eurodollars, repurchase agreements, and
money markets. Our gift card programs are administered by banks. We collect gift card funds at the point of sale and then remit those funds to the banks for further processing. As a result, cash and
cash equivalents, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, includes a balance of $55.3 million and $38.1 million, respectively, related to these gift card programs which we do not
consider available for general working capital purposes. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include our cash and cash equivalents and our trade accounts
receivable. We place our cash and cash   

  96  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

equivalents
with institutions with high credit quality. However, at certain times, such cash and cash equivalents may be in excess of FDIC and SIPC insurance limits. See Notes 4, 8, and 10 for
disclosures about non-cash investing and financing transactions.   

Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities      

Marketable securities consist primarily of the investments of our captive insurance subsidiaries,
available-for-sale securities, our deferred compensation plan investments, and certain investments held to fund the debt service requirements of debt previously secured by
investment properties that have been sold.   

              The
types of securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries typically include U.S. Treasury or other U.S. government securities as well as
corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from less than 1 to 10 years. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are valued based upon quoted
market prices or other observable inputs when quoted market prices are not available. The amortized cost of debt securities, which approximates fair value, held by our captive insurance subsidiaries
is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Changes in the values of these securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the
gain or loss is realized or until any unrealized loss is deemed to be other-than-temporary. We review any declines in value of these securities for
other-than-temporary impairment and consider the severity and duration of any decline in value. To the extent an other-than-temporary impairment is
deemed to have occurred, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis is established. Subsequent changes are then recognized through other comprehensive income (loss) unless another
other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred.   

              Our
investment in shares of Liberty International PLC, or Liberty, was also accounted for as an available-for-sale security. During 2009, we recognized a
non-cash
charge of $140.5 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, representing an other-than-temporary impairment in fair value below the carrying value of our investment in
Liberty. At June 30 and December 31, 2009, we owned 35.4 million shares at a weighted average original cost per share of  5.74. As of June 30 and
December 31, 2009, Liberty's quoted market price was  3.97 and  5.15 per share, respectively. As a result of the significance and duration of the decline in the total
share price at June 30, 2009, including currency revaluations, we deemed the decline in value as other-than-temporary impairment establishing a new cost basis of our
investment in Liberty. As a result, changes in available-for-sale securities and other in the 2009 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income include the
reclassification of $140.5 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings related to this non-cash charge. Prior to the quarter ending June 30, 2009, the
changes in value of our Liberty investment were reflected in other comprehensive income. Effective July 1, 2009, we resumed marking to market our Liberty investment through other comprehensive
income.   

              Effective
May 7, 2010, Liberty completed a demerger in which it was separated into two companies, Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, or CSCG, and Capital  
Counties Properties PLC, or CAPC. Liberty shareholders acquired the same number of shares of CSCG and CAPC as they owned in Liberty. Our interests in CSCG and CAPC are adjusted to their quoted
market price, including a related foreign exchange component. At December 31, 2010, we owned 35.4 million shares of CSCG at a carrying value of  3.03 per share, and
35.4 million shares of CAPC at a carrying value of  0.94 per share. The market value of our investments in CSCG and CAPC was $228.4 million and $82.4 million,
respectively, at December 31, 2010. Our aggregate unrealized gain on these investments was approximately $79.0 million at December 31, 2010. The carrying value of our investment
in Liberty at December 31, 2009 was $290.0 million with an unrealized gain of $58.2 million.   

              Our
insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain statutory minimum capital and surplus as well as maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. Therefore, our access to these securities may be
limited. Our deferred compensation plan investments are classified as trading securities and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The investments have a matching liability as the amounts are
fully payable to the employees that earned the compensation. Changes in value   

  97  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

of
these securities and changes to the matching liability to employees are both recognized in earnings and, as a result, there is no impact to consolidated net income. As of December 31, 2010
and December 31, 2009, we also had investments of $24.9 million and $51.7 million, respectively, which must be used to fund the debt service requirements of mortgage debt related
to investment properties that previously collateralized the debt. These investments are classified as held-to-maturity and are recorded at amortized cost as we have the ability
and intent to hold these investments to maturity.   

              At
December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had an investment of $72.4 million and $70 million, respectively, in a non-marketable security that we account for
under the cost method. We regularly evaluate this investment for any other-than-temporary decline in its estimated fair value.   

              Total
net unrealized gains as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 were approximately $79.3 million and $59.4 million, respectively, and represented
the valuation and related currency adjustments for our available-for-sale marketable securities. As of December 31, 2010, we do not consider any declines in value of any
of our marketable and non-marketable securities to be an other-than-temporary impairment, as these market value declines, if any, have existed
for a short period of time, and, in the case of debt securities, we have the ability and intent to hold these securities to maturity.   

Fair Value Measurements      

We hold marketable securities that total $511.3 million and $464.1 million at December 31, 2010 and
December 31, 2009, respectively, and are considered to have Level 1 fair value inputs. In addition, we have derivative instruments which are classified as having Level 2 inputs
which consist primarily of interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward contracts with a gross liability balance of $27.6 million and $13.0 million at December 31,
2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, and a nominal asset value at December 31, 2010 and 2009. We also have interest rate cap agreements with a nominal asset value. Level 1
fair value inputs are quoted prices for identical items in active, liquid and visible markets such as stock exchanges. Level 2 fair value inputs are observable information for similar items in
active or inactive markets, and appropriately consider counterparty creditworthiness in the valuations. Level 3 fair value inputs reflect our best estimate of inputs and assumptions market
participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. The inputs are unobservable in the market and significant to the valuation estimate. Note 8 includes discussion
of the fair value of debt measured using level 1 and level 2 inputs. Note 4 includes discussion of fair values recorded in purchase accounting and impairment determination using
level 2 and level 3 inputs. Level 3 inputs to our purchase accounting and impairment calculations include our estimations of net operating results of the property, cap rates and
discount rates.   

Use of Estimates      

We prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our actual results could differ from these estimates.   

Segment Disclosure      

Our primary business is the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate. We have aggregated our retail operations,
including regional malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, and community/lifestyle centers, into one reportable segment because they have similar economic characteristics and we provide similar products
and services to similar types of tenants.   

  98  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Deferred Costs and Other Assets      

Deferred costs and other assets include the following as of December 31:   

Deferred Financing and Lease Costs.        Our deferred costs consist primarily of financing fees we incurred
in order to obtain long-term
financing and internal and external leasing commissions and related costs. We record amortization of deferred financing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the respective
loans or agreements. Our deferred leasing costs consist primarily of capitalized salaries and related benefits in connection with lease originations. We record amortization of deferred leasing costs
on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Details of these deferred costs as of December 31 are as follows:   

We
report amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of premiums, and accretion of discounts as part of interest expense. Amortization of deferred leasing costs is a
component of depreciation and amortization expense. We amortize debt premiums and discounts, which are included in mortgages and other indebtedness, over the remaining terms of the related debt
instruments. These debt premiums or discounts arise either at the debt issuance or as part of the purchase price allocation of the fair value of debt assumed in acquisitions. The accompanying
consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income include amortization as follows:   

Loans Held for Investment      

From time to time, we may make investments in mortgage loans or mezzanine loans of entities that own and operate commercial real estate
assets located in the United States. Mortgage loans are secured, in part, by mortgages recorded against the underlying properties. Mezzanine loans are secured, in part, by pledges of ownership
interests of the entities that own the underlying real estate. Loans held for investment are carried at cost, net of any premiums or   

  99  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  discounts
which are accreted or amortized over the life of the related loan receivable utilizing the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of
our loans quarterly to determine whether the value has been impaired. A loan is deemed to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect
all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the loan held for investment to
its estimated realizable value.   

              At
December 31, 2010, we had investments in six mortgage and mezzanine loans secured by retail real estate with an aggregate carrying value of $395.9 million. These loans
mature at various dates through October 2012 with a weighted average maturity of approximately 13 months. Certain of these loans require interest-only payments while others require
payments of interest and principal based on a 30 year amortization. Interest rates on these loans are fixed between 5.5% and 7.0% with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 5.9% and
approximate market rates for instruments of similar quality and duration. During 2010, we recorded $4.6 million in interest income earned from loans held for investment. Payments on each of
these loans were current as of December 31, 2010.   

Intangible Assets      

The average life of in-place lease intangibles is approximately 6.6 years and is amortized over the remaining life
of the leases of the related property on the straight-line basis and is included with depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.
The amount of in-place lease intangibles increased during 2010 as a result of the acquisition of Prime Outlets Acquisition Company, or Prime, as further discussed in Note 4. The
fair market value of above and below market leases is amortized into revenue over the remaining lease life as a component of reported minimum rents. The weighted average remaining life of these
intangibles is approximately 3.6 years. The unamortized amount of below market leases is included in accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and deferred revenues in the consolidated
balance sheets and was $39.0 million and $60.9 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The amount of amortization of above and below market leases, net for the
years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 was $15.2 million, $20.0 million, and $35.4 million, respectively. If a lease is terminated prior to the original lease
termination, any remaining unamortized intangible is charged to earnings.   

              Details
of intangible assets as of December 31 are as follows:   

100  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Estimated
future amortization, and the increasing (decreasing) effect on minimum rents for our above and below market leases as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on
the intended use of the derivative, whether we have elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the
criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. We use a variety of derivative financial instruments
in the normal course of business to manage or hedge the risks associated with our indebtedness and interest payments. Our objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest
expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, we primarily use interest rate swaps and caps. We require that hedging derivative instruments be highly
effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. As a result, there was no significant ineffectiveness from any of our derivative activities during the period. We formally
designate any instrument that meets these hedging criteria as a hedge at the inception of the derivative contract. We have no credit-risk-related hedging or derivative
activities.   

              As
of December 31, 2010, we had the following outstanding interest rate derivatives related to interest rate risk:   

Interest Rate Derivative

Number of Instruments    
     
   Notional Amount    

Interest Rate Swaps  

4  
     
  $  
  692.5 million  

Interest Rate Caps  

3  
     
  $  
  385.0 million  

The
carrying value of our interest rate swap agreements, at fair value, is included within other liabilities and was $19.5 million and $13.0 million at December 31,
2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2009, we also had interest rate swaps with a carrying value of $0.3 million reported within deferred costs and other
assets. The interest rate cap agreements were of nominal value at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 and we generally do not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements. The total
gross accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our derivative activities, including our share of the other comprehensive loss from joint venture properties, approximated $40.1 million
and $52.3 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

              We
are also exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on financial instruments which are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in Japan and Europe. We use currency
forward contracts to manage our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates on certain Yen and Euro-denominated receivables and net investments. Currency forward contracts involve fixing
the Yen-USD or Euro-USD exchange rate for delivery of a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified date. The currency forward contracts are typically cash settled in
US dollars for their fair value at or close to their settlement date. We entered into Yen-USD forward contracts during 2009 for approximately  3 billion that we expect
to receive through April 2011 at an average exchange rate of 97.1 JPY:USD. We entered into   

  101  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Yen-USD
forward contracts during 2010 for an additional  1.7 billion that we expect to receive through October 2012 at an average exchange rate of 89.0 JPY:USD.
Approximately  1.8 billion remains as of December 31, 2010 the aggregate of the 2009 and 2010 contracts. The December 31, 2010 liability balance related to these
forwards was $2.1 million and is included in other liabilities and accrued dividends. We have reflected the changes in fair value for these forward contracts in earnings. The underlying
currency adjustments on the foreign-denominated receivables are also reflected in income and generally offset the amounts in earnings for these forward contracts. We entered into two
Euro-USD forward contracts during 2010 with an aggregate  200.0 million notional value maturing on June 30, 2011 which were designated as net investment
hedges. The December 31, 2010 liability balance related to these forwards was $6.0 million and is included in other liabilities and accrued dividends. We apply hedge accounting and the
changes in fair value for these Euro forward contracts are reflected in other comprehensive income (loss). Changes in the value of these hedges are offset by changes in the underlying hedged
Euro-denominated joint venture investment.   

Noncontrolling Interests and Temporary Equity      

Details of the carrying amount of our noncontrolling interests are as follows as of December 31:   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests (which includes nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, limited partners' interests in the Operating
Partnership and preferred distributions of the Operating Partnership) is a component of consolidated net income. In addition, the individual components of other comprehensive income (loss) are
presented in the aggregate for both controlling and noncontrolling interests, with the portion attributable to noncontrolling interests deducted from comprehensive income attributable to common
stockholders.   

  102  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)     

A
rollforward of noncontrolling interests for the years ending December 31 is as follows:   

(1)    The
2009 activity includes non-cash distributions of $133.7 million representing the portion of quarterly distributions paid in units of
limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units.    

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)      

The components of our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following as of December 31:   

103  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Revenue Recognition      

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay
overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed the applicable sales threshold.   

              We
structure our leases to allow us to recover a significant portion of our property operating, real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotion expenses from
our tenants. A substantial portion of our leases, other than those for anchor stores, require the tenant to reimburse us for a substantial portion of our operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, or CAM, real estate taxes and insurance. This significantly reduces our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. Such property operating expenses
typically include utility, insurance, security, janitorial, landscaping, food court and other administrative expenses. We accrue reimbursements from tenants for recoverable portions of all these
expenses as revenue in the period the applicable expenditures are incurred. As of December 31, 2010 for approximately 84% of our leases in the U.S. regional mall portfolio, we receive a fixed
payment from the tenant for the CAM component. Without the fixed-CAM component, CAM expense reimbursements are based on the tenant's proportionate share of the allocable operating expenses
and CAM capital expenditures for the property. We also receive escrow payments for these reimbursements from substantially all our non-fixed CAM tenants and monthly fixed CAM payments
throughout the year. We recognize differences between estimated recoveries and the final billed amounts in the subsequent year. These differences were not material in any period presented. Our
advertising and promotional costs are expensed as incurred.   

Management Fees and Other Revenues      

Management fees and other revenues are generally received from our unconsolidated joint venture properties as well as third parties.
Management fee revenue is earned based on a contractual percentage of joint venture property revenue. Development fee revenue is earned on a contractual percentage of hard costs to develop a property.
Leasing fee revenue is earned on a contractual per square foot charge based on the square footage of current year leasing activity. We recognize revenue for these services provided when earned based
on the underlying activity.   

              Insurance
premiums written and ceded are recognized on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. Insurance losses are reflected in property operating expenses in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and include estimates for losses incurred but not reported as well as losses pending settlement. Estimates for losses are
based on evaluations by third-party actuaries and management's best estimates. Total insurance reserves for our insurance subsidiaries and other self-insurance programs as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009 approximated $116.2 million and $117.2 million, respectively, and are included in other liabilities and accrued dividends in the consolidated balance
sheets. Information related to the securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries is included within the "Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities"
section above.   

              We
recognize fee revenues from our co-branded gift card programs when the fees are earned under the related arrangements with the card issuer. Generally, these revenues are
recorded at the issuance of the gift card for handling fees.   

Allowance for Credit Losses      

We record a provision for credit losses based on our judgment of a tenant's creditworthiness, ability to pay and probability of
collection. In addition, we also consider the retail sector in which the tenant operates and our historical collection experience in cases of bankruptcy, if applicable. Accounts are written off when
they are deemed to be no   

  104  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  longer
collectible. Presented below is the activity in the allowance for credit losses and includes the activities related to discontinued operations during the following years:   

Income Taxes      

We and certain subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership have elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. In order to maintain this REIT status, the regulations require us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable
income to stockholders and meet certain other asset and income tests as well as other requirements. We intend to continue to adhere to these requirements and maintain our REIT status and that of the
REIT subsidiaries. As REITs, these entities will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Thus, we
made no provision for federal income taxes for these entities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If Simon Property or the REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, we or that
entity will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates for the years in which it failed to qualify. If we lose our REIT status we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our
failure to qualify was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were satisfied.   

We
have also elected taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, status for some of our subsidiaries. This enables us to provide services that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REITs
and participate in activities that do not qualify as "rents from real property". For these entities, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is
provided if we believe all or some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from the change in circumstances that causes a
change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset is included in income.   

              As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had a net deferred tax asset of $9.0 million and $8.7 million, respectively, related to our TRS subsidiaries. The net deferred
tax asset is included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consists primarily of operating losses and other carryforwards for federal income tax
purposes as well as the timing of the deductibility of losses or reserves from insurance
subsidiaries. No valuation allowance has been recorded as we believe these amounts will be realized. State income, franchise or other taxes were not significant in any of the periods presented.   

Transaction Expenses      

We expense acquisition, potential acquisition and disposition related costs as they are incurred. During the year ended
December 31, 2010, we incurred costs for the acquisition of Prime as further discussed in Note 4. We also incurred expenses for other transactions that were not consummated.
Additionally, during 2010, we settled, in cash, a transaction-related dispute and recorded a charge to earnings. Transaction expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 totaled
$69.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $5.7 million in transaction expenses related to costs associated with significant acquisition related
activities.   

  105  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment     

We acquire properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We acquire individual properties or portfolios of other retail real estate
companies that meet our investment criteria and sell properties which no longer meet our strategic criteria. Our consolidated acquisition and disposal activity for the periods presented are
highlighted as follows:   

2010 Acquisitions      

During 2010, we acquired a controlling interest in a previously unconsolidated regional mall which resulted in a remeasurement of our
previously held equity interest to fair value and corresponding gain of approximately $13.0 million. This gain is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interest and on sale or
disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. On May 28, 2010, we acquired an additional
interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located in Houston, Texas thereby increasing our noncontrolling interest from 31.5% to 50.4%.   

              On
August 30, 2010, we completed our previously announced acquisition of Prime, adding 21 outlet centers, including a center located in Puerto Rico, which was acquired on
May 13, 2010. The transaction was valued at approximately $2.3 billion, including the assumption of existing mortgage indebtedness of $1.2 billion and the repayment of
$310.7 million of preexisting mortgage loans at closing. We paid consideration comprised of 80% cash and 20% in units of the Operating Partnership. We issued approximately 1.7 million
units with an issuance date fair value of approximately $154.5 million. We funded the cash portion of this acquisition through draws on our $3.9 billion unsecured revolving credit
facility, or the Credit Facility, as further discussed in Note 8.   

              The
following table summarizes our recording of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date:   

Total    

(in millions)    

Investment properties  
     
  $  
  2,167  

Cash and cash equivalents  

26  

Tenant receivables and accrued revenue, net  

4  

Deferred costs and other assets (including intangibles)  

234  

Total assets  
     
  $  
  2,431  

Mortgages and other indebtedness (including premium of $28)  
     
   $  
   
1,270  

Accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and other  

29  

Other liabilities  

18  

Total liabilities  
     
  $  
  1,317  

Acquisition
related intangibles relate to in-place leases of $193.6 million and were recorded based on their estimated fair values and are reflected within deferred
costs and other assets in the accompanying financial statements. The weighted average useful life of these intangibles is approximately 6.0 years and is amortized over the remaining life of the
related leases on a straight-line basis and is included within depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

We
recorded our acquisition of these 21 outlet centers using the acquisition method of accounting. Tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were established based on their
estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the acquired properties have been included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition. The purchase price
allocations are preliminary and subject to revision within the measurement period, not   

  106  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment (Continued)    

to
exceed one year from the date of acquisition. There have been no significant changes in amounts recorded since the date of acquisition through December 31, 2010.   

2009 Acquisitions      

We had no consolidated property acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2009.   

2008 Acquisitions      

Effective January 1, 2008, we acquired additional interests in three existing consolidated properties of between 1.8% and 5%,
for an aggregate $6.2 million in cash. Two of the properties continue to have a noncontrolling interest holder. We now own 100% of the third property.   

2010 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we disposed of one regional mall, one community center, and two other retail properties
for which we received proceeds of $5.8 million. The net gain on these disposals was $5.7 million and is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interest, and on sale or
disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2009 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold four consolidated properties for which we received proceeds of
$3.9 million. The net loss on these disposals totaled $9.8 million and is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interest, and on sale or disposal of assets and
interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2008 Dispositions      

We had no consolidated property dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2008.   

2009 Impairment      

In 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $240.1 million ($228.6 million, net of a tax benefit of
$5.8 million and noncontrolling interest holders' share of $5.7 million). As discussed in Note 3, this non-cash charge includes a $140.5 million
other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in Liberty. In addition, the total charge includes adjustments in the carrying value of one wholly-owned and one joint venture
regional mall, a write-down of five land parcels and two joint venture non-retail real estate assets, and certain predevelopment costs related to projects no longer being
pursued.   

2008 Impairment      

In 2008, we recorded impairment charges of $21.2 million ($19.4 million, net of tax benefit), which resulted primarily
from a $10.5 million reduction in the carrying value of a regional mall to its estimated net realizable value and the write-off of predevelopment costs related to various projects
that we no longer plan to pursue.   

    5.    Per Share Data     

We determine basic earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. We determine diluted earnings per share based
on the
weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding combined with the incremental weighted average shares that would have been   

  107  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    5.    Per Share Data (Continued)    

outstanding
assuming all dilutive potential common shares were converted into shares at the earliest date possible. The following table sets forth the computation of our basic and diluted earnings per
share.   

For
the year ending December 31, 2010, potentially dilutive securities include stock options, convertible preferred stock, units that are exchangeable for common stock, units
granted under our long-term incentive performance programs and preferred units that are convertible into units or exchangeable for our preferred stock. The only security that had a
dilutive effect for the year ended December 31, 2010 was stock options. The only securities that had a dilutive effect for the year ended December 31, 2009 were stock options and
contingently issuable shares from stock dividends. The only security that had a dilutive effect for the year ended December 31, 2008 was stock options.   

              We
accrue dividends when they are declared. The taxable nature of the dividends declared for each of the years ended as indicated is summarized as follows:   

108  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

6.    Investment Properties     

Investment properties consist of the following as of December 31:   

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities     

Joint ventures are common in the real estate industry. We use joint ventures to finance properties, develop new properties, and diversify our risk in a particular property or
portfolio.
We held joint venture ownership interests in 101 properties in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010. We also held an interest in a joint venture which owned 45 European shopping centers as
of December 31, 2010 and we held an interest in two joint ventures which owned 51 European shopping centers as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we also held
interests in eight joint venture properties under operation in Japan, one joint venture property under operation in Mexico, one joint venture property under operation and two joint venture properties
under development in Korea, and one joint venture property under development in Malaysia. We account for these joint venture properties using the equity method of accounting.   

              Substantially
all of our joint venture properties are subject to rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which are
customary in real estate joint venture agreements and the industry. Our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions at any time (subject to any applicable lock up or similar
restrictions), which could result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire the joint venture interest from our partner.   

              In
May 2010, Opry Mills Mall, a property in which we have a 50% interest through our SPG-FCM joint venture, sustained significant flood damage and remains closed. Insurance
proceeds of $50 million have been funded by the insurers and remediation work has been completed. The excess insurance carriers (those providing coverage above $50 million) have denied
the joint venture's claim for additional proceeds (of up to an additional $150 million) to pay amounts for restoration costs and business interruption losses. We believe recovery under the
insurance coverage is probable, but no assurances can be made in that regard.   

     Loans to SPG-FCM      

              As part of the 2007 Mills acquisition, the Operating Partnership made loans to SPG-FCM and Mills which were used by
SPG-FCM and Mills to repay loans and other obligations of Mills. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the outstanding balance of our remaining loan to SPG-FCM was
$651.0 million and $632.0 million, respectively. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded approximately $9.9 million, $9.3 million and $15.3 million in interest
income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to this loan, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee income amortization related to up-front fees on loans made to
SPG-FCM and Mills, during 2010, 2009 and 2008 of approximately $0.9 million, $3.7 million and $3.1 million (net of inter-entity eliminations), respectively, for
providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM. The loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and matures on June 8, 2011, and can be extended
for one year.   

  109  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

Summary Financial Information      

              A summary of our investments in joint ventures and share of income from such joint ventures follows. Balance sheet information for the
joint ventures is as follows:   

"Excess Investment" represents the unamortized difference of our investment over our share of the equity in the underlying net assets of the joint
ventures acquired. We amortize excess investment over the life of the related properties, typically no greater than 40 years, and the amortization is included in the reported amount of income
from unconsolidated entities.   

                As of December 31, 2010, scheduled principal repayments on joint venture properties' mortgages and other indebtedness are as follows:

This debt becomes due in installments over various terms extending through 2036 with interest rates ranging from 0.48% to 9.35% and a weighted average
rate of 5.09% at December 31, 2010.   

  110  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

111  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

2009 Impairment      

In December 2009 we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $7.6 million representing our share of impairment
charges on joint venture properties. This charge represents adjustments to the carrying value of certain parcels of land and the write-off of predevelopment costs related to certain
projects no longer being pursued. In addition, in December 2009 we recognized $35.1 million of impairment charges for investments in certain unconsolidated entities including one regional mall
and two non-retail real estate assets for which declines in value below our carrying amount were deemed other-than-temporary.   

2010 Impairment      

In December 2010, we recognized an $8.2 million non-cash impairment charge representing our share of an impairment
on a joint venture investment in a property in Italy for which a decline in value below our carrying amount was deemed other-than-temporary.   

International Joint Venture Investments      

We account for all of our international joint venture investments using the equity method of accounting and we conduct our
international operations through joint venture arrangements.   

                 European Joint Ventures.        We have a 49% ownership interest in Gallerie Commerciali Italia, or GCI. The
carrying amount of our investment in GCI was
$330.1 million and $302.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

              On
July 15, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe, Ivanhoe Cambridge Inc., sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe which owned seven shopping centers located in
France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners received net consideration of  422.5 million for their interests after the repayment of all joint venture debt,
subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe was approximately $281 million. A portion of the proceeds was used to
repay the  167.4 million (approximately $215 million) principal balance on the Euro-denominated tranche of our Credit Facility.   

                 Asian Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Japan through our 40%
participation in a joint venture with
Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. The carrying amount of our investment in this joint venture was $340.8 million and $302.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Korea through our 50% participation in a
joint venture with Shinsegae International Co. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, the carrying amount of our investment in this joint venture was
$35.7 million and $26.1 million including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

              In
December 2009, we recognized a loss on our 32.5% interests in our shopping centers operating or under development in China. The interests were sold to affiliates of our Chinese
partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million which is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interest, and on sale or disposal
of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the 2009 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income.   

  112  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments     

Our mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the impact of derivative instruments, consist of the following as of December 31:   

General.        At December 31, 2010, we have pledged 92 properties as collateral to secure related
mortgage notes including 12 pools of
cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 52 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted package may
constitute a default under all such mortgages and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the collateral package. Of our 92 encumbered properties, indebtedness on 31
of these encumbered properties and our unsecured debt are subject to various financial performance covenants relating to leverage ratios, annual real property appraisal requirements, debt service
coverage ratios, minimum net worth ratios, debt-to-market capitalization, and/or minimum equity values. Our mortgages and other indebtedness may be prepaid but are generally
subject to payment of a yield-maintenance premium or defeasance.   

              Some
of the limited partners guarantee a portion of our consolidated debt through foreclosure guarantees. In total, 25 limited partners provide guarantees of foreclosure of
$173.4 million of our consolidated debt at three consolidated properties. In each case, the loans were made by unrelated third party institutional lenders and the guarantees are for the benefit
of each lender. In the event of foreclosure of the mortgaged property, the proceeds from the sale of the property are first applied against the amount of the guarantee and also reduce the amount
payable under the guarantee. To the extent the sale proceeds from the disposal of the property do not cover the amount of the guarantee, then the limited partner is liable to pay the difference
between the sale proceeds and the amount of the guarantee so that the entire amount guaranteed to the lender is satisfied. The debt is non-recourse to us and our affiliates.   

     Unsecured Debt      

              Our unsecured debt consists of approximately $10.0 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating Partnership and
$858.6 million outstanding under our Credit Facility. The Credit Facility has a borrowing capacity of $3.9 billion and contains an accordion feature allowing the maximum borrowing
capacity to expand to $4.0 billion. The Credit Facility matures on March 31, 2013. The base interest on the Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 210 basis points and includes a facility fee of
40 basis points. The Credit Facility also includes a money market competitive bid feature, which allows participating lenders to bid on amounts outstanding at then current market rates of interest for
up to 50%   

  113  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

of
amounts available under the facility. As of December 31, 2010, we are in compliance with all of the covenants of our unsecured debt.   

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, our borrowings under the Credit Facility increased primarily as a result of the acquisition of Prime partially offset by the repayment of
 167.4 million (approximately $215 million) principal balance on the Euro-denominated tranche of our Credit Facility on July 23, 2010. The total
outstanding balance of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2010 was $858.6 million, and the maximum outstanding balance during the year ended December 31, 2010 was
$862.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the weighted average outstanding balance on the Credit Facility was approximately $580.4 million. The outstanding balance
as of December 31, 2010 includes $273.6 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings. Letters of credit of $33.3 million were outstanding under the
Credit Facility at December 31, 2010.   

              On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
January 2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of
2.0 years and a weighted average coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior
unsecured notes that closed on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and
$600.0 million of 6.75% notes due 2040. The weighted average duration of the notes offering was 14.4 years and the weighted average coupon was 5.69%. We recorded a $165.6 million
charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

              On
March 18, 2010, the Operating Partnership repaid a $300.0 million senior unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.875%.   

              On
June 15, 2010, the Operating Partnership repaid a $400.0 million senior unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.60%.   

On
August 9, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of three outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from May
2013 to August 2014. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on August 17, 2010 was approximately $1.33 billion, with a weighted average duration of
3.5 years and a weighted average coupon of 6.06%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $900.0 million of 4.375%
senior unsecured notes that closed on August 16, 2010. The senior notes are due on March 1, 2021. We recorded a $185.1 million charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2010 as a
result of the tender offer.   

              On
August 16, 2010, the Operating Partnership repaid a $400.0 million senior unsecured note which had a fixed rate of 4.875%.   

     Secured Debt      

              The balance of fixed and variable rate mortgage notes was $6.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Of the balance
outstanding at December 31, 2010, $5.7 billion is nonrecourse to us. The fixed-rate mortgages generally require monthly payments of principal and/or interest. The interest
rates of variable-rate mortgages are typically based on LIBOR. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we unencumbered five properties by repaying $1.1 billion in mortgage
loans with a weighted average interest rate of 4.35%.   

              On
May 13, 2010, we acquired a property located in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico subject to an existing $75.2 million mortgage loan. The loan matures on May 1, 2014 and
bears interest at LIBOR plus 225 basis points with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%.   

  114  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

In
connection with our acquisition of Prime, we assumed existing mortgage loans of approximately $1.2 billion which bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.51% to 6.01% and
mature at various dates throughout 2016.   

     Debt Maturity and Other      

              Our scheduled principal repayments on indebtedness as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:   

Our
cash paid for interest in each period, net of any amounts capitalized, was as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage
exposure to interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are
also exposed to foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the
derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. If the anticipated transaction does not occur, the cost is charged to consolidated net income. Upon
completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt agreement.   

              The
fair value of our interest rate swap agreements is included within other liabilities and was $19.5 million and $13.0 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. At December 31, 2009, we also had interest rate swaps with a fair value of $0.3 million within deferred costs and other assets. The interest rate cap agreements were of
nominal net value at December 31, 2010 and 2009. In addition, the unamortized balance of our treasury locks recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $6.5 million as
of December 31, 2010. The net deficit from terminated swap agreements is also recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and the unamortized balance was $1.3 million as of
December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding LIBOR based derivative contracts consisted of:   

interest rate cap protection agreements with a notional amount of $385.0 million which mature in July 2011 and June
2014, and    
 
  115  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8. Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

fixed rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $692.5 million which have a weighted average fixed pay rate of
2.79% and a weighted average variable receive rate of 0.51%.    

Within
the next year, we expect to reclassify to earnings approximately $19.8 million of losses from the current balance held in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
The amount of ineffectiveness relating to cash flow hedges recognized in income during the periods presented was not material.   

              Our
joint ventures may also enter into interest rate swaps or caps, which are recorded at fair value on the joint venture balance sheets. Included in our accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 is our share of the joint ventures' accumulated derivative losses of $20.9 million and $30.1 million, respectively.   

Fair Value of Financial Instruments      

              The carrying value of our variable-rate mortgages and other loans approximates their fair values. We estimate the fair
values of consolidated fixed-rate mortgages using cash flows discounted at current borrowing rates and other indebtedness using cash flows discounted at current market rates. We estimate
the fair values of consolidated fixed-rate unsecured notes using quoted market prices, or, if no quoted market prices are available, we use quoted market prices for securities with similar
terms and maturities. The carrying value of our consolidated fixed-rate mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding those with an associated fixed to floating swap, was
$14.8 billion and $16.1 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fair values of financial instruments and our related discount rate assumptions used in the
estimation of fair value for our consolidated fixed-rate mortgages and other indebtedness as of December 31 is summarized as follows:   

9.    Rentals under Operating Leases     

Future minimum rentals to be received under noncancelable tenant operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter, excluding tenant reimbursements of operating
expenses
and percentage rent based on tenant sales volume as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:   

Approximately
0.6% of future minimum rents to be received are attributable to leases with an affiliate of a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

    10.    Equity     

Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify excess common stock into one or more additional classes and series of capital stock, to establish the number of shares in each
class
or series and to fix the preferences, conversion   

  116  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

10.    Equity (Continued)    

and
other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, and qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of such class or series, without any further vote or action by the
stockholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of capital stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Simon Property without further action of the
stockholders. The ability to issue additional classes or series of capital stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the
effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.   

Holders
of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, other than for the election of directors. At the
time of the initial public offering of our predecessor in 1993, the charter of the predecessor gave Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon, David Simon and certain of their affiliates, or the Simons, the right
to elect four of the members of the Board of Directors, conditioned upon the Simons, or entities they control, maintaining specified levels of equity ownership in our predecessor, the Operating
Partnership and all subsidiaries. In addition, at that time, Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, acquired 3,200,000 shares of our Class B common stock. MSA placed the
Class B common stock into a voting trust under which the Simons were the sole trustees. These voting trustees had the authority to elect up to four members of the Board of Directors. These same
arrangements were incorporated into our Charter in 1998 during the combination of our predecessor and Corporate Property Investors, Inc. Shares of Class B common stock convert
automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the sale or transfer thereof to a person not affiliated with the estate of Melvin Simon, Herbert Simon or David Simon. The
Class B shares can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders. At the initial offering we reserved 3,200,000 shares of common stock for the possible conversion of the
outstanding Class B shares; the number of outstanding Class B shares was reduced to 8,000 in 1998, although the right of the holders to elect up to four directors was not modified.   

     Common Stock Issuances      

              In 2010, we issued 247,640 shares of common stock to 47 limited partners in exchange for an equal number of units.   

              We
issued 178,683 shares of common stock related to employee and director stock options exercised during 2010. We used the net proceeds from the option exercises of approximately
$4.9 million to acquire additional units. The Operating Partnership used the net proceeds for general business purposes.   

We
issued 6,670,589 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 7,871,276 shares of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock as discussed below in Temporary Equity.   

              On
August 30, 2010, the Operating Partnership issued 1,720,671 units to the owners of Prime in connection with the acquisition of 20 outlet centers as discussed in Note 4.   

              On
May 13, 2010, the Operating Partnership issued 77,798 units to the owners of Prime in connection with the acquisition of an outlet center located in Barceloneta, Puerto Rico.   

Temporary Equity     

              We classify as temporary equity those securities for which there is the possibility that we could be required to redeem the security
for cash irrespective of the probability of such a possibility. As a result, we classify one series of preferred stock, and several series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership in temporary
equity. Each of these securities that are classified in temporary equity is discussed below.   

                 Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.        This series of preferred stock was issued in
connection with our acquisition of Chelsea
Property Group, or Chelsea, in 2004. The terms of this series of preferred stock are substantially   

  117  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

10.    Equity (Continued)    

identical
to those of the related series of 6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units, or the Series I preferred units, described below.   

              As
of the end of the first quarter of 2010 and through April 14, 2010, holders of our Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred
stock, and holders of the Series I preferred units, could elect to convert their Series I preferred stock into shares of our common stock or Series I preferred units into units of
the Operating Partnership or Series I preferred stock. The optional conversion election resulted from the closing sale price of our common stock exceeding the applicable trigger price per share
for a period of 20 trading days in the last 30 trading days of the prior quarter. Each share of Series I preferred stock and Series I preferred unit was convertible into common stock or
units at a conversion ratio of .847495.   

              On
March 17, 2010, we announced that we would redeem all of the outstanding shares of our Series I preferred stock and the Operating Partnership's Series I
preferred units on April 16, 2010. The redemption price was equal to the liquidation value per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends through the redemption date or $50.4917 per share or
unit.   

              Through
the redemption date of April 16, 2010, holders of Series I preferred stock converted 7,871,276 shares of Series I preferred stock into 6,670,589 shares of
our common stock.   

                 Limited Partners' Preferred Interests in the Operating Partnership and Other Noncontrolling Redeemable Interests in Properties.        The following table
summarizes each series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership and the amount of the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties as of December 31. The redemption features of each
of these series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership contain provisions which could require us to settle the redemption in cash. As a result, these series of preferred units in the
Operating Partnership, along with the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties, remain classified outside permanent equity.   

6% Series I Convertible Perpetual Preferred Units.        Through the redemption date of April 16,
2010, holders of Series I preferred
units converted 1,017,480 Series I preferred units into 862,292 units of the Operating Partnership at a
conversion ratio of .847495. We redeemed the remaining 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock for $50.4917 per share for an aggregate cash redemption payment of $11.1 million
including accrued dividends.   

7.50% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $7.50 annually.
The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred units on or after November 10, 2013, unless there is the occurrence of certain tax triggering events such as death of the initial holder, or
the transfer of any units to any person or entity other than the persons or entities entitled to the benefits of the original holder. The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per
preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable either in cash or fully registered shares of our common stock at our election. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred
units, the occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to the holder, or on   

  118  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

or
after November 10, 2006, the holder may require the Operating Partnership to redeem the preferred units at the same redemption price payable at the option of the Operating Partnership in
either cash or shares of common stock.   

    Permanent Equity     

Preferred Stock.        Dividends on all series of preferred stock are calculated based upon the preferred
stock's preferred return multiplied by the
preferred stock's corresponding liquidation value. The Operating Partnership pays preferred distributions to us equal to the dividends we pay on the preferred stock issued.   

                 Series J 8 3 / 8 % Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        We issued this
series of preferred stock in 2004 to replace a series of
Chelsea preferred stock. Dividends accrue quarterly at an annual rate of 8 3 / 8 % per share. We can redeem this series, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2027 at a
redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. This preferred stock was issued at a premium of $7.5 million as of the date of our acquisition of Chelsea. The
unamortized premium included in the carrying value of the preferred stock at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $5.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively.   

    Other Equity Activity     

                 Notes Receivable from Former CPI Stockholders.        Notes receivable of $16.8 million from stockholders
of an entity we acquired in 1998 are
reflected as a deduction from capital in excess of par value in the consolidated statements of equity in the accompanying financial statements. The notes do not bear interest and become due at the
time the underlying shares are sold.   

                 The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.        This plan, or the 1998 plan, provides for the grant
of equity-based awards in the form of options
to purchase shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock grants and performance unit awards. Options may be granted which are qualified as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Code and options which are not so qualified. An aggregate of 11,300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1998 plan. Additionally, the
partnership agreement requires us to sell shares of common stock to the Operating Partnership, at fair value, sufficient to satisfy the exercising of any stock options, and for us to purchase units
for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares. Annual stock incentive programs were approved each year from 2001 until 2009 when no program was established.   

                 Administration.        The 1998 plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The committee determines which eligible
individuals may participate and the type, extent and terms of the awards to be granted to them. In addition, the committee interprets the 1998 plan and makes all other determinations deemed advisable
for its administration. Options granted to employees become exercisable over the period determined by the committee. The exercise price of an employee option may not be less than the fair market value
of the shares on the date of grant. Employee options generally vest over a three-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. Since 2001, we have not granted any options to
employees, except for a series of reload options we assumed as part of a prior business combination.   

                 Automatic Awards For Eligible Directors.        Directors who are not also our employees or employees of our
affiliates receive automatic awards under the
1998 plan. Until 2003, these awards took the form of stock options. Since then, the awards have been shares of restricted stock. Currently, each eligible director receives on the first day of the
first calendar month following his or her initial election an award of restricted stock with a value of $82,500 (pro-rated for partial years of service). Thereafter, as of the date of each
annual meeting of stockholders, eligible directors who are re-elected receive an award of restricted stock having a value of $82,500. In addition, eligible directors who serve as
chairpersons of the standing committees (excluding the Executive Committee) receive an additional annual award of restricted stock having a value of $10,000 (in the case of the Audit Committee) or
$7,500 (in the case of all other   

  119  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

standing
committees). The Lead Independent Director also receives an annual restricted stock award having a value of $12,500. The restricted stock vests in full after one year.   

Once
vested, the delivery of the shares of restricted stock (including reinvested dividends) is deferred under our Director Deferred Compensation Plan until the director retires, dies
or becomes disabled or otherwise no longer serves as a director. The directors may vote and are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares; however, any dividends on the shares of
restricted stock must be reinvested in shares of common stock and held in the deferred compensation plan until the shares of restricted stock are delivered to the former director.   

In
addition to automatic awards, eligible directors may be granted discretionary awards under the 1998 plan.   

Long-Term Incentive Performance Program      

On March 16, 2010, the Compensation Committee of our Board approved a Long-Term Incentive Performance Program, or
LTIP Program, for certain of our senior executive officers. Awards under the LTIP Program take the form of LTIP Units, a form of limited partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership.
During the performance period, participants are entitled to receive on the LTIP Units awarded to them distributions equal to 10% of the regular quarterly distributions paid on a unit of the Operating
Partnership. As a result, we account for these LTIP Units as participating securities under the two-class method of computing earnings per share. Awarded LTIP Units will be considered
earned, in whole or in part, depending upon the extent to which the applicable TSR benchmarks, as defined, are achieved during the performance period and, once earned, will become the equivalent of
units after a two year service-based vesting period, beginning after the end of the performance period. Awarded LTIP Units not earned are forfeited.   

              The
Compensation Committee awarded LTIP Units under three LTIP Programs having one, two and three year performance periods, which end on December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012,
respectively. We refer to these three programs as the one, two and three year 2010 LTIP Programs, or the 2010 LTIP Programs. After the end of each performance period, any earned LTIP Units will then
be subject to service-based vesting over a period of two years. One-half of the earned LTIP Units will vest on January 1 of each of the second and third
years following the end of the applicable performance period, subject to the participant maintaining employment with us through those dates.   

              The
awards made pursuant to the 2010 LTIP Programs have an aggregate grant date fair value, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, of $7.2 million for the one-year
program, $14.8 million for the two-year program and $23.0 million for the three-year program. Grant date fair value was estimated based upon the results of a
Monte Carlo model, and the resulting expense will be recorded regardless of whether the TSR benchmarks are achieved. The grant date fair value is being amortized into expense over the period from the
grant date to the date at which the awards, if any, become vested. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $12.5 million of compensation expense under the LTIP
Programs.   

                 Restricted Stock.        The 1998 plan also provides for shares of restricted stock to be granted to certain
employees at no cost to those employees,
subject to achievement of certain financial and return-based performance measures established by the committee related to the most recent year's performance. Once granted, the shares of restricted
stock then vest annually over a four-year period (25% each year) beginning on January 1 of each year. The cost of restricted stock grants, which is based upon the stock's fair
market value on the grant date, is charged to earnings ratably over the vesting period. Through December 31, 2010 a total of 5,109,362 shares of restricted stock, net of   

  120  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

10.    Equity (Continued)    

forfeitures,
have been awarded under the plan. Information regarding restricted stock awards is summarized in the following table for each of the years presented:   

The
weighted average life of our outstanding options as of December 31, 2010 is 0.8 years. Information relating to Employee Options from December 31, 2007 through
December 31, 2010 is as follows:   

No
stock options were granted to any non-employee director and there were no stock options previously awarded to non-employee directors that were outstanding
from December 31, 2007 through December 31, 2010.   

              We
also maintain a tax-qualified retirement 401(k) savings plan and offer no other postretirement or post employment benefits to our employees.   

  121  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

     Exchange Rights      

              Limited partners in the Operating Partnership have the right to exchange all or any portion of their units for shares of common stock
on a one-for-one basis or cash, as determined by the Board of Directors. The amount of cash to be paid if the exchange right is exercised and the cash option is selected will
be based on the trading price of our common stock at that time. At December 31, 2010, we had reserved 62,919,853 shares of common stock for possible issuance upon the exchange of units, stock
options, and Class B common stock and certain convertible preferred stock.   

  122  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    11. Commitments and Contingencies     

     Litigation      

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our
business, including, but not limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such
litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.   

     Lease Commitments      

              As of December 31, 2010, a total of 31 of the consolidated properties are subject to ground leases. The termination dates of
these ground leases range from 2012 to 2090. These ground leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments, or a fixed annual rental plus a percentage rent component based upon the
revenues or total sales of the property. Some of these leases also include escalation clauses and renewal options. We incurred ground lease expense included in other expense as follows:   

Future
minimum lease payments due under these ground leases for years ending December 31, excluding applicable extension options, are as follows:   

Insurance      

              We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd., and other financial arrangements
controlled by us. The third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written
through our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The
current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate
could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

  122  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    11. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

     Guarantees of Indebtedness      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by the joint venture property, which is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2010, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees of $60.7 million underlying joint venture related mortgage or other indebtedness.
Mortgages which are guaranteed by us are secured by the property of the joint venture and that property could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding obligation.   

     Concentration of Credit Risk      

              We are subject to risks incidental to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate. These risks include, among others, the
risks normally associated with changes in the general economic climate, trends in the retail industry, creditworthiness of tenants, competition for tenants and customers, changes in tax laws, interest
rate and foreign currency levels, the availability of financing, and potential liability under environmental and other laws. Our regional malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, and community/lifestyle
centers rely heavily upon anchor tenants like most retail properties. Four retailers occupied 526 of the approximately 1,320 anchor stores in the properties as of December 31, 2010. An
affiliate of one of these retailers is a limited partner in the Operating Partnership. Further, all material operations are within the United States and no customer or tenant comprises more than 10%
of consolidated revenues.   

     Limited Life Partnerships      

              We are the controlling partner in several consolidated partnerships that have a limited life. We estimated the settlement values of
these noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 as approximately $135 million and $115 million, respectively. The settlement values are based on the estimated fair
values upon a hypothetical liquidation of the partnership interests and estimated yield maintenance or prepayment penalties associated with the payment to settle any underlying secured mortgage debt.   

    12.    Related Party Transactions     

Our management company provides management, insurance, and other services to Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., a related party, and other non-owned properties.
Amounts for services provided by our management company and its affiliates to our unconsolidated joint ventures and other related parties were as follows:   

During
2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded interest income of $9.9 million, $9.3 million and $15.3 million respectively, and financing fee income of
$0.9 million, $3.7 million and $3.1 million, respectively, net of inter-entity eliminations, related to the loans that we have provided to Mills and SPG-FCM and
lending financing services to those entities and the properties in which they hold an ownership interest.   

  123  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 
(Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

13.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     

Quarterly 2010 and 2009 data is summarized in the table below. Quarterly amounts may not equal annual amounts due to rounding.   

124  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 13.1   

Management's Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-13.1>
 8
 a2202046zf7_ex-131.pdf
 EX-13.1

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 9
 a2202046zex-21_1.htm
 EX-21.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 21.1            

    List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property     

Subsidiary

Jurisdiction    

Simon Property Group, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

The Retail Property Trust  
     
   Massachusetts  

Simon Property Group (Illinois), L.P.  
     
   Illinois  

Simon Property Group (Texas), L.P.  
     
   Texas  

Shopping Center Associates  
     
   New York  

Simon Capital Limited Partnership  
     
   Delaware  

M.S. Management Associates, Inc.  
     
   Delaware  

Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd.  
     
   Bermuda  

Marigold Indemnity, Ltd.  
     
   Delaware  

Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd.  
     
   Bermuda  

Simon Business Network, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Brand Ventures, LLC  
     
   Indiana  

Simon Global Limited  
     
   United Kingdom  

Simon Services, Inc.  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

SPGGC, LLC  
     
   Virginia  

Kravco Simon Investments, L.P.  
     
   Pennsylvania  

SPG ML Holdings, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Management Associates II, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Simon Management Associates, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

CPG Partners, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

Prime Retail, L.P.  
     
   Delaware  

SPG Mayflower, LLC  
     
   Delaware  

Omits
names of subsidiaries that as of December 31, 2010 were not, in the aggregate, a "significant subsidiary."   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 21.1   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-21.1>
 10
 a2202046zf9_ex-211.pdf
 EX-21.1

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 a2202046zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

              We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. of our report dated February 25, 2011 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated
February 25, 2011, with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders of Simon Property Group, Inc.   

              Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of Simon
Property Group, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 25, 2011, the financial statement
schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   

              We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-157794) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-118427) of Simon Property Group, Inc;
      (3)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101185) pertaining to the Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-82471) pertaining to the Simon Property Group and Adopting Entities Matching
Savings Plan;
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63919) pertaining to the Corporate Property Investors, Inc. and
Corporate Realty Consultants, Inc. Employee Share Purchase Plan;    

of
our report dated February 25, 2011 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries and our report dated February 25, 2011,
with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, both incorporated by reference herein, and our report included in
the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon
Property Group, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.1>
 12
 a2202046zf11_ex-231.pdf
 EX-23.1

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 a2202046zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

  I,
David Simon, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date: February 25, 2011  

/s/ DAVID SIMON  

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.1>
 14
 a2202046zf13_ex-311.pdf
 EX-31.1

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 15
 a2202046zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002     

  I,
Stephen E. Sterrett, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
for the registrant and have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date: February 25, 2011  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT  

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.2>
 16
 a2202046zf15_ex-312.pdf
 EX-31.2

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 17
 a2202046zex-32.htm
 EX-32

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

              In connection with the Annual Report of Simon Property Group, Inc. ("Simon Property"), on
Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of the undersigned, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Simon Property.    

/s/ DAVID SIMON  

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
February 25, 2011  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
February 25, 2011  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 18
 a2202046zf17_ex-32.pdf
 EX-32

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 19
 spg-20101231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 20
 spg-20101231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.DEF>
 21
 spg-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 22
 spg-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.CAL>
 23
 spg-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.PRE>
 24
 spg-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

