<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120228_10-K_edgar_data_1063761_0001047469-12-001667_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>21777346</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>343135</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5161640</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4026213</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7995293</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3599331</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>92</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>24</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-12-001667.hdr.sgml : 20120228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120228061304
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-12-001667
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		26
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001063761
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS [6798]
		IRS NUMBER:				046268599
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14469
		FILM NUMBER:		12644442

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438
		BUSINESS PHONE:		317-636-1600

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46204-3438

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CORPORATE PROPERTY INVESTORS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980610

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-12-001667.txt : 20120228

10-K
 1
 a2207375z10-k.htm
 10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document 
   TABLE OF CONTENTS   
   Part IV   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K     

   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011   

   SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None     

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act). Yes
    No       

              Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
    No       

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes     No       

              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant
was required to submit and post such files). Yes     No       

              Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

              Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller company. See
the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer      
     
  Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller 
reporting company)  

Indicate by checkmark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in rule 12-b of the Act). Yes
    No       

              The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $33,434 million based on the
closing sale price on the New York Stock Exchange for such stock on June 30, 2011.   

As
of January 31, 2012, Simon Property Group, Inc. had 297,740,804 and 8,000 shares of common stock and Class B common stock outstanding, respectively.   

Documents Incorporated By Reference     

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV; and portions of the Registrant's Proxy
Statement in connection with its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III.   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   Annual Report on Form 10-K   December 31, 2011        

           TABLE OF CONTENTS            

Item No.    

Page No.    

Part I    

1.   
      
     Business   
      
     3   

1A.   
     
    Risk Factors   
     
    8   

1B.   
     
    Unresolved Staff Comments   
     
    12   

2.   
     
    Properties   
     
    13   

3.   
     
    Legal Proceedings   
     
    48   

4.   
     
    [Removed and Reserved.]   
     
    48   

Part II    

5.   
      
     Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
     49   

6.   
     
    Selected Financial Data   
     
    50   

7.   
     
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
     
    50   

7A.   
     
    Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk   
     
    50   

8.   
     
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
     
    50   

9.   
     
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     
    50   

9A.   
     
    Controls and Procedures   
     
    50   

9B.   
     
    Other Information   
     
    50   

Part III    

10.   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
     51   

11.   
     
    Executive Compensation   
     
    51   

12.   
     
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
     
    51   

13.   
     
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   
     
    51   

14.   
     
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
     
    51   

Part IV    

15.   
      
     Exhibits, and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
     52   

Signatures      
      
     53   

2  

Table of Contents    

Part I            

Item 1.    Business            

Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, among other things, a company must distribute at least 90% of its taxable income
to its stockholders annually. Taxes are paid by stockholders on ordinary dividends received and any capital gains distributed. Most states also follow this federal treatment and do not require REITs
to pay state income tax. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is a majority-owned partnership
subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties and other assets. In this discussion, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2011, we owned or held an interest in 326 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 151 regional malls, 58 Premium Outlets, 66
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties in the Mills Portfolio, and 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the 36 properties in the Mills portfolio, 16 of
these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. Internationally, as of December 31, 2011, we had an ownership interest in a joint venture which owned 45
shopping centers in Italy. On January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership in this venture to our venture partner. Additionally, we had ownership interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan,
two Premium Outlets in South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia.   

              For
a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2011, see the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" section of the 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.   

Other Policies     

              The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect
to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.   

Investment Policies      

While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may invest in equity or debt securities of other entities engaged in real estate
activities or securities of other issuers. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification. These
REIT limitations mean that we cannot make an investment that would cause our real estate assets to be less than 75% of our total assets. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income must be derived
directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including "rents from real property," dividends from other REITs and, in certain circumstances,
interest from certain types of temporary investments. At least 95% of our income must be derived from such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or
dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.   

Subject
to REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be
in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire
all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs,
management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.   

Financing Policies      

Because our REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, we regularly access the debt markets to
raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our
ratio of debt to total assets or market value, as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership's line of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership's debt securities contain covenants
that restrict the total amount of debt of the Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related arrangement, and secured debt to 50% of
total assets. In addition, these agreements contain other covenants requiring   

  3  

Table of Contents   

  compliance
with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for our equity securities and the debt
securities of the Operating Partnership. We strive to maintain investment grade ratings at all times, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future.   

              If
our Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may also raise such capital by offering equity or debt securities, creating joint ventures with existing ownership
interests in properties, retaining cash flows or a combination of these methods. If the Board of Directors determines to raise additional equity capital, it may, without stockholder approval, issue
additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. The Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital in any manner and on such terms and for such
consideration as it deems appropriate. Such securities may be senior to the outstanding classes of common stock. Such securities also may include additional classes of preferred stock, which may be
convertible into common stock. Existing stockholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares in any subsequent offering of our securities. Any such offering could dilute a stockholder's investment
in us.   

              We
expect most future borrowings would be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings that would be reloaned to the Operating
Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be
secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or cross-collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by the Operating
Partnership. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly be required to do so.   

              On
October 5, 2011, the Operating Partnership entered into a new unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility, providing an initial borrowing capacity of
$4.0 billion, which can be increased at our option to $5.0 billion
during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole option. The Credit Facility replaced a $3.9 billion
unsecured revolving credit facility. We issue debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may issue our debt securities which may be convertible into capital stock or be accompanied by
warrants to purchase capital stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables. The proceeds from any borrowings or financings may be used for one or more of the
following:  

financing acquisitions;   
           developing or redeveloping properties;   
           refinancing existing indebtedness;   
           working capital or capital improvements; or   
           meeting the taxable income distribution requirements applicable to REITs, if we have taxable income without the receipt of
cash sufficient to enable us to meet such distribution requirements.    

We
may also finance acquisitions through the following:  

issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock of Simon Property;   
           issuance of additional units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units;    
           issuance of preferred units of the Operating Partnership;   
           issuance of other securities including unsecured notes and mortgage debt; or    
           sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties.    

The
ability of the Operating Partnership to issue units to transferors of properties or other partnership interests may permit the transferor to defer gain recognition for tax purposes.   

              We
do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, usually limit additional
indebtedness on such properties. Additionally, our unsecured credit facility and unsecured note indentures, contain limits on mortgage indebtedness we may incur.   

              Typically,
we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a
single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage interest on the property or properties in favor of an institutional third   

  4  

Table of Contents   

  party,
as a joint venture with a third party, or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities, which
are common in the real estate industry, are structured so that they would not be consolidated in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a parent company. We decide upon the structure of the financing based
upon the best terms then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of
special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.   

Conflict of Interest Policies      

We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted
governance principles governing the function, conduct, selection, orientation and duties of our Board of Directors and the Company, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of
the Board of Directors. In addition, we have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of our officers, directors, and employees. At least a majority of the members of our
Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards for New York Stock Exchange companies and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family who are significant stockholders and/or
unitholders in the Operating Partnership. Any transaction between us and the Simons, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must be
approved by a majority of our non-affiliated directors.   

              The
sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simons and/or other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to
avoid any conflict of interest between Simon Property Group and the Simons, our charter requires that at least six of our independent directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to
sell any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by Herbert Simon and David Simon contain covenants limiting their
ability to participate in certain shopping center activities in North America.   

Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities      

We intend to make investments which are consistent with our qualification as a REIT; unless the Board of Directors determines that it
is no longer in our best interests to so qualify as a REIT. The Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. We have
authority to offer shares of our capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other securities. We may
issue shares of our common stock, or cash at our option, to holders of units in future periods upon exercise of such holders' rights under the Operating Partnership agreement. Our policy prohibits us
from making any loans to our directors or executive officers for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate. Additionally, we may make or buy interests in loans for
real estate properties owned by others.   

    Competition     

              The retail industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels including regional malls,
outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with internet retailing sites and catalogs which provide retailers with
distribution options beyond existing brick and mortar retail properties. The existence of competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level
of rents we can obtain. This results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including land for
development and operating properties). We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers including:  

the quality, location and diversity of our properties;   
           our management and operational expertise;   
           our extensive experience and relationships with retailers and lenders; and    
           our mall marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances.    
 
  5  

Table of Contents   

    Certain Activities     

              During the past three years, we have:  

issued 2,698,546 shares of common stock upon the exchange of units of limited partnership interest of the Operating
Partnership;   
           issued 487,838 restricted shares of common stock and 1,133,673 long-term incentive performance units, or LTIP
units, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 1998 Plan;   
           issued 608,284 shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options under the 1998 Plan, net of 76,969 shares used to fund
withholding tax;   
           issued 6,670,589 shares of common stock upon the conversion of 7,871,276 shares of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Stock, or Series I preferred stock;   
           redeemed 219,879 shares of Series I preferred stock;   
           issued 11,876,076 shares of common stock as part of quarterly dividends in 2009 to common stockholders;    
           issued 23,000,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $50.00 per share;    
           issued 17,250,000 shares of common stock in a public offering at a public offering price of $31.50 per share;    
           issued 500,891 shares of Series I preferred stock upon the exchange of Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual
Preferred Units, or Series I preferred units;   
           retired 61,584 shares of common stock;   
           issued 6,857 shares of common stock held in treasury;   
           entered into a new Credit Facility on October 5, 2011 which provides an initial borrowing capacity of
$4.0 billion and can be increased at our option to $5.0 billion during its term;   
           borrowed a maximum amount of $1.8 billion under the Credit Facility and the predecessor facility; the outstanding
amount of borrowings under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011 was $952.7 million, of which $287.7 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of
Yen-denominated borrowings;   
           provided annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and
quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders;   
           not made loans to other entities or persons, including our officers and directors, other than to certain joint venture
properties and certain loans for real estate properties owned by others;   
           not invested in the securities of other issuers for the purpose of exercising control, other than the Operating
Partnership, certain wholly-owned subsidiaries and to acquire indirect interests in real estate;   
           not underwritten securities of other issuers; and   
           not engaged in the purchase and sale or turnover of investments for the purpose of trading.    

Employees     

              At December 31, 2011, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,500 persons at various properties and offices throughout
the United States, of which approximately 2,200 were part-time. Approximately 1,000 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana and 100 were
located at our Premium Outlets offices in Roseland, New Jersey.   

    Corporate Headquarters     

Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is
(317) 636-1600.   

    Available Information     

              We are a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or
Exchange Act) and are required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S-K, to provide certain information regarding   

  6  

Table of Contents   

  our
website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information" section of our Internet website as
soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not
intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

              The
following corporate governance documents are also available through the "About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance" section of our Internet website or may be obtained in
print form by request of our Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and
Nominating Committee Charter, and Executive Committee Charter.   

In
addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed
pursuant to rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE.   

Executive Officers of the Registrant     

              The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers as of December 31, 2011.   

Name

Age    
     
   Position    

David Simon  

50  
     
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard S. Sokolov  

62  
     
      President and Chief Operating Officer  

David J. Contis  

53  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President   President Simon Malls  

Stephen E. Sterrett  

56  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

John Rulli  

55  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer  

Gary L. Lewis  

53  
     
      Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing  

James M. Barkley  

60  
     
      General Counsel; Secretary  

Andrew A. Juster  

59  
     
      Executive Vice President and Treasurer  

Steve Fivel  

51  
     
      Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary  

Steven K. Broadwater  

45  
     
      Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  

The
executive officers of Simon Property serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. For biographical information of David Simon, Richard S. Sokolov, Stephen E. Sterrett, James M.
Barkley and John Rulli, see Item 10 of this report.   

              Mr. Lewis
is the Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing of Simon Property. Mr. Lewis joined Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., or MSA, in
1986 and held various positions with MSA and Simon Property prior to becoming Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing. In 2002 he was appointed to Executive Vice President of Leasing
and in 2007 he became Senior Executive Vice President and President of Leasing.   

              Mr. Contis
is the Senior Executive Vice President and President of Simon Malls. Mr. Contis joined Simon Property in 2011. Mr. Contis has over 30 years of
domestic and international real estate experience including 20 years overseeing both public and private mall portfolios.   

              Mr. Juster
serves as Simon Property's Executive Vice President and Treasurer. He joined MSA in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has
held various positions with Simon Property. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008.   

              Mr. Fivel
serves as Simon Property's Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to rejoining Simon in 2011, Mr. Fivel served in a similar capacity with a
large public registrant. Mr. Fivel was previously with Simon Property from 1993 to 1997.   

              Mr. Broadwater
serves as Simon Property's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater
joined Simon Property in 2004 and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.   

  7  

Table of Contents    

Item 1A.    Risk Factors            

The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should
not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties and we may update them in our future periodic reports.   

    Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets     

We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.      

As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the related premium and discount, totaled
$18.4 billion. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our
debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants, cause a reduction in the income from the property.
Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and income from this is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the
property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.   

Disruption in the credit markets or downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect our ability to access external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service
requirements.      

We depend on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet
ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. We cannot assure you
that we will be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms.   

Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.      

Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The
credit ratings are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and
the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund
our growth, adverse changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth.   

Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.      

We selectively manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or
cap a portion of our variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be
successful.   

              Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Termination of these hedging
agreements typically involves costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs.   

    Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations     

We face risks associated with the acquisition, development, redevelopment and expansion of properties.      

We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing properties, and these activities are subject to
various risks. We may not be successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/   

  8  

Table of Contents   

expansion
opportunities. In addition, newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not perform as well as expected. We are subject to other risks in connection with any
acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following:  

construction costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable;    
           we may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance loans on favorable terms, if at all;    
           we may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals;    
           occupancy rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and    
           we may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those
consents may be withheld.    

If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project.   

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.      

Our properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a
result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a property, we cannot
assure you that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a property will exceed the cost of our investment.   

    Environmental Risks     

As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.      

Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous
owner or operator of real property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose
liability regardless of whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or
removal of asbestos containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the
air. Those laws and regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our properties contain,
or at one time contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs
of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The
presence of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a property or to borrow using a property as collateral.   

Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.      

Although we believe that our portfolio is in substantial compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and
regulations regarding hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of our properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These
environmental audits have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
However, we cannot assure you that:  

existing environmental studies with respect to the portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities;    
           any previous owner, occupant or tenant of a property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us;    
           the current environmental condition of the portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of
nearby properties, or by other unrelated third parties; or    
 
  9  

Table of Contents   

future uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the
interpretation thereof) will not result in environmental liabilities.    

Retail Operations Risks     

Overall economic conditions may adversely affect the general retail environment.      

Our concentration in the retail real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally,
including the levels of consumer spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, increasing use of the
internet by retailers and consumers, consumer confidence, casualties and other natural disasters, and the potential for terrorist activities. The economy and consumer spending appear to be recovering
from the effects of the recent recession. We derive our cash flow from operations primarily from retail tenants, many of whom have been and continue to be under some degree of economic stress. A
significant deterioration in our cash flow from operations could require us to curtail planned capital expenditures or seek alternative sources of financing.   

We may not be able to lease newly developed properties and renew leases and relet space at existing properties.      

We may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections.
Also, when leases for our existing properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than
the current lease terms. To the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected. Changes in economic and
operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other assets could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future
charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

Some of our properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these
tenants.      

Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large nationally recognized tenants. The value of some of our
properties could be adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store
and larger store, also referred to as "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate or geographically overlapping store locations. We do not control the
disposition of those department stores or larger stores that we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be
entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and could decrease rents or expense recovery charges.
Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline
significantly due to closing of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or
anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties.   

We face potential adverse effects from tenant bankruptcies.      

Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur regularly in the course of our operations. We continually seek to re-lease vacant
spaces caused by tenant bankruptcies. However, our efforts to release the vacated space may not be successful. Additionally, the bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more
difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect our properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing
strategy.   

    Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties     

We have limited control with respect to some properties that are partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance
them.      

As of December 31, 2011, we owned interests in 164 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 20 properties are
included in our consolidated financial statements. We account for the other 144 properties under the   

  10  

Table of Contents   

  equity
method of accounting, which we refer to as joint venture properties. We serve as general partner or property manager for 85 of these 144 properties; however, certain major decisions, such as
approving the operating budget and selling, refinancing and redeveloping the properties require the consent of the other owners. Of the properties for which we do not serve as general partner or
property manager, 57 are in our international joint ventures. The other owners also have other participating rights that we consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the
properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties.   

The Operating Partnership guarantees debt or otherwise provides support for a number of joint venture properties.      

Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture property. As of
December 31, 2011, the Operating Partnership has loan guarantees to support $30.2 million of our total $6.5 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness. A
default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter of credit.   

Other Factors Affecting Our Business     

Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.      

CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services,
administrative, property and liability insurance costs, and security costs. We have leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. We have converted a substantial
portion of our leases to a fixed payment methodology which fixes our tenants' CAM contributions and should in turn reduce the volatility of and limitations on the recoveries we collect from our
tenants for the reimbursement of our property operating expenses. However, with respect to both variable and fixed payment methodologies, the amount of CAM charges we bill to our tenants may not allow
us to recover all of these operating costs.   

We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.      

Our properties compete with other retail properties and other forms of retailing such as catalogs and e-commerce websites.
Competition may come from regional malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers, both existing as well as future development projects. The presence of competitive
alternatives affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. New construction, renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect our properties. We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for tenants and qualified management.   

Our international expansion may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.      

As of December 31, 2011, we held interests in joint venture properties that operate in Italy (our interests in which were sold
in January 2012), Japan, South Korea, Mexico, and Malaysia. We also hold a minority investment in two U.K. real estate companies. We may pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United
States. International development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our domestic properties and operations. These risks
include:  

adverse effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies;   
           changes in foreign political and economic environments, regionally, nationally, and locally;    
           challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and
litigation;   
           differing lending practices;   
           differences in cultures;   
           changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations;    
           difficulties in managing international operations; and    
 
  11  

Table of Contents   

obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash.    

Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented approximately 5.4% of the gross leasable area of all
of our properties at December 31,
2011), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   

Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.      

We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd., or other financial arrangements
controlled by us. The third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar policy written
through our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims, which generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue it could generate.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The
current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate
could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

    Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes     

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT.      

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the
Internal Revenue Code. We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner which allows us to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. We intend to continue to operate in
this manner. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of
stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. REIT qualification is governed by highly technical and complex provisions for which there are only limited
judicial or administrative interpretations. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT.   

              If
we fail to comply with those provisions, we may be subject to monetary penalties or to possible disqualification as a REIT. If such events occurs, and if available relief provisions
do not apply:  

we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income;    
           we will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income
at regular corporate rates; and   
           unless entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for
the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.     

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments            

              None.   

  12  

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    Properties            

United States Properties      

Our U.S. properties primarily consist of regional malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, community/lifestyle centers, and other properties.
These properties contain an aggregate of approximately 242.2 million square feet of gross leasable area, or GLA, of which we own approximately 153.9 million square feet. A total
estimated retail sale at the properties in 2011 was approximately $65 billion.   

              Regional
malls typically contain at least one traditional department store anchor or a combination of anchors and big box retailers with a wide variety of smaller stores connecting the
anchors. Additional stores are usually located along the perimeter of the parking area. Our 151 regional malls are generally enclosed centers and range in size from approximately 400,000 to
2.4 million square feet of GLA. Our regional malls contain in the aggregate more than 17,500 occupied stores, including approximately 692 anchors, which are predominately national retailers.
For comparative purposes, we separate the information in this section on the 16 regional malls in the Mills portfolio from the information on our other regional malls.   

              Premium
Outlets generally contain a wide variety of designer and manufacturer stores located in open-air centers. Our 58 Premium Outlets range in size from approximately
150,000 to 850,000 square feet of GLA. The Premium Outlets are generally located near major metropolitan areas and tourist destinations including New York City, Los Angeles, Boston, Palm Springs,
Orlando, Las Vegas, and Honolulu.   

              The
Mills generally range in size from 1.0 million to 2.2 million square feet of GLA and are located in major metropolitan areas. They have a combination of traditional
mall, outlet center, and big box retailers and entertainment uses. The Mills regional malls typically range in size from 800,000 to 1.3 million square feet of GLA and contain a wide variety of
national retailers.   

              Community/lifestyle
centers are generally unenclosed and smaller than our regional malls. Our 66 community/lifestyle centers generally range in size from approximately 100,000 to
950,000 square feet of GLA. Community/lifestyle centers are designed to serve a larger trade area and typically contain anchor stores and other national retail tenants, which occupy a significant
portion of the GLA of the center. We also own traditional community shopping centers that focus primarily on value-oriented and convenience goods and services. These centers are usually anchored by a
supermarket, discount retailer, or drugstore and are designed to service a neighborhood area. Finally, we own open-air centers adjacent to our regional malls designed to take advantage of
the drawing power of the mall.   

              We
also have interests in 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers. These properties range in size from approximately 85,000 to 700,000 square feet of GLA, are considered
non-core to our business model, and in total represent less than 1% of our total operating income before depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2011, approximately 94.8% of the owned GLA in regional malls and Premium Outlets and the retail space of the other properties was leased, approximately 95.0%
of the owned GLA for The Mills and 88.6% of owned GLA for the Mills regional malls was leased, and approximately 93.4% of owned GLA in the community/lifestyle centers was leased.   

              We
hold a 100% interest in 219 of our properties, effectively control 20 properties in which we have a joint venture interest, and hold the remaining 87 properties through
unconsolidated joint venture interests. We are the managing or co-managing general partner or member of 324 properties. Substantially all of our joint venture properties are subject to
rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale rights for all partners which are customary in real estate partnership agreements and the industry. Our partners in our joint
ventures may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions) which will result in either the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire their partnership
interest or the disposal of our partnership interest.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our regional malls and Premium Outlets, The Mills, the Mills regional malls and community/lifestyle centers located in the
United States, including Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2011.   

  13  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

14  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

15  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

16  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

17  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

18  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

19  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

20  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

Premium Outlets   

1.  
     
   Albertville Premium Outlets  
     
   MN  
     
   Albertville (Minneapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

92.8%  

429,557  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

2.  
     
   Allen Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Allen (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.6%  

441,740  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy
Hilfiger  

3.  
     
   Aurora Farms Premium Outlets  
     
   OH  
     
   Aurora (Cleveland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.4%  

300,281  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

4.  
     
   Birch Run Premium Outlets  
     
   MI  
     
   Birch Run  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

91.6%  

678,728  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, J.Crew, Lacoste, Nike, The North Face, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

5.  
     
   Calhoun Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Calhoun  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

93.9%  

254,005  
     
   Ann Taylor, Carter's, Coach, Gap Outlet, Gymboree, Jones New York, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

6.  
     
   Camarillo Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Camarillo (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

674,015  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory
Burch  

7.  
     
   Carlsbad Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Carlsbad (San Diego)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

288,307  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

8.  
     
   Carolina Premium Outlets  
     
   NC  
     
   Smithfield  
     
   Ground Lease (2029)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.5%  

438,998  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

9.  
     
   Chicago Premium Outlets  
     
   IL  
     
   Aurora (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2004  

99.7%  

437,359  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Diesel, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Giorgio Armani, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Sony,
Theory  

10.  
     
   Cincinnati Premium Outlets  
     
   OH  
     
   Monroe (Cincinnati)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2009  

99.5%  

398,803  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, HanesBrands, J.Crew, Kenneth Cole, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger, The North Face  

11.  
     
   Clinton Crossing Premium Outlets  
     
   CT  
     
   Clinton  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.4%  

276,166  
     
   Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger  

12.  
     
   Columbia Gorge Premium Outlets  
     
   OR  
     
   Troutdale (Portland)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

91.4%  

163,708  
     
   Adidas, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Guess, Gymboree, Levi's, Samsonite, Tommy Hilfiger  

21  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

13.  
     
   Desert Hills Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Cabazon (Palm Springs)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.9%  

501,686  
     
   Burberry, Coach, Dior, Elie Tahari, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tory Burch, True Religion, Yves
Saint Laurent, Zegna  

14.  
     
   Edinburgh Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Edinburgh (Indianapolis)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

377,694  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

15.  
     
   Ellenton Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   Ellenton (Tampa)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.6%  

476,651  
     
   Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Movado, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th  

16.  
     
   Folsom Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Folsom (Sacramento)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.8%  

297,969  
     
   BCBG Max Azria, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Nautica, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

17.  
     
   Gaffney Premium Outlets  
     
   SC  
     
   Gaffney  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

90.8%  

359,658  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren  

18.  
     
   Gilroy Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Gilroy (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.4%  

577,856  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Elie Tahari, J.Crew, Hugo Boss, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion  

19.  
     
   Grove City Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Grove City  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.3%  

531,772  
     
   American Eagle, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Under Armour  

20.  
     
   Gulfport Premium Outlets  
     
   MS  
     
   Gulfport  
     
   Ground Lease (2034)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

92.3%  

299,780  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Jones New York, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

21.  
     
   Hagerstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Hagerstown  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

95.6%  

485,158  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Lee Jeans, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

22.  
     
   Houston Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Cypress (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2008  

99.5%  

541,577  
     
   Ann Taylor, A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Lucky Brand, Michael Kors, Nike, Saks Fifth Avenue off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger,
 Tory Burch  

23.  
     
   Jackson Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Jackson (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0%  
     
   Acquired 2004  

100.0  
  %  
     
   285,680  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

24.  
     
   Jersey Shore Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Tinton Falls (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2008  

99.8%  

434,443  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Brooks Brothers, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Guess, J.Crew, Kate Spade New York, Michael Kors, Nike, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Under Armour  

25.  
     
   Johnson Creek Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Johnson Creek  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

91.8%  

277,673  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Columbia Sportswear, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

26.  
     
   Kittery Premium Outlets  
     
   ME  
     
   Kittery  
     
   Ground Lease (2014)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.5%  

264,838  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Chico's, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

22  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

27.  
     
   Las Americas Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   San Diego  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2007  

99.7%  

560,906  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Sony, Tommy Bahama, True Religion  

28.  
     
   Las Vegas Premium Outlets North  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2003  

99.6%  

538,689  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, David Yurman, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Elie Tahari, Etro, Hugo Boss, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, St. John, TAG
Heuer, Ted Baker, True Religion  

29.  
     
   Las Vegas Premium Outlets South  
     
   NV  
     
   Las Vegas  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

94.9%  

535,136  
     
   Adidas, Aeropostale, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bose, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Gymboree, Kenneth Cole, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Reebok, Tommy Hilfiger  

30.  
     
   Lebanon Premium Outlets  
     
   TN  
     
   Lebanon (Nashville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

93.4%  

227,119  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Samsonite, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

31.  
     
   Lee Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Lee  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.1%  

224,846  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, J.Crew, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

32.  
     
   Leesburg Corner Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Leesburg (Washington D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.3%  

518,003  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Coach, Diesel, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Juicy Couture, Lacoste, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Under Armour, Williams-Sonoma  

33.  
     
   Liberty Village Premium Outlets  
     
   NJ  
     
   Flemington (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

78.5%  

164,626  
     
   Ann Taylor, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

34.  
     
   Lighthouse Place Premium Outlets  
     
   IN  
     
   Michigan City  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.5%  

454,542  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

35.  
     
   Napa Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Napa  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

95.9%  

179,349  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Lucky Brand, Nautica, Tommy Hilfiger  

36.  
     
   North Bend Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   North Bend (Seattle)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.1%  

223,561  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Bass, Carter's, Coach, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Izod, Nike, Nine West, PacSun, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, Van Heusen, VF Outlet  

23  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

37.  
     
   North Georgia Premium Outlets  
     
   GA  
     
   Dawsonville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

97.7%  

540,320  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Talbots,
Tommy Hilfiger, Williams-Sonoma  

38.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets International Dr  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.3%  

773,429  
     
   7 For All Mankind, Betsey Johnson, Coach, DKNY, Escada, J.Crew, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Victoria's Secret  

39.  
     
   Orlando Premium Outlets Vineland Ave  
     
   FL  
     
   Orlando  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

549,651  
     
   Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tag Heuer, Theory, Tory Burch, Vera Bradley  

40.  
     
   Osage Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   MO  
     
   Osage Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

90.5%  

392,790  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Eddie Bauer, Gap Outlet, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger  

41.  
     
   Petaluma Village Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Petaluma  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

93.4  
  %  
     
   195,738  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Gap Outlet, Nike, Puma, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Hilfiger  

42.  
     
   Philadelphia Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Limerick (Philadelphia)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2007  

99.1%  

549,143  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware,
Sony  

43.  
     
   Pismo Beach Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Pismo Beach  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

98.0%  

147,728  
     
   Aeropostale, Calvin Klein, Carter's, Coach, Guess, Jones New York, Levi's, Nike, Nine West, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Van Heusen  

44.  
     
   Pleasant Prairie Premium Outlets  
     
   WI  
     
   Pleasant Prairie  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

100.0%  

402,502  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Sony, St. John  

45.  
     
   Puerto Rico Premium Outlets  
     
   PR  
     
   Barceloneta  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

95.7%  

344,748  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Nine West, Polo Ralph Lauren, Puma, Tommy Hilfiger  

46.  
     
   Queenstown Premium Outlets  
     
   MD  
     
   Queenstown (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.7%  

284,374  
     
   Adidas, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gucci, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Kate Spade New York, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots  

24  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

47.  
     
   Rio Grande Valley Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Mercedes (McAllen)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2006  

94.8%  

584,790  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, DKNY, Gap Outlet, Guess, Hugo Boss, Loft Outlet, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sony, Tommy
Hilfiger  

48.  
     
   Round Rock Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   Round Rock (Austin)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2006  

96.4%  

488,645  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, Guess, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger  

49.  
     
   San Marcos Premium Outlets  
     
   TX  
     
   San Marcos  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

99.6%  

731,078  
     
   Banana Republic, Betsey Johnson, Cole Haan, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Loro Piana, Michael Kors, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Salvatore Ferragamo, Victoria's Secret  

50.  
     
   Seattle Premium Outlets  
     
   WA  
     
   Tulalip (Seattle)  
     
   Ground Lease (2034)  

100.0  
  %  
   Built 2005  

100.0%  

443,827  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Sony, Tommy Bahama, Tommy
Hilfiger  

51.  
     
   St. Augustine Premium Outlets  
     
   FL  
     
   St. Augustine (Jacksonville)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

328,570  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

52.  
     
   The Crossings Premium Outlets  
     
   PA  
     
   Tannersville  
     
   Fee and Ground Lease (2019)(7)  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

411,204  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Coldwater Creek, Guess, J.Crew, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Reebok, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour  

53.  
     
   Vacaville Premium Outlets  
     
   CA  
     
   Vacaville  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

98.7%  

437,336  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Columbia Sportswear, DKNY, Gucci, J.Crew, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Restoration Hardware, Tommy Bahama, Tommy
Hilfiger  

54.  
     
   Waikele Premium Outlets  
     
   HI  
     
   Waipahu (Honolulu)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

100.0%  

209,829  
     
   A/X Armani Exchange, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, Guess, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Tommy Bahama, Tommy Hilfiger, True Religion, Zales Outlet  

55.  
     
   Waterloo Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Waterloo  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.7%  

417,737  
     
   Adidas, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Brooks Brothers, Calvin Klein, Coach, Columbia Sportswear, Gap Outlet, J.Crew, Levi's, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Under Armour, VF Outlet  

56.  
     
   Williamsburg Premium Outlets  
     
   VA  
     
   Williamsburg  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2010  

97.1%  

521,500  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Burberry, Coach, Cole Haan, Dooney   Bourke, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Juicy Couture, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Michael Kors, Nautica, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Talbots  

57.  
     
   Woodbury Common Premium Outlets  
     
   NY  
     
   Central Valley (New York)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

96.7%  

845,428  
     
   Banana Republic, Burberry, Chloe, Coach, Dior, Dolce   Gabbana, Fendi, Giorgio Armani, Gucci, Lacoste, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike, Oscar de la Renta, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tory Burch, Valentino, Versace, Yves St. Laurent  

58.  
     
   Wrentham Village Premium Outlets  
     
   MA  
     
   Wrentham (Boston)  
     
   Fee  

100.0  
  %  
   Acquired 2004  

99.5%  

660,004  
     
   Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Bloomingdale's The Outlet Store, Brooks Brothers, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Coach, Cole Haan, Elie Tahari, Hugo Boss, J.Crew, Lacoste, Movado, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th,
 Salvatore Ferragamo, Sony, Williams-Sonoma, Theory, Tommy Hilfiger, Tory Burch, True Religion, Under Armour  

Total U.S. Premium Outlets GLA   

24,381,250   

25  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

26  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

27  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

28  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

29  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

30  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

Mills Properties   

The Mills     

1.  
     
   Arizona Mills  
     
   AZ  
     
   Tempe (Phoenix)  
     
   Fee  

25.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

96.1%  

1,253,037  
     
   Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Burlington Coat Factory, Sears Appliance Outlet, Gameworks, Sports Authority, Ross Dress for Less, JCPenney Outlet, Group USA, Harkins Cinemas  
IMAX, Sea Life Center  

2.  
     
   Arundel Mills  
     
   MD  
     
   Hanover (Baltimore)  
     
   Fee  

29.6  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.6%  

1,566,033  
     
   Bass Pro Shops, Bed Bath   Beyond, Best Buy, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Dave   Buster's, F.Y.E., H M, Medieval Times, Modell's, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Saks
Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, T.J. Maxx, Cinemark Egyptian 24 Theatres, Maryland Live! Casino (6)  

3.  
     
   Colorado Mills  
     
   CO  
     
   Lakewood (Denver)  
     
   Fee  

18.8  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

86.5%  

1,097,757  
     
   Eddie Bauer Outlet, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sports Authority, Super Target, United Artists Theatre, Burlington Coat Factory  

4.  
     
   Concord Mills  
     
   NC  
     
   Concord (Charlotte)  
     
   Fee  

29.6  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.8%  

1,334,264  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, The Children's Place Outlet, Dave   Buster's, Nike Factory Store, T.J. Maxx, Group USA, Sun   Ski, VF
Outlet, Off Broadway Shoes, Bed Bath   Beyond, NASCAR Speedpark, AMC Theatres, Best Buy  

5.  
     
   Discover Mills  
     
   GA  
     
   Lawrenceville (Atlanta)  
     
   Fee  

25.0  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

88.9%  

1,183,027  
     
   Bass Pro Shops, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Medieval Times, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Ross Dress for Less, Sears Appliance Outlet, Sun  
Ski Sports, Dave   Buster's, AMC Theatres  

6.  
     
   Franklin Mills  
     
   PA  
     
   Philadelphia  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

88.2%  

1,735,852  
     
   Dave   Buster's, JC Penney (6), Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls HomeGoods, Modell's Sporting Goods, Group USA, Bed Bath   Beyond, Sam Ash Music, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Last Call by Neiman Marcus,
Off Broadway Shores, Sears Appliance Outlet, H M, AMC Theatres, Forever 21  

7.  
     
   Grapevine Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Grapevine (Dallas)  
     
   Fee  

29.6  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.0%  

1,777,336  
     
   Bed, Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, The Children's Place, Group USA, JCPenney Outlet, Marshalls, Nike Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, AMC Theatres, Dr. Pepper Star Center,
 Sun   Ski Sports, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Sears Appliance Outlet, Bass Pro Outdoor World, Off Broadway Shoes, VF Outlet, Legoland Discovery Center, Sea Life Center, Ross Dress for Less  

8.  
     
   Great Mall  
     
   CA  
     
   Milpitas (San Jose)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

97.7%  

1,361,692  
     
   Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Sports Authority, Group USA, Kohl's, Dave   Busters, Sears Appliance Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Nike Factory Store, Century Theatres, Bed
Bath   Beyond  

9.  
     
   Gurnee Mills  
     
   IL  
     
   Gurnee (Chicago)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

97.6%  

1,782,927  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath   Beyond, Burlington Coat Factory, Kohl's, Marshalls Home Goods, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Rinkside, Sears Grand, The Sports Authority, T.J. Maxx, VF Outlet, Marcus
Cinemas, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Value City Furniture, Shoppers World, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Macy's (21)  

31  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

Property Name

State    
     
   City (CBSA)    
     
   Ownership Interest 
(Expiration if 
Lease)(3)    
     
   Legal Ownership    
     
   Year Built 
or 
Acquired    
     
   Occupancy(5)    
     
   Total GLA    
     
   Retail Anchors and Selected Major Tenants    

10.  
     
   Katy Mills  
     
   TX  
     
   Katy (Houston)  
     
   Fee  

31.3  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

94.9%  

1,555,948  
     
   Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed Bath and Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike Factory Store, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Sun   Ski Sports, AMC Theatres,
Off Broadway Shoes, Tilt  

11.  
     
   Ontario Mills  
     
   CA  
     
   Ontario (Riverside)  
     
   Fee  

25.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.0%  

1,463,988  
     
   Burlington Coat Factory, Nike Factory Store, Gameworks, The Children's Place Outlet, Marshalls, JCPenney Outlet, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Bed Bath   Beyond, Nordstrom Rack, Dave   Busters, Group USA,
Sam Ash Music, Off Broadway Shoes, AMC Theatres, Sports Authority, Forever 21, Last Call by Neiman Marcus (6)  

12.  
     
   Opry Mills  
     
   TN  
     
   Nashville  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

(17)  

1,159,953  
     
   Regal Cinema   IMAX, Dave   Busters, VF Outlet, Sun   Ski, Bass Pro Shops, Forever 21 (6), Bed Bath   Beyond (6), Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th (6), Off Broadway Shoes (6),
(18)  

13.  
     
   Outlets at Orange, The  
     
   CA  
     
   Orange (Los Angeles)  
     
   Fee  

25.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

93.3%  

723,495  
     
   Dave   Buster's, Vans Skatepark, Lucky Strike Lanes, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, AMC Theatres, Nike Factory Store, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Off Broadway Shoes, Nordstrom Rack (6), Sports Authority
(6)  

14.  
     
   Potomac Mills  
     
   VA  
     
   Prince William (Washington, D.C.)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

99.2%  

1,518,937  
     
   Group USA, Marshalls, T.J. Maxx, Sears Appliance Outlet, JCPenney (6), Burlington Coat Factory, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Nordstrom Rack, Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th Outlet, Costco Warehouse, The Children's Place,
AMC Theatres, Modell's Sporting Goods, Books-A-Million, H M, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, XXI Forever, Bloomingdale's Outlet  

15.  
     
   Sawgrass Mills  
     
   FL  
     
   Sunrise (Miami)  
     
   Fee  

50.0  
  %(4)  
   Acquired 2007  

98.7%  

2,151,121  
     
   American Signature Home, Beall's Outlet, Bed Bath   Beyond, Brandsmart USA, Burlington Coat Factory, Gameworks, JCPenney Outlet Store, Marshalls, Last Call by Neiman Marcus, Nike Factory Store, Nordstrom Rack,
Saks Fifth Avenue Off 5th, Ron Jon Surf Shop, The Sports Authority, Super Target, T.J. Maxx, VF Factory Outlet, F.Y.E., Off Broadway Shoes, Regal Cinema, Bloomingdale's Outlet, Forever 21 (6)  

16.  
     
   St. Louis Mills  
     
   MO  
     
   Hazelwood (St. Louis)  
     
   Fee  

25.0  
  %(4)(2)  
   Acquired 2007  

84.1%  

1,174,839  
     
   Bed Bath   Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, Cabela's, iceZONE, Marshalls MegaStore, NASCAR SpeedPark, Off Broadway Shoe Warehouse, Sears Appliance Outlet, The Children's Place Outlet, Regal
Cinema, Plan 9 Skatepark  

Subtotal The Mills    

22,840,206   

32  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

33  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Property Table     

    U.S. Properties     

34  

Table of Contents   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    This
property is managed by a third party.
      (2)    Our
direct and indirect interests in some of the properties held as joint venture interests are subject to preferences on distributions in favor of other
partners or us.
      (3)    The
date listed is the expiration date of the last renewal option available to the operating entity under the ground lease. In a majority of the ground
leases, we have a right of first refusal or the right to purchase the lessor's interest. Unless otherwise indicated, each ground lease listed in this column covers at least 50% of its respective
property.
      (4)    Joint
venture properties accounted for under the equity method.
      (5)    Regional
Malls Executed leases for all company-owned GLA in mall stores, excluding majors. P remium Outlets Executed leases for all
company-owned GLA (or total center GLA). Community/Lifestyle Centers Executed leases for all company-owned GLA including majors and mall stores.
      (6)    Indicates
anchor or major that is currently under development.
      (7)    Indicates
ground lease covers less than 50% of the acreage of this property.
      (8)    Indicates
vacant anchor space(s).
      (9)    The
lease at the Mall at Chestnut Hill includes the entire premises including land and building.
      (10)    Indicates
ground lease covers outparcel only.
      (11)    Indicates
vacant anchor owned by another company, but we still collect rent and/or fees under an agreement.
      (12)    We
receive substantially all the economic benefit of the property due to a preference or advance.
      (13)    Outside
partner receives substantially all of the economic benefit due to a partner preference.
      (14)    We
own a mortgage note that encumbers Pheasant Lane Mall that entitles us to 100% of the economics of this property.
      (15)    Our
indirect ownership interest is through an approximately 76% ownership interest in Kravco Simon Investments.
      (16)    Mall  
Freestanding GLA includes office space. Centers with more than 20,000 square feet of office space are listed below:    

(17)    Property
remains partially closed due to flood damage incurred during May 2010 with restoration expected to be complete and the property reopened in March
2012.
      (18)    Our
interests in the property were sold effective January 1, 2012.
      (19)    The
center is being de-malled through a major redevelopment.
      (20)    We
purchased an additional interest in the property on January 6, 2012, bringing our ownership to 50%.
      (21)    Tenant
expected to open in 2013.    
  35  

Table of Contents    

United States Lease Expirations      

The following table summarizes lease expiration data for our regional malls and Premium Outlets located in the United States, including
Puerto Rico, as of December 31, 2011. The data does not include information for The Mills and the Mills regional malls. The data presented does not consider the impact of renewal options that
may be contained in leases.   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries   U.S. Lease Expirations   Regional Malls and Premium Outlets   As of December 31, 2011            

(1)    Annual
rental revenues represent the aggregate of 2011 consolidated and joint venture (gross) combined base rental revenue.    

36  

Table of Contents    

    International Properties     

              Our ownership interests in properties outside the United States are primarily owned through joint venture arrangements. However, we
have direct minority investments in certain real estate companies within the U.K. as further described below.   

European Investments      

Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI, is a fully integrated retail real estate developer, owner and manager of
45 properties in Italy with approximately 10.1 million square feet of GLA. At December 31, 2011, we had a 49.0% ownership interest in GCI. Substantially all of these properties
are anchored
by the hypermarket retailer Auchan S.A., who is also our venture partner in GCI. We sold our entire ownership interest in GCI to our venture partner on January 9, 2012.   

Other International Investments      

We also hold real estate interests in eight operating joint venture properties in Japan, two operating joint venture properties in
South Korea, one operating joint venture property in Mexico, and one operating joint venture property in Malaysia. The eight Japanese Premium Outlets operate in various cities throughout Japan and are
held in a joint venture with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. These Japanese centers comprise over 2.6 million square feet of GLA and were 100.0% leased as of December 31, 2011.   

The
following summarizes our holdings in these international joint ventures and the underlying countries in which these joint ventures own and operate real estate properties as of
December 31, 2011:   

Holdings

Ownership Interest    
     
   Properties open and operating    
     
   Countries of Operation    

Chelsea Japan Co. Ltd.   

40.0  
  %  
     
  8  
     
  Japan  

Shinsegae Chelsea (Seoul)  

50.0  
  %  
     
  2  
     
  South Korea  

Premium Outlets Punta Norte (Mexico City)  

50.0  
  %  
     
  1  
     
  Mexico  

Genting Simon Sdn Bhd (Johor)  

50.0  
  %  
     
  1  
     
  Malaysia  

On
March 17, 2011, Paju Premium Outlets, a 328,000 square foot center located in Seoul, South Korea, opened. On July 14, 2011, Tosu Premium Outlets Phase III, a
52,000 square foot expansion to the Tosu Premium Outlet located in Fukuoka, Japan, opened. On December 2, 2011, Johor Premium Outlets, a 190,000 square foot center located in Johor, Malaysia,
opened on December 8, 2011, Ami Premium Outlets Phase II, a 90,000 square foot expansion to the Ami Premium Outlet located in Ami, Japan, opened.   

We
hold investments in two U.K. companies, Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, or CSCG, and Capital   Counties Properties PLC, or CAPC. CSCG operates regional shopping centers
and is the owner of other retail assets primarily located in the United Kingdom. CAPC is predominantly focused on property investment and development in central London. Our interest in CSCG and CAPC
is adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component. Our interests in CSCG and CAPC are approximately 4% and 5% of their outstanding shares, respectively.   

              We
have interests in two European outlet centers, La Vall e Village near Paris, France, and Ingolstadt Village near Munich, Germany. We own direct interests in the
centers and indirect interests through a minority ownership interest in Value Retail PLC.   

              The
following property table summarizes certain data for our properties located in Japan, South Korea, Mexico, and Malaysia at December 31, 2011.   

  37  

Table of Contents    

   Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Properties (2)     

COUNTRY/Property Name    
     
   City (Metropolitan area)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest    
     
   SPG 
Effective 
Ownership    
     
   Year 
Built    
     
   Total Gross 
Leasable Area(1)    
     
   Retail Anchors and 
Major Tenants    

JAPAN   

1.  
     
  Ami Premium Outlets  
     
  Ami (Tokyo)  
     
  Fee  

40.0  
  %  
  2009  

315,000  
     
  Adidas, Banana Republic, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Gap Outlet, Lanvin Collection, Laundry, McGregor, MK Michel Klein, Pal Zileri, Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren  

2.  
     
  Gotemba Premium Outlets  
     
  Gotemba City (Tokyo)  
     
  Fee  

40.0  
  %  
  2000  

481,500  
     
  Armani, Balenciaga, Bally, Beams, Bottega Veneta, Burberry, Coach, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Jill Stuart, Loro Piana, Miu Miu, Moschino, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Prada, Salvatore
Ferragamo, Tod's  

3.  
     
  Kobe-Sanda Premium Outlets  
     
  Hyougo-ken (Osaka)  
     
  Ground Lease (2026)  

40.0  
  %  
  2007  

365,100  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, Banana Republic, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Etro, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Harrod's, Helmut Lang, Hugo Boss, Loro Piana, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore Ferragamo, Theory, Tommy
Hilfiger, Valentino  

4.  
     
  Rinku Premium Outlets  
     
  Izumisano (Osaka)  
     
  Ground Lease (2020)  

40.0  
  %  
  2000  

321,800  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Eddie Bauer, Etro, Furla, Gap Outlet, Hugo Boss, Jill Stuart, Kate Spade, Lacoste, Lanvin
Collection, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren,  

5.  
     
  Sano Premium Outlets  
     
  Sano (Tokyo)  
     
  Ground Lease (2022)  

40.0  
  %  
  2003  

390,800  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Bally, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cynthia Rowley, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Dunhill, Eddie Bauer, Escada, Etro, French Connection, Furla, Gap Outlet, Gucci, Harrod's, Kate Spade, Lanvin
Collection, Miu Miu, Nike, Polo Ralp  

6.  
     
  Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets  
     
  Izumi Park Town (Sendai)  
     
  Ground Lease (2027)  

40.0  
  %  
  2008  

164,200  
     
  Adidas. Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Jill Stuart, Laundry, Levi's, Miss Sixty, Pleats Please Issey Miyake, Ray Ban, Tasaki, Taylor Made  

7.  
     
  Toki Premium Outlets  
     
  Toki (Nagoya)  
     
  Ground Lease (2024)  

40.0  
  %  
  2005  

289,500  
     
  Adidas, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Diesel, Eddie Bauer, Furla, Gap Outlet, Lacoste, Laundry, MK Michel Klein, Nike, Olive des Olive, Polo Ralph Lauren, Timberland, Tommy Hilfiger  

8.  
     
  Tosu Premium Outlets  
     
  Fukuoka (Kyushu)  
     
  Ground Lease (2023)  

40.0  
  %  
  2004  

290,600  
     
  Adidas, Armani Factory Store, BCBG Max Azria, Beams, Bose, Brooks Brothers, Coach, Cole Haan, Courreges, Dolce   Gabbana, Furla, Gap Outlet, Miki House, Nike, Quiksilver, Reebok, Theory, Tommy
Hilfiger  

Subtotal Japan   

2,618,500   

38  

Table of Contents   

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
International Properties (2)     

COUNTRY/Property Name    
     
   City (Metropolitan area)    
     
   Ownership 
Interest    
     
   SPG 
Effective 
Ownership    
     
   Year 
Built    
     
   Total Gross 
Leasable Area(1)    
     
   Retail Anchors and 
Major Tenants    

MEXICO   

9.  
     
  Punta Norte Premium Outlets  
     
  Mexico City  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2004  

278,000  
     
  Adidas, Calvin Klein, CH Carolina Herrera, Coach, Kenneth Cole, Lacoste, Levi's, MaxMara, Nautica, Nike, Palacio Outlet, Reebok, Roberto Cavalli, Rockport, Salvatore Ferragamo, Swarovski, Zegna  

SOUTH KOREA   

10.  
     
  Yeoju Premium Outlets  
     
  Yeoju (Seoul)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2007  

276,200  
     
  Adidas, Giorgio Armani, Bally, Burberry, Chloe, Coach, Diesel, Dolce   Gabbana, Escada, Fendi, Furla, Gucci, Lacoste, Marc Jacobs, Marks   Spencer, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Salvatore
Ferragamo, Theory, Tod's, Valentino, Vivienne Westwood  

11.  
     
  Paju Premium Outlets  
     
  Paju (Seoul)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2011  

327,800  
     
  Armani, Banana Republic, Calvin Klein, Coach, DKNY, Elie Tahari, Escada, Jill Stuart, Lacoste, Lanvin Collection, Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Nike, Polo Ralph Lauren, Theory, Tory Burch, Vivienne Westwood  

Subtotal South Korea   

604,000   

MALAYSIA   

12.  
     
  Johor Premium Outlets  
     
  Johor (Singapore)  
     
  Fee  

50.0  
  %  
  2011  

190,400  
     
  Adidas, Armani, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Canali, Coach, DKNY, Gap, Guess, Lacoste, Levi's, Michael Kors, Nike, Salvatore Ferragamo, Timberland, Zegna  

TOTAL INTERNATIONAL ASSETS   

3,690,900   

FOOTNOTES:   

(1)    All
gross leasable area listed in square feet.      (2)    Does
not include 45 properties in Italy with a GLA of approximately 10.1 million square feet as we sold our interest in GCI on January 9,
2012.    
 
  39  

Table of Contents    

Land      

We have direct or indirect ownership interests in approximately 550 acres of land held in the United States for future development.   

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency      

Due to the size of our portfolio, we focus on energy efficiency as a core sustainability strategy. Through the continued use of energy
conservation practices, energy efficiency projects, and continuous monitoring and reporting, we have reduced our energy consumption at comparable properties every year since 2003. As a result,
excluding new developments and expansions, we reduced the electricity usage over which we have direct control by 299 million kWhs since 2003. This represents a 26% reduction in electricity
usage across a
portfolio of comparable properties and reflects an annual value of over $32 million in avoided operating costs. Our documented reduction in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our energy
management efforts is 210,000 metric tons CO2e.   

In
2011, we were awarded    NAREIT's Leader in the Light Award    for the seventh year in a row, and    NAREIT's Leader in
the Light Long Term Achievement Award   . We are the only company to have achieved the Leader in the Light distinction every single year since NAREIT launched the program in 2005.
We were included in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index published by the Carbon Disclosure Project. We scored 96 points out of 100 for transparency in environmental-impact reporting and were
the only REIT to earn a place on the index.   

Mortgage Financing on Properties      

The following table sets forth certain information regarding the mortgages and other indebtedness encumbering our properties, and the
properties held by our domestic and international joint venture arrangements, and also our unsecured corporate debt. Substantially all of the mortgage and property related debt is nonrecourse to us.   

  40  

Table of Contents    

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES       As of December 31, 2011   (Dollars in thousands)            

41  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)    

42  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)    

43  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)    

44  

Table of Contents   

MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES      As of December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)    

45  

Table of Contents   

THE MILLS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP   MORTGAGE AND OTHER DEBT ON PORTFOLIO PROPERTIES       As of December 31, 2011   (Dollars in thousands)     

(Footnotes on following page)     

  46  

Table of Contents    

   (Footnotes for preceding pages)   

(1)    Variable
rate loans based on LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 80 bps to 400 bps. LIBOR as of December 31, 2011 was 0.3%.
      (2)    Requires
monthly payment of interest only.
      (3)    Includes
applicable extension available at the Applicable Borrower's option.
      (4)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (5)    Through
an interest rate swap agreement, interest on $200.0 million is essentially fixed at 3.40%. The interest rate presented is a blended rate.
      (6)    Loans
secured by these properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted. Factory Stores of America includes Boaz, Georgetown, Graceville, Lebanon,
Nebraska City and Story City.
      (7)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (8)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (9)    Loan
was paid off after December 31, 2011.
      (10)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (11)    Associated
with these loans are interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate of the loans at the all-in rate presented.
      (12)    Variable
rate loans based on Yen LIBOR plus interest rate spreads ranging from 35 bps to 187.5 bps. Yen LIBOR as of December 31, 2011 was 0.1443%.
      (13)    Lender
also participates in a percentage of certain gross receipts above a specified base. This threshold was met and additional interest was paid in 2011.
      (14)    Requires
semi-annual payments of interest only.
      (15)    $4,000,000
Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2011, the Credit Facility bears interest at LIBOR + 100 basis points and provides for
different pricing based upon our investment grade rating. As of December 31, 2011, $3.0 billion was available after outstanding borrowings and letter of credits.
      (16)    Amounts
shown in USD Equivalent. Euro equivalent is 738.4 million. Associated with Facility A and B, Giugliano, and a portion of Cinisello are
interest rate swap agreements with a total combined 573.8 million euros notional amount that effectively fixes Facility A and B, Giugliano, and a portion of Cinisello at a combined 5.14%.
      (17)    Amounts
shown in USD equivalent. Won Equivalent is 104,400.0 million.
      (18)    LIBOR + 1.780%,
with LIBOR capped at 4.000%.
      (19)    Redeemable
beginning March 30, 2011, pricing re-sets every 5 years based on an index of LIBOR + 2.45%.
      (20)    We
sold our interest in this property effective January 1, 2012.
      (21)    Loans
secured by these ten properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (22)    Total
joint venture indebtedness does not include the secured debt on The Mall at The Source.
      (23)    Our
share of indebtedness for joint ventures excludes our share of indebtedness of $105.5 million in joint venture entities in which GCI holds a
non-controlling interest.
      (24)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.50%.
      (25)    The
maturity date shown represents the anticipated maturity date of the loan which is typically 10-20 years earlier than the stated
Maturity Date of the loan. Should the loan not be repaid at the anticipated repayment date the applicable interest rate shall increase as specified in the loan agreement.
      (26)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Yen equivalent 31,473.6 million
      (27)    On
January 6, 2012, the maturity date was extended to April 1, 2016.    
  47  

Table of Contents   

(28)    Through
an interest rate floor agreement, the LIBOR rate is currently fixed at 1.00%.
      (29)    LIBOR + 1.950%,
with LIBOR capped at 6.00%.
      (30)    Comprised
of a $27.0 million note at 5.89% and a $20.0 million note that is non-interest bearing.
      (31)    Variable
rate loans based on 91 Day Korea CD rate plus interest rate spreads ranging from 230 bps to 312 bps. The 91 Day Korea CD rate as of
December 31, 2011 was 3.58%.
      (32)    Comprised
of a $15.0 million note at 5.94% and a $12.8 million note that is non-interest bearing.
      (33)    Amounts
shown in US Dollar Equivalent. Balances include borrowings on multi-currency tranche of Yen 22,265.0 million.
      (34)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (35)    Loans
secured by these four properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (36)    Loans
secured by these two properties are cross-collateralized and cross-defaulted.
      (37)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (38)    We
have executed a swap agreement that fixes the interest rate on $245.0 million of this loan at 6.26%.
      (39)    Loans
secured by these three properties are cross-collateralized.
      (40)    On
January 9, 2012, the Operating Partnership sold its interest in GCI.
      (41)    Amounts
shown in USD Equivalent. Ringgit equivalent is 86,497.4 million.
      (42)    Variable
rate loans based on KLIBOR plus interest rate spread of 225 bps. KLIBOR as of December 31, 2011 was 3.09%.
      (43)    In
January 2012, this loan was refinanced with a new unsecured facility that matures on July 30, 2013.   

The
changes in consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are as follows:   

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings            

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our
business, including, but not limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such
litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.    

Item 4.    [Removed and Reserved.]            

  48  

Table of Contents    

Part II            

Item 5.    Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities            

Market Information      

Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "SPG". The quarterly price range for the shares and the
distributions declared per share for each quarter in the last two fiscal years are shown below:   

There
is no established public trading market for Simon Property's Class B common stock. Dividends on the Class B common stock are identical to the common stock.   

Holders      

The number of holders of record of common stock outstanding was 1,847 as of December 31, 2011. The Class B common stock
is subject to two voting trusts as to which Herbert Simon and David Simon are the trustees. Shares of Class B common stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock
upon the occurrence of certain events and can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders.   

Dividends      

We are required to pay a minimum level of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our dividends typically exceed our net income
generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of
operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what may be required to maintain our status as a REIT.   

              Common
stock dividends during 2011 aggregated $3.50 per share, including a special common stock dividend of $0.20 per share paid in December. Common stock dividends during 2010
aggregated $2.60. All 2011 and 2010 dividends were paid entirely in cash. On February 3, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.95 per share of common stock for the first
quarter of 2012 payable on February 29, 2012 to stockholders of record on February 15, 2012.   

We
offer a dividend reinvestment plan that allows our stockholders to acquire additional shares by automatically reinvesting cash dividends. Shares are acquired pursuant to the plan at
a price equal to the prevailing market price of such shares, without payment of any brokerage commission or service charge.   

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities      

During the fourth quarter of 2011, we issued 19,514 shares of common stock to limited partners in exchange for an equal number of
units. The issuance of the shares of common stock was made pursuant to the terms of the Partnership Agreement of the Operating Partnership and was exempt from registration provided by
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Section 4(2).   

              On
December 30, 2011, we sold 6,857 shares of common stock to David Simon at a price of $130.5725 per share, the same price used to purchase shares on that date under our
dividend reinvestment plan. The shares were acquired by David Simon to satisfy the terms of his Series CEO LTIP Unit Award Agreement which awarded   

  49  

Table of Contents   

  Mr. Simon
long-term incentive performance program units, or CEO LTIP units, which require the after-tax portion of the distributions paid on his CEO LTIP units to be
reinvested in shares of our common stock. The transaction was exempt from registration in reliance upon Section 4(2).   

Issuances Under Equity Compensation Plans      

For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of this
report.    

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Selected Financial Data section of our 2011 Annual
Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.    

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K.    

Item 7A.    Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations section of our 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources   Market Risk," filed as Exhibit 13.1 to
this Form 10-K.    

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            

              Reference is made to the Index to Financial Statements contained in Item 15.    

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure            

              None.    

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures            

                Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under
the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Because of inherent limitations, disclosure
controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of disclosure controls and procedures are met.   

Our
management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures
are effective at a reasonable assurance level.   

                Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       Our management's report on internal control
over financial reporting is set forth
in our 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.   

                Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.       There was no change in our internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f)) that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.    

Item 9B.    Other Information            

During the fourth quarter of the year covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors approved certain audit,
audit-related and non-audit tax compliance and tax consulting services to be provided by Ernst   Young, LLP, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm. This
disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

  50  

Table of Contents    

Part III            

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A and the information included under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I hereof.   

Item 11.    Executive Compensation            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence            

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.    

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services            

              The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of stockholders to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.   

  51  

Table of Contents    

Part IV            

Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules            

(1)   
     
      Consolidated Financial Statements     

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' consolidated financial statements and independent registered public accounting firm's reports are included in our 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders,
filed as Exhibit 13.1 to this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.  

(2)  
      
      Financial Statement Schedule    
      
      Page No.    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Schedule III   Schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation  
      
   55  

Notes to Schedule III  
      
   66  

(3)  
      
      Exhibits    

The Exhibit Index attached hereto is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item.  
      
   67  

52  

Table of Contents    

SIGNATURES        

              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC.   

By  
      
    /s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer  

February 28,
2012   

              Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon  
     
   Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  
     
   February 28, 2012  

/s/ HERBERT SIMON 

Herbert Simon  
      
    Chairman Emeritus and Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ RICHARD S. SOKOLOV 

Richard S. Sokolov  
      
    President, Chief Operating Officer and Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ MELVYN E. BERGSTEIN 

Melvyn E. Bergstein  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ LARRY C. GLASSCOCK 

Larry C. Glasscock  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ LINDA WALKER BYNOE 

Linda Walker Bynoe  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ REUBEN S. LEIBOWITZ 

Reuben S. Leibowitz  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ J. ALBERT SMITH, JR. 

J. Albert Smith, Jr.  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

53  

Table of Contents   

Signature    
     
   Capacity    
     
   Date    

/s/ KAREN N. HORN 

Karen N. Horn  
     
   Director  
     
   February 28, 2012  

/s/ ALLAN HUBBARD 

Allan Hubbard  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ DANIEL C. SMITH 

Daniel C. Smith  
      
    Director  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett  
      
    Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
      
    February 28, 2012  

/s/ STEVEN K. BROADWATER 

Steven K. Broadwater  
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)  
      
    February 28, 2012  

54  

Table of Contents    

   SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

55  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

56  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

57  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

58  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

59  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

60  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

61  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

62  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

63  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

64  

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE III     

    Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation 
December 31, 2011 
(Dollars in thousands)     

65  

Table of Contents    

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries              Notes to Schedule III as of December 31, 2011              (Dollars in thousands)            

    (1)    Reconciliation of Real Estate Properties:     

              The changes in real estate assets for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are as follows:   

The
unaudited aggregate cost of real estate assets for federal income tax purposes as of December 31, 2011 was $23,502,281.   

   (2)       Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation:     

The changes in accumulated depreciation and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are as follows:   

Depreciation
of our investment in buildings and improvements reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income is calculated over the estimated original
lives of the assets as follows:  

Buildings and Improvements   typically 10-40 years for the structure, 15 years for
landscaping and parking lot, and 10 years for HVAC equipment.   
           Tenant Allowances and Improvements   shorter of lease term or useful life.

(3)     Initial cost generally represents net book value at December 20, 1993, except for acquired properties
and new developments after December 20, 1993. Initial cost also includes any new developments that are opened during the current year. Costs of disposals and impairments of property are first
reflected as a reduction to cost capitalized subsequent to acquisition.
       (4)     Not developed/constructed by us or our predecessors. The date of construction represents the acquisition date.
       (5)     Initial cost for these properties is the cost at the date of consolidation for properties previously accounted
for under the equity method of accounting.
       (6)     Amounts represent preliminary purchase price allocation and are subject to change upon finalization.
       (7)     Our interests in the property were sold effective January 1, 2012.    
  66  

Table of Contents   

67  

Table of Contents   

Exhibits    

10.19*  
     
      Form of Series 2010 LTIP Unit (Three Year Program) Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2010).  

10.20*  
     
      Form of Series 2010 LTIP Unit (Two Year Program) Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2010).  

10.21*  
     
      Form of Series 2010 LTIP Unit (One Year Program) Award Agreement under the Simon Property Group, L.P. 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2010).  

10.22*  
     
      Simon Property Group Series CEO LTIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on July 7, 2011).  

10.23*  
     
      Form of Simon Property Group Series 2011 LTIP Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on July 7, 2011).  

10.24*  
     
      First Amendment to Simon Property Group Series CEO LTIP Unit Award Agreement dated as of December 13, 2011.  

10.25*  
     
      Description of Director and Executive Compensation Agreements.  

12.1  
     
      Statement regarding computation of ratios.  

13.1  
     
      Selected Financial Data, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Financial
Statements of the Registrant as contained in the Registrant's 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

21.1  
     
      List of Subsidiaries of the Company.  

23.1  
     
      Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  

31.1  
     
      Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  
     
      Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32  
     
      Certification by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

101  
     
      The following materials from the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011,
formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (1) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (2) the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income, (3) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (4) Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

*    Represents
a management contract, or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Regulation S-K.    

68  

10-K
 2
 a2207375zf1_10-k.pdf
 10-K

<EX-10.24>
 3
 a2207375zex-10_24.htm
 EX-10.24

Exhibit 10.24     

    FIRST AMENDMENT TO SIMON PROPERTY GROUP 
SERIES CEO LTIP UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT     

              This First Amendment to the Series CEO LTIP Unit Award Agreement (" First Amendment ") is
made as of December 22, 2011, but effective as of July 6, 2011 among Simon Property Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the " Company "), its
subsidiary, Simon Property Group, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and the entity through which the Company conducts substantially all of its operations (the
" Partnership "), and David Simon (the " Grantee ").   

    Recitals    

              A.    The
Grantee is the chief executive officer of the Company and provides services to the Partnership.   

              B.    The
Company, the Partnership, and the Grantee are parties to a certain Simon Property Group Series CEO LTIP Unit Award Agreement (" Award
Agreement "), dated as of July 6, 2011, pursuant to which Grantee was awarded certain LTIP Units designated as the "Series CEO LTIP Units", pursuant to the Partnership's 1998
Stock Incentive Plan (the " Plan "), as approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the " Committee ").   

              C.    The
parties desire to amend Section 8 of the Award Agreement to conform to the procedures agreed upon by the parties and the Agent (as defined in the Award
Agreement) regarding the acquisition of shares of the Company's Common Stock (the " Shares ") and the treatment of reinvestment of distributions.   

D.    This
First Amendment and the issuance of Shares contemplated hereby have been approved by the Committee in accordance with terms of the Plan and SEC
Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   

              NOW,
THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:   

              1.     Section 8(a)
of the Award Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:   

(a)    Purchased
Shares .    The Partnership shall pay all cash distributions, net of the LTIP Distribution Tax Component, on the
Unvested LTIP Units to a broker or other agent acceptable to the Grantee (the " Agent ") which shall use such funds received to purchase shares of Common Stock, which
purchases shall be made, except as otherwise described in this Section 8(a), on the public trading market (the " Purchased Shares "). The Purchased Shares shall be
held by the Agent for the benefit of the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement. The Company shall pay the LTIP Distribution Tax Component of all cash distributions received on the Unvested LTIP Units as
directed by the Grantee. The number of Purchased Shares purchased by the Agent shall be the maximum number that can be purchased with the cash from distributions and dividends then held by the Agent.
The Agent shall acquire the Purchased Shares on the same day as, and otherwise on terms similar to, the purchases of Common Stock that are made pursuant to the Company's Investor Services Program
through the reinvestment of dividends paid on Common Stock. If the Company or the Grantee advises the Agent that the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in respect of any cash distributions received
on Unvested LTIP Units or cash dividends received on Reinvestment Shares may not be exempt from Section 16 of the Exchange Act pursuant to SEC Rule 16a-11 promulgated under
the Exchange Act or any successor thereto, then the Agent shall acquire the shares of Common Stock directly from the Company. The Partnership shall bear the costs of the Agent. The Agent shall retain
any cash not used in a quarter to acquire Purchased Shares in the following quarter. The Purchased Shares and any cash retained by the Agent shall be released to Grantee or returned to the Partnership
in the event of forfeiture as provided in  Section 8(c)  and  Section 8(d) , respectively. The acquisition of the shares of Common
Stock pursuant to this Agreement shall be pursuant to a contract or plan in compliance with SEC Rule 10b5-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act and any successor thereto and, if
acquired directly from the Company, in compliance with SEC Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto.   

2.     Section 8(b)
of the Award Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:   

(b)    Reinvestment
Shares .    The Grantee directs the Company to, and the Company shall, pay or cause to be paid all cash dividends on
the Purchased Shares and the Reinvestment Shares (as defined below) to the Agent (until such shares are either released to the Grantee or returned to the Partnership in the event of forfeiture as
provided in  Section 8(c)  and  Section 8(d) , respectively). The Agent shall reinvest all cash dividends received on   

69  

the
Purchased Shares, net of the Stock Dividend Tax Component, by acquiring additional shares of Common Stock, and shall further reinvest all cash dividends on such acquired shares of Common Stock,
net of the Stock Dividend Tax Component, and so on in respect of cash dividends on further acquired shares of Common Stock (collectively referred to as the " Reinvestment
Shares "), on the terms and conditions specified in  Section 8(a)  for the acquisition of Purchased Shares. The Reinvestment Shares shall be held by the
Agent for the benefit of the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement. The Agent shall pay the Stock Dividend Tax Component of all cash dividends received on the Purchased Shares and Reinvestment Shares to
the Grantee. The Reinvestment Shares, including any dividends paid in shares of Common Stock or other property, shall be held by the Agent and shall be released to the Grantee or returned to the
Partnership in the event of forfeiture as provided in  Section 8(c)  and  Section 8(d) , respectively.   

3.     Except
as herein amended, the terms and conditions of the Award Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first above written.   

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation  

By:  
      
   /s/ JOHN RULLI 

Name:  
     
  John Rulli 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer  

SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership  

By:  
      
   Simon Property Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, its general partner  

By:  
      
   /s/ JOHN RULLI 

Name:  
     
  John Rulli 
Executive Vice President and 
Chief Administrative Officer  

GRANTEE  

By:  
      
   /s/ DAVID SIMON 

Name:  
     
  David Simon  

70  

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.24>
 4
 a2207375zf3_ex-1024.pdf
 EX-10.24

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 5
 a2207375zex-10_25.htm
 EX-10.25

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.25            

DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTOR AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS      (February 24, 2012)       

    Compensation of Non-Employee Directors     

Annual Retainer.       Non-employee members of the Board receive an annual retainer in cash and restricted stock:

The cash component is $70,000.     
           The restricted stock award has a value of $82,500(1).     
           The retainer is payable upon election, re-election or appointment to the Board(2).    

(1)    Grants
of restricted stock are determined by dividing the cash value of the award by the 20 trading day average closing price of the Company's common stock
ending on the trading day immediately preceding the date of such award.
      (2)    Pro-rated
for partial years of service.    

Committee Chair Retainers.       Each non-employee Committee Chair receives:  

Audit   $20,000, payable one-half in cash and one-half in restricted stock.    
           All other Committees (except Executive Committee)   $15,000, payable one-half in cash and
one-half in restricted stock.    

Meeting Fees.       Non-employee directors receive $2,000 per Board meeting for in person attendance. Non-employee
directors
receive $1,500 per committee meeting for attendance (whether in person, by telephone or video conference). The per meeting fee payable for in person attendance of Board or committee meetings is two
(2) times regular meeting fee for any non-employee Director who must travel more than four (4) times zones from his or her personal residence to the location of a meeting of
the Board or any of its committees. No Director currently lives more than four (4) time zones from the location of meetings of the Board or any of its committees.   

Lead Independent Director Compensation.       The non-employee director designated as Lead Director receives an
additional retainer of $25,000
annually, payable one-half in cash and one-half in restricted stock (pro-rated for any partial year of service).   

                Vesting of Restricted Stock.       All restricted stock compensation received by non-employee directors vests in full
one year after the award.   

Director Ownership Guidelines.       Under the Company's Governance Principles, directors must own 3,000 or more
shares of the Company's common stock or
units of the Operating Partnership within two years after their initial election or appointment and 5,000 or more shares or units three years from such date. Restricted stock qualifies for this
purpose only after full vesting.   

                Deferred Compensation.       Non-employee directors may elect to defer all or a portion of their cash compensation
under the Company's
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Deferred Compensation Plan"). To date, none of our non-employee directors has elected to do so. All restricted stock issued to
non-employee directors as retainers will be placed in the Deferred Compensation Plan. Dividends paid on the restricted stock in this account must be reinvested in the Company's common
stock. Amounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan will not be released until a director retires and resigns from the Board or is not re-elected.   

    Compensation of Named Executive Officers     

                Base Salaries.       The executive officers of the Company serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The
Compensation Committee of the Board sets
or ratifies the base salaries of the Company's executive officers. The following are the current annual base salary levels for the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer   

  71  

and
its three other most highly compensated executive officers (the "Named Executive Officers") required to be identified in the proxy statement for the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders:   

Employment Agreements.       David Simon has entered into an employment agreement with the Company, a copy of which
has been filed as an exhibit to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 7, 2011. Mr. Sokolov has also entered into an employment agreement with
the Company, a copy of which has been filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

Bonus Plan.       Each of the Named Executive Officers is also eligible to receive an annual bonus under the Company's
bonus program. For each participant,
the Company sets a bonus target, generally expressed as a percentage of base salary. Actual bonus payments may range from 0 to 200% of the target amount. The Company sets specific criteria for
corporate, business unit (if applicable) and individual (if applicable) objectives. The criteria may also include subjective measures of performance or financial measures such as EBITDA or other
measures related to an executive's primary areas of responsibility. In the case of our Named Executive Officers, the bonus criteria are approved by the Compensation Committee. In the recent past, the
payment of bonuses has been made subject to achievement of the Company's overall budget for the year. The Company also includes "stretch" levels which may justify higher payments if Company
performance exceeds its budget. If an executive officer's bonus criteria are objective, then the achievement of those criteria are reviewed by the Compensation Committee. Pursuant to David Simon's
employment agreement, we have agreed that, during the term of the agreement, he will receive an annual target cash bonus of not less than 200% of his base salary. Achievement of the bonus criteria is
generally determined in February of the year after the performance year and bonuses are paid in March.   

              As
of the date of this description, the Compensation Committee had not yet determined the bonuses for the Named Executive Officers for 2011.   

Long-Term Incentives.       The Named Executive Officers are eligible to receive discretionary awards under the Simon
Property
Group, L.P. 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1998 Plan"). Under the 1998 Plan, the Compensation Committee may make the following types of equity-based awards: incentive stock options,
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance units and restricted stock. Prior to 2010, the only forms of awards the Compensation Committee had granted had been options and
restricted stock. No stock options have been granted to employees since 2001. Beginning in 2010, the Compensation Committee has awarded LTIP units pursuant to three-year
long-term incentive programs ("LTIP programs") in which the Named Executive Officers participate.   

Awards
under the annual LTIP programs take the form of LTIP units, a type of limited partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership. For the 2010 and 2011 annual LTIP
programs, awarded LTIP units can be earned, in whole or in part, depending upon the extent to which our total stockholder return, or TSR (representing the difference between a baseline value and
valuation date based on price appreciation of our common stock plus cumulative dividends we pay on our common stock without reinvestment or compounding), over the performance period exceeds the
relative and absolute performance targets set by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee believes the annual LTIP programs promote the long-term creation of stockholder
value due to the   

  72  

three-year
performance period as opposed to the one-year period used in the annual restricted stock incentive programs. The Compensation Committee also believes the LTIP
programs reinforce our "pay-for-performance" philosophy by measuring the creation of stockholder value using absolute and relative performance measures. The LTIP units that are
earned to the extent that applicable TSR benchmarks are achieved during the performance period become the equivalent of units on a one-for-one basis, but only after an
additional two year service-based vesting requirement that begins after the end of the performance period. LTIP units not earned are forfeited.   

In
March 2010, the Compensation Committee established the first annual LTIP program. Given that the three-year performance period would end December 31, 2012, the
Compensation Committee also approved a program with a one-year performance period and another with a two-year performance period so that there would be vesting opportunities in
the next two years that overlapped with the three-year program. We refer to these three programs as the one-, two- and three-year 2010 LTIP Programs.
The performance period for the one-year 2010 LTIP Program ended December 31, 2010; the performance period for the two-year LTIP Program ended December 31, 2011;
and the performance period for the three-year 2010 LTIP Program will end December 31, 2012. Consistent with the Compensation Committee's objective to establish
three-year LTIP programs annually, in July 2011, the Compensation Committee established a 2011 LTIP Program with a three-year performance period ending December 31,
2013. Pursuant to David Simon's employment agreement, we have agreed that, during the term of the agreement, he will continue to participate in annual LTIP programs and that, beginning in 2011, the
grant date fair value of the annual award will not be less than $12.0 million.   

              All
of the annual LTIP programs use the same three performance measures. We compare the TSR of our common stock during the applicable performance period using a baseline value of $79.80
per share for the 2010 LTIP programs (the closing sale price as reported by the NYSE for December 31, 2009) and $99.49 per share for the 2011 LTIP program (the closing sale price as reported by
the NYSE for December 31, 2010). The first relative performance measure, weighted at 60%, requires our TSR to equal or exceed the overall performance of the MSCI US REIT Index. The second
relative performance measure, weighted at 20%, requires our TSR to equal or exceed the overall performance of the S P 500 Index. The third performance measure, weighted at 20%, requires our
TSR, viewed on an absolute basis, to exceed a specified target TSR. To achieve a 100% payout of the award based on all three measures, our TSR must exceed the performance of the MSCI US REIT Index by
3% or more, must exceed the performance of the S P 500 Index by 2% or more on an annual basis and must be 12% per year or more. To receive a partial payout any one of the following must occur:
our TSR must be greater than the MSCI US REIT Index minus 1%, our TSR must be greater than the S P 500 Index minus 2% or our TSR on an absolute basis must be greater than 6.67% per year.   

              The
number of earned LTIP units will be determined by the Compensation Committee when our financial results for the performance period are available using the following payout matrices
(with linear interpolation between the specified payout percentages):   

Relative TSR (Weighted 60%) MSCI US REIT Index            

Relative TSR (Weighted 20%) S P 500 Index     

73  

Absolute TSR (Weighted 20%)            

After the end of each performance period, any earned LTIP units will then be subject to time-based vesting over a period of two years.
One-half of the earned LTIP units will vest on January 1 of the second and third years following the end of the applicable performance period, subject to the participant maintaining
employment with us through those dates.   

              After
the end of the performance period, holders of earned LTIP units, both vested and unvested, will be entitled to receive distributions in an amount per LTIP unit equal to the
distributions, both regular and special, payable on a unit.   

              As
of the date of this description, the Compensation Committee had not yet determined the payout ratio for the two-year 2010 LTIP Program.   

In
July 2011, the Compensation Committee approved the following awards of LTIP units to our named executive officers under the 2011 LTIP program:   

Insurance and 401(k) Plan.       The Company pays employee and dependent life insurance premiums for each Named
Executive Officer and makes annual
contributions to the accounts of the Named Executive Officers under the Company's 401(k) retirement plan. The Company's basic contribution to the 401(k) retirement plan is equal to 1.0% of the Named
Executive Officer's compensation and vests 20% after completion of two years and an additional 20% after each additional year of service until fully vested after six years. The Company matches 100% of
the first 3% of the Named Executive Officer's contribution and 50% of the next 2% of the Named Executive Officer's contribution. Company matching contributions are vested when made. The Company's
basic and matching contributions are subject to applicable IRS limits and regulations.   

                Non-Qualified Plan.       The Named Executive Officers may also participate in the Deferred Compensation Plan, a
non-qualified
deferred compensation plan for certain executives, key employees and directors. While the Deferred Compensation Plan is an unfunded plan for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended, certain assets have been set aside in the Simon Property Group, L.P. Deferred Compensation Plan Trust to be used to pay benefits to participants, except to the extent the
Company becomes insolvent.   

              The
Deferred Compensation Plan permits eligible employees to defer receipt of up to 100% of their compensation, including Company stock awarded under the 1998 Plan. The Deferred
Compensation Plan also authorizes the Company to make matching contributions based on each eligible employee's elective cash deferrals. The Company
has not made any matching contributions since the inception of the Deferred Compensation Plan. Participants in the Deferred Compensation Plan are 100% vested in all elective cash deferrals. Deferrals
of Company stock awarded under the 1998 Plan vest in accordance with the terms of the 1998 Plan. Employee elective cash deferrals generate earnings based on investment elections made by individual
participants.   

                Heath and Welfare Benefits.       The Named Executive Officers also participate in health and welfare benefit plans
on the same terms as other salaried
employees.   

  74  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.25   
 
  DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTOR AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS (February 24, 2012)   
  Relative TSR (Weighted 60%) MSCI US REIT Index   
  Absolute TSR (Weighted 20%)   

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.25>
 6
 a2207375zf5_ex-1025.pdf
 EX-10.25

</EX-10.25>

<EX-12.1>
 7
 a2207375zex-12_1.htm
 EX-12.1

Exhibit 12.1     

    SIMON PROPERTY GROUP, INC. 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
and Preferred Stock Dividends 
(in thousands)     

For
purposes of calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed charges, "earnings" have been computed by adding fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest, to pre-tax income
from consolidated continuing operations including income from noncontrolling interests and our share of pre-tax income (loss) from 50%, or greater than 50%, owned unconsolidated affiliates
which have fixed charges, and our share of distributed operating income from less than 50% owned unconsolidated affiliates instead of income from the less than 50% owned
unconsolidated affiliates. There are generally no restrictions on our ability to receive distributions from our unconsolidated joint ventures where no preference in favor of the other owners of the
joint venture exists. "Fixed charges" consist of interest costs, whether expensed or capitalized, the interest component of rental expenses, preferred distributions, losses on extinguishment of debt,
and amortization of debt issue costs.   

  75  

</EX-12.1>

<EX-12.1>
 8
 a2207375zf7_ex-121.pdf
 EX-12.1

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 9
 a2207375zex-13_1.htm
 EX-13.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 13.1     

              The following tables set forth selected financial data. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the financial
statements and notes thereto and with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other data we believe is important in understanding trends in our business
is also included in the tables.   

Notes   

(1)    Represents
dividends declared per period.
      (2)    FFO
is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe provides useful information to investors. Please refer to Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a definition and reconciliation of FFO to consolidated net income and FFO per share to net income per share.    

76  

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

              The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto
that are included in this Annual Report to Stockholders.   

    Overview     

              Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and
self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a REIT, among other things, a company must distribute at least 90% of its taxable income
to its stockholders annually. Taxes are paid by stockholders on dividends received and any capital gains distributed. Most states also follow this federal treatment and do not require REITs to pay
state income tax. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is a majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties and other assets. In this discussion,
the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2011, we owned or held an interest in 326 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 151 regional malls, 58 Premium Outlets, 66
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties in the Mills portfolio, and 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the 36 properties acquired in
the Mills portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. Internationally, as of December 31, 2011, we had an ownership interest in a
joint venture which owned 45 shopping centers in Italy. We sold our entire ownership in this joint venture to our venture partner, Auchan S.A., on January 9, 2012. Additionally, we had
ownership interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan, two Premium Outlets in South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia.   

We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:  

base minimum rents,   
           overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and   
           recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate taxes,
repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
invest in real estate properties to maximize total financial return which includes both operating cash flows and capital appreciation. We seek growth in earnings, funds from
operations, or FFO, and cash flows by enhancing the profitability and operation of our properties and investments. We seek to accomplish this growth through the
following:  

attracting and retaining high quality tenants and utilizing economies of scale to reduce operating expenses,    
           expanding and re-tenanting existing highly productive locations at competitive rental rates,    
           selectively acquiring or increasing our interests in high quality real estate assets or portfolios of assets,    
           generating consumer traffic in our retail properties through marketing initiatives and strategic corporate alliances, and    
           selling selective non-core assets.    

We
also grow by generating supplemental revenue from the following activities:  

establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,   
           offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
provision of energy services,    
 
  77  

selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           generating interest income on cash deposits and investments in loans, including those made to related entities.    

We
focus on high quality real estate across the retail real estate spectrum. We expand or renovate properties to enhance profitability and market share of existing assets when we
believe the investment of our capital meets our risk-reward criteria. We selectively develop new properties in metropolitan areas that exhibit strong population and economic growth.   

We
routinely review and evaluate acquisition opportunities based on their ability to complement our portfolio. Our international strategy includes partnering with established real
estate companies and financing international investments with local currency to minimize foreign exchange risk.   

              To
support our growth, we employ a three-fold capital strategy:  

provide the capital necessary to fund growth,   
           maintain sufficient flexibility to access capital in many forms, both public and private, and    
           manage our overall financial structure in a fashion that preserves our investment grade credit ratings.    

Results Overview     

Diluted earnings per common share increased $1.38 during 2011 to $3.48 from $2.10 for 2010. The increase in diluted earnings per share
was primarily attributable to:  

improved operating performance and core business fundamentals in 2011, the impact of our acquisition activity, and a
decrease in interest expense due to the repayment of debt and lower interest rates,   
           in 2011, a net gain due to acquisition of controlling interests, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated
entities of $216.6 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, primarily driven by non-cash gains totaling $251.2 million related to the acquisition of a controlling interest in a
previously unconsolidated regional mall and the distribution of a joint venture's properties to us and our venture partner which resulted in a non-cash gain on the distribution,    
           in 2010, transaction expenses of $69.0 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, for costs incurred related to the
acquisition of Prime Outlets Acquisition Company, or the Prime acquisition, other acquisition-related activities and the settlement of a transaction related dispute,   
           in 2010, a $350.7 million, or $1.00 per diluted share, loss on extinguishment of debt related to our two senior
unsecured notes tender offers, and   
           in 2010, a gain due to acquisition of controlling interest, sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated
entities, net of $320.3 million, or $0.92 per diluted share, primarily driven by the sale of our interest in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l, or Simon Ivanhoe.    

Core
business fundamentals during 2011 improved from the economic environment that existed during 2010. Total sales per square foot, or psf, increased 10.7% from December 31,
2010 to $536 psf at December 31, 2011, for our portfolio of regional malls and Premium Outlets. Average base minimum rent increased 4.4% to $39.42 psf as of December 31, 2011, from
$37.77 psf as of December 31, 2010. Releasing spreads remained positive as we were able to lease available square feet at higher rents than the expiring rental rates on the same space,
resulting in a releasing spread (based on total tenant payments-base minimum rent plus common area maintenance) of $5.20 psf as of December 31, 2011, representing a 10.5% increase
over expiring payments as of December 31, 2011. Ending occupancy was 94.8% as of December 31, 2011, as compared to 94.5% as of December 31, 2010, an increase of 30 basis points.   

              Our
effective overall borrowing rate at December 31, 2011 decreased 23 basis points to 5.35% as compared to 5.58% at December 31, 2010. This decrease was primarily due to
a decrease in the effective overall borrowing rate on fixed rate debt of 22 basis points (5.83% at December 31, 2011 as compared to 6.05% at December 31, 2010) and a decrease in the
effective overall borrowing rate on variable rate debt of 48 basis points (1.45% at December 31, 2011 as compared to 1.93% at December 31, 2010). At December 31, 2011, the
weighted average years to maturity of our consolidated indebtedness was approximately 5.7 years as compared to approximately 5.9 years at December 31, 2010. Our financing
activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, included the redemption at par of $542.5 million of   

  78  

senior
unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 5.00% to 8.25% and the repayment of $368.2 million in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 6.64%, unencumbering six
properties. In addition, in 2011 we issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.8% with a maturity date of January 2017 and $700.0 million of senior
unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 4.13% with a maturity date of December 2021. As further discussed in "Financing and Debt" below, on October 5, 2011, we entered into a new
$4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility.   

United States Portfolio Data     

              The portfolio data discussed in this overview includes the following key operating statistics: ending occupancy; average base minimum
rent per square foot; and total sales per square foot for our domestic assets. We include acquired properties in this data beginning in the year of acquisition and remove properties sold in the year
disposed. For comparative purposes, we separate the information below related to community/lifestyle centers and our investment in the Mills portfolio from our other U.S. operations. We also do not
include any properties located outside of the United States. During 2011, we made changes to the method and presentation of certain of our operational statistics as defined below.   

The
following table sets forth these key operating statistics for:  

properties that are consolidated in our consolidated financial statements,    
           properties we account for under the equity method of accounting as joint ventures, and    
           the foregoing two categories of properties on a total portfolio basis.    

(1)    Percentages
may not recalculate due to rounding. Percentage and basis point changes are representative of the change from the comparable prior period.    

                 Ending Occupancy Levels and Average Base Minimum Rent per Square Foot.        Ending occupancy is the
percentage of gross leasable area, or GLA, which is
leased as of the last day of the reporting period. We include all company owned space except for regional mall anchors and regional mall majors in the calculation. Base minimum rent per square foot is
the average base minimum rent charge in effect for the reporting period for all tenants that would qualify to be included in ending occupancy.   

  79  

Total Sales per Square Foot.        Total sales include total reported retail tenant sales at owned GLA (for
mall and freestanding stores with less than
10,000 square feet) in the regional malls and all reporting tenants at the Premium Outlets and The Mills. Retail sales at owned GLA affect revenue and profitability levels because sales determine the
amount of minimum rent that can be charged, the percentage rent realized, and the recoverable expenses (common area maintenance, real estate taxes, etc.) that tenants can afford to pay.   

International Property Data     

              The following are selected key operating statistics for certain of our international properties (1).   

(1)    Does
not include statistics for European operations as we sold our entire interest in Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI, on January 9,
2012.
      (2)    Information
supplied by the managing venture partner.
      (3)    Does
not include our centers in Mexico (Premium Outlets Punta Norte), Malaysia (Johor Premium Outlets), and South Korea (Yeoju and Paju Premium Outlets).
      (4)    Does
not include Sendai-Izumi Premium Outlets in Japan as the property was closed for repair due to damages from the earthquake in Japan in March 2011. The
center re-opened on June 17, 2011.    

Critical Accounting Policies     

              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or
GAAP, requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These judgments affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue, and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various
transactions had been different, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied resulting in a different presentation of our financial statements. From time to time, we
reevaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current
information. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are
inherently uncertain. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account
for our leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to
pay overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed its sales threshold.    
           We review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, a decline in a property's cash flows,
occupancy or comparable sales per square foot. We measure any impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual
value is less than the carrying value of the property. To the extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We may
decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ from their carrying values. We also review our investments including investments in unconsolidated
entities if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may not be recoverable. We will record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair
value of the investments below carrying value is other-than-temporary. Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur subsequent to our review of recoverability of
investment    
 
  80  

property
and other assets could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future charges to earnings if assumptions regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

To maintain our status as a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income in any given year and meet certain
asset and income tests. We monitor our business and transactions that may potentially impact our REIT status. In the unlikely event that we fail to maintain our REIT status, and available relief
provisions do not apply, then we would be required to pay federal income taxes at regular corporate income tax rates during the period we did not qualify as a REIT. If we lost our REIT status, we
could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were met. As a result, failing to maintain REIT status would result in
a significant increase in the income tax expense recorded during those periods.   
           We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the
acquisition based upon the fair value of each component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings
as-if-vacant, land and market value of in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our
estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation we record over the estimated useful life of the property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the
market value of in-place leases, we make our best estimates of the tenants' ability to pay rents based upon the tenants' operating performance at the property, including the competitive
position of the property in its market as well as sales psf, rents psf, and overall occupancy cost for the tenants in place at the acquisition date. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue
that we will recognize over the remaining lease term for the acquired in-place leases.   
           A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a
cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of
judgment. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of
the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction
project as substantially completed and held available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon opening.    

Results of Operations     

              In addition to the activity discussed above in "Results Overview" section, the following acquisitions, dispositions, and openings of
consolidated properties affected our consolidated results from continuing operations in the comparative periods:  

During 2011, we disposed of three of our other retail properties and one of our regional malls.    
           On August 25, 2011, we acquired additional interests in The Plaza at King of Prussia and The Court at King of
Prussia, or, collectively, King of Prussia, a 2.4 million square foot regional mall in the Philadelphia market, which had previously been accounted for under the equity method. We now have a
controlling interest in this property and its results are consolidated as of the acquisition date.   
           On July 19, 2011, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in ABQ Uptown, a 222,000 square foot lifestyle center
located in Albuquerque, New Mexico.   
           On June 28, 2011, we sold Prime Outlets Jeffersonville, a 410,000 square foot outlet center located in
Jeffersonville, Ohio.   
           During 2010, we disposed of one regional mall, one community center, and one other retail property.    
           On August 30, 2010, we completed the Prime acquisition, acquiring 21 outlet centers, including a center located in
Puerto Rico, which was acquired on May 13, 2010.   
           On August 10, 2010, we acquired a controlling interest in a regional mall.    
           During 2009, we disposed of one regional mall and three community centers.    
           On August 6, 2009, we opened Cincinnati Premium Outlets, a 400,000 square foot outlet center located in Warren
County, Ohio, north of Cincinnati.    
 
  81  

On April 23, 2009, we opened The Promenade at Camarillo Premium Outlets, a 220,000 square foot expansion located in
Ventura County, north of Los Angeles.    

In
addition to the activities discussed above and in "Results Overview", the following acquisitions, dispositions, and openings of joint venture properties affected our income from
unconsolidated entities in the comparative periods:  

During 2011, we disposed of one of our regional malls.   
           On December 31, 2011, as further discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, a 50%
joint venture distributed a portfolio of properties to us and our joint venture partner.   
           On December 2, 2011, we and our partner, Genting Berhad, opened Johor Premium Outlets, a 173,000 square foot outlet
center in Johor, Malaysia.   
           During the third quarter of 2011, we contributed a wholly-owned property to a joint venture which holds our interests in
nine unconsolidated properties. The transaction effectively exchanged a portion of our interest in this previously wholly-owned property for increased ownership interests in the nine unconsolidated
properties.   
           On March 17, 2011, we and our partner, Shinsegae International Co., opened Paju Premium Outlets, a 328,000 square
foot outlet center in Paju, South Korea.   
           During 2010, we disposed of one of our other retail properties.   
           On July 15, 2010, we and our partner sold our collective interests in a joint venture which owned seven shopping
centers located in France and Poland.   
           On May 28, 2010, we acquired an additional noncontrolling interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located
in Houston, Texas thereby increasing our interest from 31.5% to 50.4%.   
           On April 29, 2010, GCI, an Italian joint venture in which we held a 49.0% ownership interest, sold its 40.0%
interest in Porta di Roma for  71 million.   
           On March 25, 2010, GCI opened Catania, a 642,000 square foot shopping center in Sicily, Italy.    
           On March 2, 2010, GCI opened Argine, a 300,000 square foot shopping center in Naples, Italy.    
           During 2009, we recognized a loss on our joint venture interests in our shopping centers in China. We sold our interests to
affiliates of our Chinese partner for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million.   
           On July 9, 2009, Chelsea Japan Company, Ltd., or Chelsea Japan, the joint venture which operates the Japanese
Premium Outlets in which we have a 40.0% ownership interest, opened Ami Premium Outlets located in Ami, Japan.    

For
the purposes of the following comparisons between the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the above transactions are
referred to as the property transactions. In the following discussions of our results of operations, "comparable" refers to properties open and operating throughout both years in the
year-to-year comparisons.   

              During
2011, we agreed to dispose of certain consolidated properties that had an aggregate carrying value of $355.4 million and debt obligations of $162.0 million for
aggregate sales proceeds of $136.0 million resulting in a net loss of $42.4 million. The loss on disposition of these properties recognized in the consolidated statements of operations
and comprehensive income and the operating results of such properties were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following lists those consolidated properties we disposed of
during 2011 and the date of disposition:   

82  

During
2010, we disposed of three consolidated properties that had an aggregate carrying value of $91.4 million and debt obligations of $91.3 million for which we received
aggregate sales proceeds of $5.8 million resulting in a net gain of $5.7 million. The gain on disposition of these properties recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income and the operating results of the properties that we sold or disposed of during 2010 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following lists those
consolidated properties we disposed of during 2010 and the date of disposition:   

During
2009, we disposed of four consolidated properties that had an aggregate net book value of $13.7 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $3.9 million, resulting in a
net loss of $9.8 million. The loss on disposition of these assets recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and the operating results of the properties
that we sold or disposed of during 2009 were not significant to our consolidated results of operations. The following lists those consolidated properties we disposed of during 2009 and the date of
disposition:   

Year Ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2010      

              Minimum rents increased $235.2 million during 2011, of which the property transactions accounted for $170.2 million of
the increase. Comparable rents increased $65.0 million, or 2.8%. The increase in comparable rents was primarily attributable to a $64.7 million increase in base minimum rents. Overage
rents increased $30.2 million, or 27.3%, as a result of an increase related to the property transactions of $14.1 million and an increase in tenant sales during 2011.   

              Tenant
reimbursements increased $93.5 million, due to a $63.9 million increase attributable to the property transactions and a $29.6 million, or 2.9%, increase in
the comparable properties primarily due to increases to the fixed reimbursement related to common area maintenance.   

              Total
other income decreased $16.9 million, principally as a result of the following:  

a decrease in lease settlement income of $38.1 million due to a higher number of terminated leases in 2010,    
           offset by an increase in interest income of $8.7 million primarily related to loans held for investment,    
           a $2.0 million increase in land sale activity, and   
           a $10.5 million increase in net other activity.    

Depreciation
and amortization expense increased $83.1 million primarily due to additional depreciable assets acquired in the King of Prussia and Prime acquisitions.   

              Real
estate tax expense increased $23.8 million of which the property transactions accounted for $18.1 million with the remaining increase primarily caused by higher tax
payments in 2011.   

              Repairs
and maintenance expense increased $11.1 million of which the property transactions accounted for $6.9 million. Repairs and maintenance expense at the comparable
properties increased $4.2 million primarily due to increased general repairs at the properties.   

During
2011, we recorded a provision for credit losses of $6.5 million whereas in the prior year the provision was $3.1 million. Our bad debt provision in both 2011 and
2010 has been lower than our historical experience.   

              Home
and regional office expense increased $19.3 million primarily due to increased long-term incentive compensation and marginally higher personnel costs in 2011.   

              General
and administrative expense increased $25.1 million primarily as a result of increased performance compensation costs.   

  83  

Other
expenses increased $29.0 million of which the property transactions accounted for $10.2 million and the comparable properties and corporate costs accounted for
$18.3 million primarily related to an increase in legal and professional fees and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.   

Interest
expense decreased $43.6 million primarily related to the repayment of five unsecured notes in 2011, repayment of mortgages at six properties and purchases of senior
unsecured notes in the January 2010 and August 2010 tender offers, offset by increased borrowings under our credit facility, new or refinanced debt at several properties including debt associated with
the Prime acquisition and new unsecured debt and the issuance of two series of unsecured notes in 2011.   

              During
2011, we disposed of our interest in an unconsolidated regional mall, one regional mall, three other retail properties, and Prime Outlets Jeffersonville, and acquired
a controlling interest in a regional mall previously accounted for under the equity method. In addition, on December 31, 2011, a joint venture in which we had a 50% interest was dissolved and,
as a result, distributed a portfolio of properties to us and our joint venture partner. We now consolidate the six properties we received in the distribution and recorded a non-cash gain
representing the fair value of the net assets received in excess of the carrying value of our interest in the joint venture portfolio. These transactions resulted in an aggregate net gain in 2011 of
$216.6 million. During 2010, we recorded a gain of $321.0 million primarily due to our share of the gain on the sale of our interest in Simon Ivanhoe, the gain on the acquisition of a
controlling interest in a regional mall previously accounted for under the equity method and the gain on the sale of Porta di Roma by GCI.   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $84.6 million primarily due to an increase in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

              Preferred
dividends decreased $3.3 million as a result of the conversion and redemption of the remaining Series I 6% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, or
Series I preferred stock, in the second quarter of 2010.   

     Year Ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year Ended December 31, 2009      

              Minimum rents increased $112.7 million during the 2010 period, due to an $80.9 million increase attributable to the
property transactions and an increase in comparable rents of $31.8 million, or 1.4%. The increase in comparable minimum rents was primarily attributable to a $33.8 million increase in
base minimum rents and a $6.5 million increase in comparable rents from carts, kiosks, and other temporary tenants, partially offset by a $4.8 million decline in the fair market value of
in-place lease amortization and a $3.7 million decrease in straight-line rents. Overage rents increased $25.7 million, or 30.3%, as a result of an increase in
tenant sales for the period as compared to the prior year.   

              Tenant
reimbursements increased $21.6 million, due to a $24.5 million increase attributable to the property transactions, offset by a $2.9 million, or 0.3%,
decrease in the comparable properties as a result of a decrease in expenditures allocable to tenants paying common area maintenance on a proportionate basis.   

              Total
other income increased $25.3 million, principally as a result of the result of the following:  

an increase in lease settlement income of $33.6 million due to a higher number of terminated leases in the period,
and   
           an increase in interest income of $10.1 million due to an increase in our available cash on deposit,    
           offset by a $12.4 million decrease in land sale activity, and   
           a $6.0 million decrease in net other activity.    

Property
operating expenses decreased $11.4 million, or 2.7%, primarily related to lower costs resulting from our cost control and cost reduction initiatives and generally lower
cost of utilities. An increase in property operating expenses in the fourth quarter related to the Prime acquisition was offset by more favorable claims experience by our captive insurance
subsidiaries.   

              Depreciation
and amortization expense decreased $14.8 million due to the impact of the acceleration of depreciation in 2009 for certain properties scheduled for redevelopment,
offset by an increase in 2010 of $52.7 million related to the Prime acquisition and an increase related to openings and expansion activity.   

              The
provision for credit losses decreased $19.5 million due to a reduction in the number of tenants in default and a decrease in the number of tenants in bankruptcy proceedings
compared to the same period in 2009. We also had strong collections of receivables which we had previously established reserves for due to uncertainty of payment.   

  84  

During
2010, we incurred $69.0 million in transaction expenses related to acquisitions, potential acquisitions, and the settlement of a transaction related dispute.   

              Interest
expense increased $35.0 million primarily related to the Operating Partnership's issuances of new series of unsecured notes totaling $3.2 billion in 2010 and
$1.8 billion during 2009 and the result of new or refinanced debt at several properties including debt associated with the Prime acquisition, offset by the purchase of unsecured notes in the
January and August 2010 tender offers and mortgage loans which we repaid during the 2010 period.   

              During
2010, we incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt of $350.7 million related to the two unsecured note tender offers.   

              Income
tax expense (benefit) of taxable REIT subsidiaries increased $7.0 million due to the recognition of a $5.8 million tax benefit in 2009 related to the adjustment of
the carrying value of our investment in an unconsolidated non-retail real estate entity.   

Income
from unconsolidated entities increased $35.7 million primarily due to favorable results of operations over the prior period, the sale of a non-retail building
in 2010, a property opening and expansion in Japan, a decrease in the provision for credit losses and interest savings, partially offset by the negative impact to operations of the flood at Opry
Mills.   

              In
2010, we recognized an $8.2 million impairment charge from an investment in an unconsolidated entity representing the impact of an impairment recorded on an investment
property in Italy.   

              In
2010, we recorded a gain upon acquisition of a controlling interest and on the sale of interests in unconsolidated entities of $321.0 million primarily due to our share of the
gain on the sale of our interest in Simon Ivanhoe, the gain on the acquisition of a controlling interest in a regional mall previously accounted for under the equity method and the gain on sale of
Porta di Roma by GCI.   

              Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $58.6 million primarily due to an increase in the income of the Operating Partnership.   

Preferred
dividends decreased $19.7 million as a result of the conversion and redemption of the remaining Series I preferred stock in the second quarter of 2010.   

    Liquidity and Capital Resources     

              Because we generate revenues primarily from long-term leases, our financing strategy relies primarily on
long-term fixed rate debt. We manage our floating rate debt to be at or below 15-25% of total outstanding indebtedness by negotiating interest rates for each financing or
refinancing based on current market conditions and entering into floating rate to fixed rate interest rate swaps. Floating rate debt currently comprises approximately 11.2% of our total consolidated
debt at December 31, 2011. We also enter into interest rate protection agreements as appropriate to assist in managing our interest rate risk. We derive most of our liquidity from leases that
generate positive net cash flow from operations and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities that totaled $2.4 billion during 2011. In addition, the Credit Facility provides an
alternative source of liquidity as our cash needs vary from time to time.   

              Our
balance of cash and cash equivalents increased $2.0 million during 2011 to $798.7 million as of December 31, 2011 as further discussed in "Cash Flows" below.   

On
December 31, 2011, we had available borrowing capacity of approximately $3.0 billion under the Credit Facility, net of outstanding borrowings of $952.7 million
and letters of credit of $36.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the maximum amount outstanding under the Credit Facility or the predecessor facility was $1.8 billion
and the weighted average amount outstanding was approximately $1.1 billion. The weighted average interest rate was 1.66% for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

              We
and the Operating Partnership have historically had access to public equity and long-term unsecured debt markets and access to private equity from institutional investors
at the property level.   

              Our
business model requires us to regularly access the debt markets to raise funds for acquisition, development and redevelopment activity, and to refinance maturing debt. We may also,
from time to time, access the equity
capital markets to accomplish our business objectives. We believe we have sufficient cash on hand and availability under the Credit Facility to address our debt maturities and capital needs through
2012.   

  85  

Loans to SPG-FCM     

As part of the Mills acquisition in 2007, the Operating Partnership made loans to SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or
SPG-FCM, which were used to repay loans and other obligations. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the outstanding balance of our remaining loan to SPG-FCM was
$651.0 million. The loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and matures on June 7, 2012. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded approximately $9.8 million,
$9.9 million and $9.3 million in interest income (net of inter-entity eliminations) related to this loan, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee income amortization
related to up-front fees on those loans during 2011, 2010 and 2009 of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million and $3.7 million (net of inter-entity eliminations),
respectively, for providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM.   

Cash Flows     

Our net cash flow from operating activities and distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities totaled $2.4 billion
during 2011. In addition, we received net proceeds from our debt financing and repayment activities in 2011 of $256.5 million. These activities are further discussed below in "Financing and
Debt". During the 2011 period, we or the Operating Partnership also:  

paid stockholder dividends and unitholder distributions of $1.2 billion,   
           paid preferred stock dividends and preferred unit distributions totaling $5.3 million,    
           funded consolidated capital expenditures of $445.5 million (includes development and other costs of
$67.9 million, renovation and expansion costs of $157.1 million, and tenant costs and other operational capital expenditures of $220.5 million),    
           funded investments in unconsolidated entities of $20.8 million, and   
           funded property acquisitions and acquired additional interests in previously unconsolidated entities for
$1.3 billion.    

In
general, we anticipate that cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet operating expenses, monthly debt service, recurring capital expenditures, and distributions to
stockholders necessary to maintain our REIT qualification on a long-term basis. In addition, we expect to be able to obtain capital for nonrecurring capital expenditures, such as
acquisitions, major building renovations and expansions, as well as for scheduled principal maturities on outstanding indebtedness, from:  

excess cash generated from operating performance and working capital reserves,    
           borrowings on the Credit Facility,   
           additional secured or unsecured debt financing, or   
           additional equity raised in the public or private markets.    

We
expect to generate positive cash flow from operations in 2012, and we consider these projected cash flows in our sources and uses of cash. These cash flows are principally derived
from rents paid by our retail tenants, many of whom are still recovering from the recent economic downturn. A significant deterioration in projected cash flows from operations could cause us to
increase our reliance on available funds from the Credit Facility, curtail planned capital expenditures, or seek other additional sources of financing as discussed above.   

Financing and Debt     

     Unsecured Debt      

At December 31, 2011, our unsecured debt consisted of $10.7 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating
Partnership and $952.7 million outstanding under the Credit Facility. The December 31, 2011 balance included $287.7 million (U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated
borrowings. The maximum outstanding balance of the Credit Facility or the predecessor facility during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.8 billion and the weighted average
outstanding balance was approximately $1.1 billion. Letters of credit of approximately $36.0 million were outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011.   

  86  

On
October 5, 2011, we entered into the new Credit Facility replacing a predecessor facility. The Credit Facility provides an initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion,
which can be increased at our option to $5.0 billion during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an additional year at our sole
option. The base interest rate on the Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 100 basis points and an additional facility fee of 15 basis points. In addition, the Credit Facility provides for a money market
competitive bid option program that allows us to hold auctions to achieve lower pricing for short-term borrowings. The Credit Facility also includes a $2.0 billion multi-currency
tranche.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Operating Partnership redeemed at par $542.5 million of senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 5.00% to 8.25%.
In addition, on November 10, 2011, we issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.8% with a maturity date of January 2017 and $700.0 million of
senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 4.13% with a maturity date of December 2021.   

              On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of 2.0 years
and a weighted average coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior unsecured notes
that closed on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and $600.0 million
of 6.75% notes due 2040. The weighted average duration of the notes
offering was 14.4 years and the weighted average coupon was 5.69%. We recorded a $165.6 million charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

              On
August 9, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of three outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from May
2013 to August 2014. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on August 17, 2010 was approximately $1.33 billion, with a weighted average duration of
3.5 years and a weighted average coupon of 6.06%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $900.0 million of 4.375%
senior unsecured notes that closed on August 16, 2010. The senior notes are due on March 1, 2021. We recorded a $185.1 million charge to earnings in the third quarter of 2010 as a
result of the tender offer.   

Secured Debt      

Total secured indebtedness was $6.8 billion and $6.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repaid $368.2 million in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 6.64%, unencumbering six properties.   

              As
discussed in "Acquisitions and Dispositions," as a result of the acquisition of additional interests in King of Prussia in August 2011, we now own a controlling interest in this
property and, accordingly, we consolidated the property as of the acquisition date, including the property's $160.1 million mortgage debt. In addition, we consolidated six properties we
received as a distribution from a joint venture of its interests in a portfolio of properties. Four of these properties are encumbered by mortgages totaling $459.0 million.   

Covenants      

Our unsecured debt contains financial covenants and other non-financial covenants. If we were to fail to comply with these
covenants, after the expiration of the applicable cure periods, the debt maturity could be accelerated or other remedies could be sought by the lender including adjustments to the applicable interest
rate. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all covenants of our unsecured debt.   

At
December 31, 2011, we or our subsidiaries were the borrowers under 89 non-recourse mortgage notes secured by mortgages on 89 properties, including 10
separate pools of cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 44 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the
cross-defaulted pool may constitute a default under all mortgages within that pool and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the pool. Certain of our secured debt
contains financial and other non-financial covenants which are specific to the properties which serve as collateral for that debt. If the borrower fails to comply with these covenants, the
lender could accelerate the debt
and enforce its right against their collateral. At December 31, 2011, the applicable borrowers under these non-recourse mortgage notes were in   

  87  

compliance
with all covenants where non-compliance could individually, or giving effect to applicable cross-default provisions, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.   

Summary of Financing     

Our consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, and the effective weighted average interest rates as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):   

As
of December 31, 2011, we had $485.8 million of notional amount fixed rate swap agreements that have a weighted average fixed pay rate of 2.52% and a weighted average
variable receive rate of 0.58%. As of December 31, 2011, the net effect of these agreements effectively converted $485.8 million of variable rate debt to fixed rate debt.   

Contractual Obligations and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements      

In regards to long-term debt arrangements, the following table summarizes the material aspects of these future obligations
on our consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2011, and subsequent years thereafter (dollars in thousands) assuming the obligations remain outstanding through initial maturities:   

(1)    Represents
principal maturities only and therefore, excludes net premiums of $25,072.
      (2)    Variable
rate interest payments are estimated based on the LIBOR rate at December 31, 2011.
      (3)    Represents
only the minimum non-cancellable lease period, excluding applicable lease extension and renewal options.    

Our
off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of our investments in joint ventures which are common in the real estate industry and are described in Note 7 to
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our joint ventures typically fund their cash needs through secured debt financings obtained by and in the name of the joint venture entity. The joint
venture debt is secured by a first mortgage, is without recourse to the joint venture partners, and does not represent a liability of the partners, except to the extent the partners or their
affiliates expressly guarantee the joint venture debt. As of December 31, 2011, the Operating Partnership had guaranteed $30.2 million of the total joint venture related mortgage or
other indebtedness. We may elect to fund cash needs of a joint venture through equity contributions (generally on a basis proportionate to our ownership interests), advances or partner loans, although
such fundings are not required contractually or otherwise.   

Acquisitions and Dispositions     

Buy-sell provisions are common in real estate partnership agreements. Most of our partners are institutional investors who
have a history of direct investment in retail real estate. We or our partners in our joint venture properties may initiate these provisions (subject to any applicable lock up or similar restrictions).
If we determine it is in our stockholders' best interests for us to purchase the joint venture interest and we believe we have adequate liquidity to execute the purchase without hindering our cash
flows, then we may initiate these provisions or elect to buy. If we   

  88  

decide
to sell any of our joint venture interests, we expect to use the net proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness or to reinvest in acquisition, development, redevelopment, or expansion
opportunities.   

                 Acquisitions.        On December 31, 2011, we and our joint venture partner dissolved a venture in which
we had a 50% interest and distributed a
portfolio of properties previously held within the venture to us and our joint venture partner. As a result, we have a 100% interest and now consolidate the six properties we received in the
distribution. The distribution resulted in a remeasurement of the distributed assets to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of approximately $168.3 million representing the
fair value of the net assets received in excess of the carrying value of our interest in the joint venture portfolio.   

              On
August 25, 2011, we acquired additional controlling interests of approximately 83.75% in King of Prussia, thereby increasing our ownership interest to 96.1%. The property is
subject to a $160.1 million mortgage. The consolidation of this previously unconsolidated property resulted in a remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value and a corresponding
non-cash gain of $82.9 million.   

              On
July 19, 2011, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in ABQ Uptown, a lifestyle center located in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Also, during the second quarter, we purchased an
additional noncontrolling interest in an unconsolidated regional mall.   

                 Dispositions.        We continue to pursue the disposition of properties that no longer meet our strategic
criteria or that are not a primary retail venue
within their trade area. During 2011, we agreed to dispose of certain consolidated properties that had an aggregate carrying value of $355.4 million and debt obligations of
$177.0 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $136.0 million resulting in a net loss of $42.4 million. In addition, in April 2011, we disposed of our interest in an
unconsolidated regional mall, resulting in a gain of $7.8 million.   

              At
December 31, 2011, we had a 49.0% ownership interest in GCI which owned 45 properties located in Italy. On January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership interest
in GCI to our venture partner, Auchan S.A. The aggregate cash we received related to the sale of our interest in GCI was $378.0 million. We expect to record a gain on the sale in the first
quarter of 2012.   

Development Activity     

New Domestic Developments.        In August 2011, we began construction on Tanger Outlets   Galveston
located in Texas City, Texas. We
have a 50.0% interest in this new center through a joint venture with Tanger Factory Outlets Centers. Our estimated share of the cost of this project is $32.2 million.   

During
2010, we began construction on Merrimack Premium Outlets located in Merrimack, New Hampshire. This new center, which is wholly owned by us, is expected to open in the second
quarter of 2012. The estimated cost of this project is $144.0 million, and the carrying amount of the construction in progress as of December 31, 2011 was $100.7 million. Other
than these two projects, our share of other 2011 new developments is not significant.   

                 Domestic Expansions and Renovations.        We routinely incur costs related to construction for significant
renovation and expansion projects at our
properties. We also have reinstituted redevelopment and expansion initiatives which we previously reduced given the downturn in the economy. Renovation and expansion projects are currently underway at
numerous centers, and we expect our share of development costs for 2012 related to renovation or expansion initiatives to be approximately $800.0 million. We expect to fund these capital
projects with cash flows from operations. Our estimated stabilized return on invested capital ranges between 8-12% for all of our new development, expansion and renovation projects.   

  89  

Capital Expenditures on Consolidated Properties.      

The following table summarizes total capital expenditures on consolidated properties on a cash basis (in millions):   

International Development Activity.        We typically reinvest net cash flow from our international
investments to fund future international development
activity. We believe this strategy mitigates some of the risk of our initial investment and our exposure to changes in foreign currencies. We have also funded our foreign investments with local
currency-denominated borrowings that act as a natural hedge against local currency fluctuations. This has been the case with our Premium Outlets in Japan, South Korea, and Malaysia where we use Yen,
Won, and Ringgit denominated financing, respectively. Currently, our consolidated net income exposure to changes in the volatility of the Euro, Yen, Won, Peso and other foreign currencies is not
material. We expect our share of international development costs for 2012 will be approximately $67.0 million, primarily funded through reinvested joint venture cash flow and construction
loans.   

              On
March 17, 2011, Paju Premium Outlets, a 328,000 square foot center located in Seoul, South Korea, opened. The net cost of this project is KRW 115.1 billion, of which
our share is approximately KRW 57.5 billion, or $52.1 million based on applicable KRW:USD exchange rates.   

On
July 14, 2011, Tosu Premium Outlets Phase III, a 52,000 square foot expansion to the Tosu Premium Outlet located in Fukuoka, Japan, opened and, on December 8,
2011, Ami Premium Outlets Phase II, a 90,000 square foot expansion to the Ami Premium Outlets located in Ami, Japan, opened. The combined projected net cost of these projects is  
6.8 billion, of which our share is approximately  2.7 billion, or $35.3 million based on applicable Yen:USD exchange rates. Rinku Premium Outlets Phase IV, a
103,000 square foot expansion to the Rinku Premium Outlet located in Osaka, Japan, is under construction and is expected to open in July 2012. The projected net cost of this project is
 3.4 billion, of which our share is approximately  1.4 billion, or $17.5 million based on current Yen:USD exchange rates.   

On
December 2, 2011, Johor Premium Outlets, a 190,000 square foot center located in Johor, Malaysia, opened. The net cost of this project is MYR 153.0 million, of which
our share is approximately MYR 77.0 million, or $24.2 million based on applicable MYR:USD exchange rates.   

              On
May 23, 2011, we and our partner, Calloway Real Estate Investment Trust, signed a Letter of Intent to develop a Premium Outlet Center in Canada. The center will be located
near Toronto. Construction is expected to start in the spring of 2012.   

Market Risk     

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage
exposure to interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are
also exposed to foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the
derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. If the anticipated transaction does not occur, the cost is charged to consolidated net income. Upon
completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt
agreement.   

              Our
future earnings, cash flows and fair values relating to financial instruments are dependent upon prevalent market rates of interest, primarily LIBOR, which was at historically low
levels during 2011. Based upon consolidated indebtedness and interest rates at December 31, 2011, a 50 basis point increase in the market rates of interest would decrease future earnings and
cash flows by approximately $10.2 million, and would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $402.9 million.   

  90  

Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program     

              Common stock dividends during 2011 aggregated $3.50 per share, including a special December common stock dividend of $0.20 per share.
Common stock dividends during 2010 aggregated $2.60 per share. The 2011 and 2010 dividends were paid entirely in cash. We must pay a minimum amount of dividends to maintain our status as a REIT. Our
dividends typically exceed our consolidated net income generated in any given year primarily because of depreciation, which is a "non-cash" expense. Our future dividends and future
distributions of the Operating Partnership will be determined by the Board of Directors based on actual results of operations, cash available for dividends and limited partner distributions, and what
may be required to maintain our status as a REIT.   

    Forward-Looking Statements     

              Certain statements made in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although we believe the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance
that our expectations will be attained, and it is possible that our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks,
uncertainties and other factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to: our ability to meet debt service requirements, the availability and terms of financing, changes in our credit rating,
changes in market rates of interest and foreign exchange rates for foreign currencies, changes in value of investments in foreign entities, the ability to hedge interest rate risk, risks associated
with the acquisition, development, expansion, leasing and management of properties, general risks related to retail real estate, the liquidity of real estate investments, environmental liabilities,
international, national, regional and local economic climates, changes in market rental rates, trends in the retail industry, relationships with anchor tenants, the inability to collect rent due to
the bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants or otherwise, risks relating to joint venture properties, intensely competitive market environment in the retail industry, risks related to international
activities, insurance costs and coverage, terrorist activities, changes in market conditions and maintenance of our status as a real estate investment trust. We discuss these and other risks and
uncertainties under the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may update that discussion in subsequent Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, but otherwise we undertake no duty or obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or
otherwise.   

    Non-GAAP Financial Measure   Funds from Operations     

              Industry practice is to evaluate real estate properties in part based on funds from operations, or FFO. We consider FFO to be a key
measure of our operating performance that is not specifically defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. We believe that FFO is helpful to investors because it
is a widely recognized measure of the performance of REITs and provides a relevant basis for comparison among REITs. We also use this measure internally to measure the operating performance of our
portfolio.   

              We
determine FFO based on the definition set forth by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, or NAREIT, as consolidated net income computed in accordance with
GAAP:  

excluding real estate related depreciation and amortization,   
           excluding gains and losses from extraordinary items and cumulative effects of accounting changes,    
           excluding gains and losses from the sales of previously depreciated retail operating properties,    
           excluding impairment charges of depreciable real estate,   
           plus the allocable portion of FFO of unconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method of accounting based upon
economic ownership interest, and   
           all determined on a consistent basis in accordance with GAAP.    

We
have adopted NAREIT's clarification of the definition of FFO that requires us to include the effects of nonrecurring items not classified as extraordinary, cumulative effect of
accounting changes, or a gain or loss resulting from the sales of, or any impairment charges related to, previously depreciated operating properties. We include in FFO gains and losses realized from
the sale of land, outlot buildings, marketable and non-marketable securities, and   

  91  

investment
holdings of non-retail real estate. However, you should understand that our computation of FFO might not be comparable to FFO reported by other REITs and that
FFO:  

does not represent cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP,   
           should not be considered as an alternative to consolidated net income determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of
operating performance, and   
           is not an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.    

The
following schedule reconciles consolidated net income to total FFO and diluted net income per share to diluted FFO per share.   

During
the year ended December 31, 2010, FFO includes a $350.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with two unsecured notes tender offers,
reducing diluted FFO per share by $1.00 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded transaction expenses of $69.0 million, reducing diluted FFO per share by $0.20.   

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $164.7 million of other impairment charges not related to depreciable real estate, reducing FFO per share by $0.51.   

  92  

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting            

              We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, our principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by our Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and
procedures that:  

Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and
disposition of assets;   
           Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and    
           Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of
our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.    

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

We
assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.   

              Based
on that assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.   

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on their assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Their report appears on page 94
of this Annual Report.   

  93  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 based on criteria established in Internal
Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries'
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our
audit.   

              We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

              Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

In
our opinion, Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on the COSO criteria.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc.
and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2011 of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

94  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
Simon Property Group, Inc.:   

              We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of operations and comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   

              We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries' internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

95  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income   (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  96  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Balance Sheets   (Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  97  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Dollars in thousands)            

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.     

  98  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

99  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

100  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries       Consolidated Statements of Equity 
(Dollars in Thousands)     

101  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and
where indicated as in millions or billions)            

    1.    Organization     

Simon Property Group, Inc., or Simon Property, is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or
REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code. Simon Property Group, L.P., or the Operating Partnership, is our majority-owned partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties and other
assets. In these notes to consolidated financial statements, the terms "we", "us" and "our" refer to Simon Property, the Operating Partnership, and its subsidiaries.   

              We
own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of regional malls, Premium Outlets , The Mills , and community/lifestyle
centers. As of December 31, 2011, we owned or held an interest in 326 income-producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 151 regional malls, 58 Premium Outlets, 66
community/lifestyle centers, 36 properties in the Mills portfolio, and 15 other shopping centers or outlet centers in 41 states and Puerto Rico. Of the 36 properties in the Mills
portfolio, 16 of these properties are The Mills, 16 are regional malls, and four are community centers. Internationally, as of December 31, 2011, we had an ownership interest in a joint venture
which owned 45 shopping centers in Italy. As discussed in Note 14, we sold our entire ownership in this joint venture to our venture partner on January 9, 2012. Additionally, we had
ownership interests in eight Premium Outlets in Japan, two Premium Outlets in South Korea, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia.   

              We
generate the majority of our revenues from leases with retail tenants including:  

base minimum rents,   
           overage and percentage rents based on tenants' sales volume, and   
           recoveries of substantially all of our recoverable expenditures, which consist of property operating, real estate taxes,
repair and maintenance, and advertising and promotional expenditures.    

Revenues
of our management company, after intercompany eliminations, consist primarily of management fees that are typically based upon the revenues of the property being managed.   

              We
also generate supplemental revenues from the following activities:  

establishing our malls as leading market resource providers for retailers and other businesses and consumer-focused
corporate alliances, including: payment systems (such as handling fees relating to the sales of bank-issued prepaid cards), national marketing alliances, static and digital media
initiatives, business development, sponsorship, and events,   
           offering property operating services to our tenants and others, including waste handling and facility services, and the
provision of energy services,   
           selling or leasing land adjacent to our shopping center properties, commonly referred to as "outlots" or "outparcels," and    
           generating interest income on cash deposits and investments in loans, including those made to related entities.    

2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation     

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all majority-owned subsidiaries, and all significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.

We
consolidate properties that are wholly owned or properties where we own less than 100% but we control. Control of a property is demonstrated by, among other factors, our ability to
refinance debt and sell the property without the consent of any other partner or owner and the inability of any other partner or owner to replace us.   

              We
also consolidate a variable interest entity, or VIE, when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary. On January 1, 2010, we adopted the amendment on the accounting and
disclosure requirements for the consolidation of VIEs. This amendment requires an enterprise to perform a qualitative analysis when determining whether or not it must consolidate a VIE. The amendment
also requires an enterprise to continuously reassess whether it must consolidate a VIE. Additionally, the amendment requires enhanced disclosures about an enterprise's involvement with VIEs and any
significant change in risk exposure due to that involvement, as well as how its involvement with VIEs impacts the enterprise's financial statements. Finally, an enterprise will be required to disclose
significant judgments and assumptions used to determine whether or not to consolidate a VIE. The adoption of this amendment did not have a significant impact on our financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.   

              Determination
of the primary beneficiary of a VIE is based on whether an entity (1) has the power to direct activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of
the VIE and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to   

  102  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    2.    Basis of Presentation and Consolidation (Continued)    

  the
VIE. Our determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE considers all relationships between us and the VIE, including management agreements and other contractual arrangements. There have been
no changes during
2011 in previous conclusions about whether an entity qualifies as a VIE or whether we are the primary beneficiary of any previously identified VIE. During 2011, we did not provide financial or other
support to a previously identified VIE that we were not previously contractually obligated to provide.   

              Investments
in partnerships and joint ventures represent our noncontrolling ownership interests in properties. We account for these investments using the equity method of accounting. We
initially record these investments at cost and we subsequently adjust for net equity in income or loss, which we allocate in accordance with the provisions of the applicable partnership or joint
venture agreement, and cash contributions and distributions. The allocation provisions in the partnership or joint venture agreements are not always consistent with the legal ownership interests held
by each general or limited partner or joint venture investee primarily due to partner preferences. We separately report investments in joint ventures for which accumulated distributions have exceeded
investments in and our share of net income of the joint ventures within cash distributions and losses in partnerships and joint ventures, at equity in the consolidated balance sheets. The net equity
of certain joint ventures is less than zero because of financing or operating distributions that are usually greater than net income, as net income includes non-cash charges for
depreciation and amortization.   

              As
of December 31, 2011, we consolidated 219 wholly-owned properties and 20 additional properties that are less than wholly-owned, but which we control or for which we are the
primary beneficiary. We account for the remaining 144 properties, or the joint venture properties, using the equity method of accounting. We manage the day-to-day
operations of 85 of the 144 joint venture properties, but have determined that our partner or partners have substantive participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of these joint
venture properties. Our investments in joint ventures in Italy, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, and Mexico comprise 57 of the remaining 59 properties. The international properties are managed by
joint ventures in which we share oversight responsibility with our partner. Additionally, we account for our investment in SPG-FCM Ventures, LLC, or SPG-FCM, which holds our
interest in The Mills Limited Partnership, or Mills, using the equity method of accounting. We have determined that SPG-FCM is not a VIE and that our joint venture partner has substantive
participating rights with respect to the assets and operations of SPG-FCM pursuant to the applicable partnership agreements.   

              We
allocate net operating results of the Operating Partnership after preferred distributions to third parties and to us based on the partners' respective weighted average ownership
interests in the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of the Operating Partnership attributable to third parties are reflected in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.   

Our
weighted average ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was as follows:   

As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our ownership interest in the Operating Partnership was 82.8% and 82.9%, respectively. We adjust the
noncontrolling limited partners' interest at the end of each period to reflect their interest in the Operating Partnership.   

Reclassifications      

We made certain reclassifications of prior period amounts in the consolidated financial statements to conform to the 2011 presentation.
These reclassifications had no impact on previously reported net income attributable to common stockholders or earnings per share.   

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

Investment Properties      

We record investment properties at cost. Investment properties include costs of acquisitions; development, predevelopment, and
construction (including allocable salaries and related benefits); tenant allowances and improvements; and interest and real estate taxes incurred during construction. We capitalize improvements and
replacements from repair and maintenance when the repair and maintenance extends the useful life, increases capacity, or improves the efficiency of the asset. All other repair and maintenance items
are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest on projects during periods of construction until   

  103  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  the
projects are ready for their intended purpose based on interest rates in place during the construction period. The amount of interest capitalized during each year is as follows:   

We record depreciation on buildings and improvements utilizing the straight-line method over an estimated original useful life, which
is generally 10 to 40 years. We review depreciable lives of investment properties periodically and we make adjustments when necessary to reflect a shorter economic life. We amortize tenant
allowances, tenant inducements and tenant improvements utilizing the straight-line method over the term of the related lease or occupancy term of the tenant, if shorter. We record
depreciation on equipment and fixtures utilizing the straight-line method over seven to ten years.   

              We
review investment properties for impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
investment properties may not be recoverable. These circumstances include, but are not limited to, declines in a property's cash flows, ending occupancy or total sales per square foot. We measure any
impairment of investment property when the estimated undiscounted operating income before depreciation and amortization plus its residual value is less than the carrying value of the property. To the
extent impairment has occurred, we charge to income the excess of carrying value of the property over its estimated fair value. We estimate fair value using unobservable data such as operating income,
estimated capitalization rates, or multiples, leasing prospects and local market information. We may decide to sell properties that are held for use and the sale prices of these properties may differ
from their carrying values. We also review our investments including investments in unconsolidated entities if events or circumstances change indicating that the carrying amount of our investments may
not be recoverable. We will
record an impairment charge if we determine that a decline in the fair value of the investments is other-than-temporary. Changes in economic and operating conditions that occur
subsequent to our review of recoverability of investment property and other assets could impact the assumptions used in that assessment and could result in future charges to earnings if assumptions
regarding those investments differ from actual results.   

Purchase Accounting Allocation      

We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based upon the fair value of each component
which may be derived from various observable or unobservable inputs and assumptions. Also, we may utilize third party valuation specialists. These components typically include buildings, land and
intangibles related to in-place leases and we estimate:  

the fair value of land and related improvements and buildings on an as-if-vacant basis,    
           the market value of in-place leases based upon our best estimate of current market rents and amortize the
resulting market rent adjustment into revenues,   
           the value of costs to obtain tenants, including tenant allowances and improvements and leasing commissions, and    
           the value of revenue and recovery of costs foregone during a reasonable lease-up period, as if the space was
vacant.    

Amounts
allocated to building are depreciated over the estimated remaining life of the acquired building or related improvements. We amortize amounts allocated to tenant improvements,
in-place lease assets and other lease-related intangibles over the remaining life of the underlying leases. We also estimate the value of other acquired intangible assets, if any, which
are amortized over the remaining life of the underlying related intangibles.   

Discontinued Operations      

We reclassify any material operations and gains or losses on disposal related to consolidated properties disposed of during the period
to discontinued operations. During 2011, we reported a net loss of approximately $42.4 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, on our consolidated property disposition activity. During 2010, we
reported a net gain of approximately $5.7 million upon the disposal of four retail properties. During 2009, we reported a net loss of approximately $9.8 million upon the sale of four
consolidated assets. These gains and losses are reported in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and on sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in
the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The gains and losses on the disposition of these assets and the operating results were not significant to our consolidated results
of operations.   

  104  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

Cash and Cash Equivalents      

We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash and cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents generally consist of commercial paper, bankers acceptances, Eurodollars, repurchase agreements, and
money market deposits or securities. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include our cash and cash equivalents and our trade accounts receivable. We
place our cash and cash equivalents with institutions with high credit quality. However, at certain times, such cash and cash equivalents may be in excess of FDIC and SIPC insurance limits. See
Notes 4, 8, and 10 for disclosures about non-cash investing and financing transactions.   

Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities      

Marketable securities consist primarily of the investments of our captive insurance subsidiaries,
available-for-sale securities, our deferred compensation plan investments, and certain investments held to fund the debt service requirements of debt previously secured by
investment properties that have been sold.   

              The
types of securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries typically include U.S. Treasury or other U.S. government securities as well as
corporate debt securities with maturities ranging from
less than 1 to 10 years. These securities are classified as available-for-sale and are valued based upon quoted market prices or other observable inputs when quoted
market prices are not available. The amortized cost of debt securities, which approximates fair value, held by our captive insurance subsidiaries is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion
of discounts to maturity. Changes in the values of these securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the gain or loss is realized or until any unrealized loss is
deemed to be other-than-temporary. We review any declines in value of these securities for other-than-temporary impairment and consider the severity and
duration of any decline in value. To the extent an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis is
established. Subsequent changes are then recognized through other comprehensive income (loss) unless another other-than-temporary impairment is deemed to have occurred.   

              Our
investments in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, or CSCG, and Capital   Counties Properties PLC, or CAPC, are accounted for as available-for-sale
securities. These investments are adjusted to their quoted market price, including a related foreign exchange component, with corresponding adjustment in other comprehensive income (loss). At
December 31, 2011, we owned 35.4 million shares of CSCG and CAPC. At December 31, 2011 the market value of our investments in CSCG and CAPC was $170.7 million and
$100.9 million, respectively, with an aggregate net unrealized gain on these investments of approximately $39.7 million. The market value of our investments in CSCG and CAPC at
December 31, 2010 was $228.4 million and $82.4 million, respectively, with an aggregate net unrealized gain of $79.0 million.   

              Effective
May 7, 2010, CSCG and CAPC were de-merged from Liberty International PLC, or Liberty. During 2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of
$140.5 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, representing an other-than-temporary impairment in fair value below the carrying value of our investment in Liberty. As a
result, changes in available-for-sale securities and other in the 2009 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income include the reclassification of
$140.5 million from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings related to this non-cash charge. Effective July 1, 2009, we resumed marking to market our
Liberty investment through other comprehensive income (loss).   

              Our
insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain statutory minimum capital and surplus as well as maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. Therefore, our access to these securities may be
limited. Our deferred compensation plan investments are classified as trading securities and are valued based upon quoted market prices. The investments have a matching liability as the amounts are
fully payable to the employees that earned the compensation. Changes in value of these securities and changes to the matching liability to employees are both recognized in earnings and, as a result,
there is no impact to consolidated net income. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we also had investments of $24.9 million which must be used to fund the debt service requirements of
mortgage debt related to investment properties that previously collateralized the debt. These investments are classified as held-to-maturity and are recorded at amortized cost
as we have the ability and intent to hold these investments to maturity.   

At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had investments of $105.1 million and $72.4 million, respectively, in non-marketable securities that we account for
under the cost method. We regularly evaluate these investments for any other-than-temporary decline in their estimated fair value and determined that no adjustment in the
carrying value was required as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.   

              Total
net unrealized gains as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were approximately $41.9 million and $79.3 million, respectively, and represented the valuation and
related currency adjustments for our available-for-sale marketable securities. As of December 31, 2011, we did not consider any declines in value   

  105  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  of
any of our marketable and non-marketable securities to be an other-than-temporary impairment, as these market value declines, if any, have existed for a short
period of time, and, in the case of debt securities, we have the ability and intent to hold these securities to maturity.   

Fair Value Measurements      

We hold marketable securities that totaled $417.0 million and $511.3 million at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, respectively, and are considered to have Level 1 fair value inputs. In addition, we have derivative instruments which are classified as having Level 2 inputs
which consist primarily of interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward contracts with a gross liability balance of $12.2 million and $27.6 million at December 31,
2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, a gross asset balance of $14.9 million at December 31, 2011 and a nominal asset value at December 31, 2010. We also have interest
rate cap agreements with nominal asset values.   

              Level 1
fair value inputs are quoted prices for identical items in active, liquid and visible markets such as stock exchanges. Level 2 fair value inputs are observable
information for similar items in active or inactive markets, and appropriately consider counterparty creditworthiness in the valuations. Level 3 fair value inputs reflect our best estimate of
inputs and assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability at the measurement date. The inputs are unobservable in the market and significant to the valuation estimate.   

              Note
8 includes a discussion of the fair value of debt measured using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs. Note 4 includes a discussion of the fair values recorded in
purchase accounting and impairment, using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs. Level 3 inputs to our purchase accounting and impairment include our estimations of net operating results of
the property, capitalization rates and discount rates.   

Use of Estimates      

We prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States, or GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements, and revenues and expenses during the reported period. Our actual results could differ from these estimates.   

Segment Disclosure      

Our primary business is the ownership, development, and management of retail real estate. We have aggregated our retail operations,
including regional malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, and community/lifestyle centers, into one reportable segment because they have similar economic characteristics and we provide similar products
and services to similar types of tenants.   

Deferred Costs and Other Assets      

Deferred costs and other assets include the following as of December 31:   

Deferred Financing and Lease Costs      

Our deferred costs consist primarily of financing fees we incurred in order to obtain long-term financing and internal and
external leasing commissions and related costs. We record amortization of deferred financing costs on a straight-line basis over the terms of the respective loans or agreements. Our
deferred   

  106  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  leasing
costs consist primarily of capitalized salaries and related benefits in connection with lease originations. We record amortization of deferred leasing costs on a straight-line
basis over the terms of the related leases. Details of these deferred costs as of December 31 are as follows:   

We report amortization of deferred financing costs, amortization of premiums, and accretion of discounts as part of interest expense. Amortization
of deferred leasing costs is a component of depreciation and amortization expense. We amortize debt premiums and discounts, which are included in mortgages and other indebtedness, over the remaining
terms of the related debt instruments. These debt premiums or discounts arise either at the debt issuance or as part of the purchase price allocation of the fair value of debt assumed in acquisitions.
The accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income include amortization as follows:   

Loans Held for Investment      

From time to time, we may make investments in mortgage loans or mezzanine loans of third parties that own and operate commercial real
estate assets located in the United States. Mortgage loans are secured, in part, by mortgages recorded against the underlying properties which are not owned by us. Mezzanine loans are secured, in
part, by pledges of ownership interests of the entities that own the underlying real estate. Loans held for investment are carried at cost, net of any premiums or discounts which are accreted or
amortized over the life of the related loan receivable utilizing the effective interest method. We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of these loans quarterly to
determine whether the value has been impaired. A loan is deemed to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according
to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the loan held for investment to its estimated realizable
value.   

              At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had investments in three and six mortgage and mezzanine loans, respectively, with an aggregate carrying value of $162.8 million and
$395.9 million, respectively. These loans mature at various dates through October 2012 with a weighted average maturity of approximately 6 months as of December 31, 2011. Certain
of these loans require interest-only payments while others require payments of interest and principal based on a 30 year amortization. Interest rates on these loans are fixed
between 5.9% and 7.0% per annum with a weighted average interest rate of approximately 6.3% and approximate market rates for instruments of similar quality and duration. During 2011 and 2010, we
recorded $24.3 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in interest income earned from these loans held for investment. Payments on each of these loans were current as of
December 31, 2011.   

              On
December 9, 2011, we paid consideration of $88.8 million to acquire a 50% equity interest in two real estate developments for which we had previously agreed to fund as
the construction lender. The loans primarily bear interest at 7.0% and mature in May and July 2013. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate amount drawn on the loans was $50.7 million. We
consolidated these assets as of the acquisition date and, accordingly, amounts drawn on the loans are eliminated in consolidation.   

Intangible Assets      

The average life of in-place lease intangibles is approximately 4.4 years and is amortized over the remaining life
of the leases of the related property on the straight-line basis and is included with depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.
The amount of in-place lease intangibles increased during 2010 as a result of the acquisition of Prime Outlets Acquisition Company, or the Prime acquisition, as further discussed in
Note 4. The fair market value of above and below market leases is amortized into revenue over the remaining lease life as a component of reported minimum rents. The weighted average remaining
life of these intangibles is approximately 4.0 years. The unamortized amount of below market leases is   

  107  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  included
in accounts payable, accrued expenses, intangibles and deferred revenues in the consolidated balance sheets and was $134.4 million and $39.0 million as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively. The amount of amortization of above and below market leases, net for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $17.6 million,
$15.2 million, and $20.0 million, respectively. If a lease is terminated prior to the original lease termination, any remaining unamortized intangible is charged to earnings.   

              Details
of intangible assets as of December 31 are as follows:   

108  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)     

Estimated future amortization and the increasing (decreasing) effect on minimum rents for our above and below market leases as of December 31, 2011 are as follows:

Derivative Financial Instruments      

We record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on
the intended use of the derivative, whether we have elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the
criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. We use a variety of derivative financial instruments in the normal course of business to selectively manage or hedge the risks associated with our
indebtedness and interest payments. Our objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage our exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this
objective, we primarily use interest rate swaps and caps. We require that hedging derivative instruments be highly effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. As a
result, there was no significant ineffectiveness from any of our derivative activities during the period. We formally designate any instrument that meets these hedging criteria as a hedge at the
inception of the derivative contract. We have no credit-risk-related hedging or derivative activities.   

              As
of December 31, 2011, we had the following outstanding interest rate derivatives related to interest rate risk:   

Interest Rate Derivative

Number of Instruments

Notional Amount

Interest Rate Swaps  
     
  3  
     
  $485.8 million  

Interest Rate Caps  
     
  3  
     
  $381.3 million  

The
carrying value of our interest rate swap agreements, at fair value, is a net liability balance of $10.0 million and $19.5 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is included in other liabilities and accrued dividends. The interest rate cap agreements were of nominal value at December 31, 2011 and 2010
and we generally do not apply hedge accounting to these arrangements.   

We
are also exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on financial instruments which are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily in Japan and Europe. We use currency
forward contracts to manage our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates on certain Yen and Euro-denominated receivables and net investments. Currency forward contracts involve fixing
the Yen-USD or Euro-USD exchange rate for delivery of a specified amount of foreign currency on a specified date. The currency forward contracts are typically cash settled in
US dollars for their fair value at or close to their settlement date. Approximately  2.6 billion remains as of December 31, 2011 for all forward contracts. We entered into
Yen-USD forward contracts during 2009 for approximately  3 billion that we received through April 2011 and we entered into Yen-USD forward contracts during
2010 for  1.7 billion that we expect to receive through October 2012. In 2011, we entered into additional Yen-USD forward contracts for approximately
 3.8 billion that we expect to receive through October 1, 2013. The December 31, 2011 net liability balance related to these forwards was $2.2 million and is
included in other liabilities and accrued distributions. We have reported the   

  110  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

changes
in fair value for these forward contracts in earnings. The underlying currency adjustments on the foreign currency denominated receivables are also reflected in income and generally offset the
amounts in earnings for these forward contracts. In 2011, we entered into a Euro-USD forward contract with a  141.3 million notional value maturing on
January 31, 2012 which was designated as a net investment hedge. The December 31, 2011 asset balance related to this forward was $14.9 million and is included in deferred costs
and other assets. We apply hedge accounting and the change in fair value for this Euro forward contract is reflected in other comprehensive income. Changes in the value of this hedge are offset by
changes in
the underlying hedged Euro-denominated joint venture investment. In connection with our sale of Gallerie Commerciali Italia, S.p.A., or GCI, as further discussed in Note 14, this
hedge was terminated.   

              The
total gross accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our derivative activities, including our share of the other comprehensive loss from joint venture properties and
terminated hedging relationships, approximated $115.8 million and $40.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   

Noncontrolling Interests and Temporary Equity      

Details of the carrying amount of our noncontrolling interests are as follows as of December 31:   

Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests (which includes nonredeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, limited partners' interests in the
Operating Partnership, redeemable noncontrolling interests in consolidated properties, and preferred distributions payable by the Operating Partnership) is a component of consolidated net income. In
addition, the individual components of other comprehensive income (loss) are presented in the aggregate for both controlling and noncontrolling interests, with the portion attributable to
noncontrolling interests deducted from comprehensive income attributable to common stockholders.   

  111  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

A
rollforward of noncontrolling interests for the years ending December 31 is as follows:   

(1)    The
2009 activity includes non-cash distributions of $133.7 million representing the portion of quarterly distributions paid in units of
limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units.    

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)      

The components of our accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted of the following as of December 31:   

Revenue Recognition      

We, as a lessor, retain substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the investment properties and account for our
leases as operating leases. We accrue minimum rents on a straight-line basis over the terms of their respective leases. Substantially all of our retail tenants are also required to pay
overage rents based on sales over a stated base amount during the lease year. We recognize overage rents only when each tenant's sales exceed the applicable sales threshold.   

  112  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

              We
structure our leases to allow us to recover a significant portion of our property operating, real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance, and advertising and promotion expenses from
our tenants. A substantial portion of our leases, other than those for anchor stores, require the tenant to reimburse us for a substantial portion of our operating expenses, including common area
maintenance, or CAM, real estate taxes and insurance. This significantly reduces our exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. Such property operating expenses
typically include utility, insurance, security, janitorial, landscaping, food court and other administrative expenses. We accrue reimbursements from tenants for recoverable portions of all these
expenses as revenue in the period the applicable expenditures are incurred. As of December 31, 2011 for approximately 89% of our leases in the U.S. regional mall portfolio, we receive a fixed
payment from the tenant for the CAM component. When not reimbursed by the fixed-CAM component, CAM expense reimbursements are based on the tenant's proportionate share of the allocable
operating expenses and CAM capital expenditures for the property. We also receive escrow payments for these reimbursements from substantially all our non-fixed CAM tenants and monthly
fixed CAM payments throughout the year. We recognize differences between estimated recoveries and the final billed amounts in the subsequent year. These differences were not material in any period
presented. Our advertising and promotional costs are expensed as incurred.   

Management Fees and Other Revenues      

Management fees and other revenues are generally received from our unconsolidated joint venture properties as well as third parties.
Management fee revenue is earned based on a contractual percentage of joint venture property revenue. Development fee revenue is earned on a contractual percentage of hard costs to develop a property.
Leasing fee revenue is earned on a contractual per square foot charge based on the square footage of current year leasing activity. We recognize revenue for these services provided when earned based
on the underlying activity.   

              Insurance
premiums written and ceded are recognized on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. Insurance losses are reflected in property operating expenses in the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income and include estimates for losses incurred but not reported as well as
losses pending settlement. Estimates for losses are based on evaluations by third-party actuaries and management's estimates. Total insurance reserves for our insurance subsidiaries and other
self-insurance programs as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 approximated $115.1 million and $116.2 million, respectively, and are included in other liabilities and
accrued dividends in the consolidated balance sheets. Information related to the securities included in the investment portfolio of our captive insurance subsidiaries is included within the
"Marketable and Non-Marketable Securities" section above.   

              We
recognize fee revenues from our co-branded gift card programs when the fees are earned under the related arrangements with the card issuer. Generally, these revenues are
recorded at the issuance of the gift card for handling fees.   

Allowance for Credit Losses      

We record a provision for credit losses based on our judgment of a tenant's creditworthiness, ability to pay and probability of
collection. In addition, we also consider the retail sector in which the tenant operates and our historical   

  113  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

collection
experience in cases of bankruptcy, if applicable. Accounts are written off when they are deemed to be no longer collectible. Presented below is the activity in the allowance for credit
losses during the following years:   

Income Taxes      

We and certain subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership have elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code and applicable Treasury regulations relating to REIT qualification. In order to maintain this REIT status, the regulations require the entity to distribute at least 90% of
taxable income to its owners and meet certain other asset and income tests as well as other requirements. We intend to continue to adhere to these requirements and maintain our REIT status and that of
the REIT subsidiaries. As REITs, these entities will generally not be liable for federal corporate income taxes as long as they continue to distribute in excess of 100% of their taxable income. Thus,
we made no provision for federal income taxes for these entities in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. If we or any of the REIT subsidiaries fail to qualify as a REIT, we or that
entity will be subject to tax at regular corporate rates for the years in which it failed to qualify. If we lose our REIT status we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four years unless our
failure to qualify was due to reasonable cause and certain other conditions were satisfied.   

We
have also elected taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, status for some of our subsidiaries. This enables us to provide services that would otherwise be considered impermissible for REITs
and participate in activities that do not qualify as "rents from real property". For these entities, deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for temporary differences between the financial
reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is
provided if we believe all or some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. An increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from the change in circumstances that causes a
change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred tax asset is included in income.   

              As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had a net deferred tax asset of $5.6 million and $9.0 million, respectively, related to our TRS subsidiaries. The net deferred
tax asset is included in deferred costs and other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consists primarily of operating losses and other carryforwards for federal income tax
purposes as well as the timing of the deductibility of losses or reserves from insurance subsidiaries. No valuation allowance has been recorded as we believe these amounts will be realized. State
income, franchise or other taxes were not significant in any of the periods presented.   

Transaction Expenses      

We expense acquisition, potential acquisition and disposition related costs as they are incurred. We incurred a minimal amount of
transaction expenses during the year ended December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we incurred costs in connection with the Prime acquisition and other potential
acquisitions, as further discussed in Note 4. In addition, during 2010, we settled, in cash, a transaction-related dispute and recorded a charge to earnings. These expenses are included within
transaction expenses in the accompanying statements of operations and comprehensive income and totaled $69.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. During the   

  114  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    3.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)    

  year
ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $5.7 million in transaction expenses related to costs associated with significant acquisition related activities.   

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment     

We acquire properties to generate both current income and long-term appreciation in value. We acquire individual properties or portfolios of other retail real estate
companies that meet our investment criteria and sell properties which no longer meet our strategic criteria. Our consolidated acquisition and disposal activity for the periods presented are
highlighted as follows:   

2011 Acquisitions      

On December 31, 2011, we and our joint venture partner dissolved a venture in which we had a 50% interest and distributed a
portfolio of properties previously held within the venture to us and our joint venture partner. As a result, we have a 100% interest in and now consolidate the six properties we received in the
distribution. The distribution resulted in a remeasurement of the distributed assets to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of approximately $168.3 million representing the
fair value of the net assets received in excess of the carrying value of our interest in the joint venture portfolio. The resulting gain and
the asset and liability fair value allocation were recorded based on preliminary portfolio fair value estimates at the date of distribution and will be finalized in 2012.   

              On
August 25, 2011, we acquired additional controlling interests of approximately 83.75% in The Plaza at King of Prussia and The Court at King of Prussia, or, collectively, King
of Prussia, thereby increasing our ownership interest to 96.1%. The property is subject to a $160.1 million mortgage. The consolidation of this previously unconsolidated property resulted in a
remeasurement of our previously held interest to fair value and a corresponding non-cash gain of $82.9 million.   

              On
July 19, 2011, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in ABQ Uptown, a lifestyle center located in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Also, during the second quarter, we purchased an
additional noncontrolling interest in an unconsolidated regional mall.   

              During
the third quarter of 2011 we contributed a wholly-owned property to a joint venture which holds our interests in nine unconsolidated properties. The transaction effectively
exchanged a portion of our interest in this previously wholly-owned property for increased ownership interests in the nine unconsolidated properties. This transaction had no material impact on the
statement of operations.   

              The
gains on the above transactions are included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and on sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities,
net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. The aggregate cash purchase price for these acquisitions was $1.18 billion. We reflected the assets and
liabilities of these assets at estimated fair value at the respective acquisition dates, the majority of which was allocated to the investment property and related acquired lease intangibles. The
purchase price allocation is preliminary and subject to revision within the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition.   

2010 Acquisitions      

During 2010, we acquired a controlling interest in a previously unconsolidated regional mall which resulted in a remeasurement of our
previously held equity interest to fair value and corresponding gain of approximately $13.0 million. This gain is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests and on sale
or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. On May 28, 2010, we acquired an
additional interest of approximately 19% in Houston Galleria, located in Houston, Texas thereby increasing our noncontrolling interest from 31.5% to 50.4%.   

  115  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    4.    Real Estate Acquisitions, Disposals, and Impairment (Continued)    

              On
August 30, 2010, we completed the Prime acquisition, adding 21 outlet centers, including a center located in Puerto Rico, which was acquired on May 13, 2010. The
transaction was valued at approximately $2.3 billion, including the assumption of existing mortgage indebtedness of $1.2 billion and the repayment of $310.7 million of preexisting
mortgage loans at closing. We paid consideration comprised of 80% cash and 20% in units of the Operating Partnership. We issued approximately 1.7 million units with an issuance date fair value
of approximately $154.5 million. We funded the cash portion of this acquisition through draws on our unsecured revolving credit facility.   

              We
recorded our acquisition of these 21 outlet centers using the acquisition method of accounting. Tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were established based on their
estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations of the acquired properties have been included in our consolidated results from the date of acquisition. The purchase price
allocations were finalized during the second quarter of 2011.   

2009 Acquisitions      

We had no consolidated property acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2009.   

2011 Dispositions      

During 2011, we agreed to dispose of consolidated properties that had an aggregate carrying value of $355.04 million and debt
obligations of $177.0 million for aggregate sales proceeds of $136.0 million resulting in a net loss of $42.4 million. The gains and losses on these disposals are included in gain
(loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2010 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2010, we disposed of three retail properties with an aggregate carrying value of
$91.4 million and debt obligations of $91.3 million for which we received aggregate sale proceeds of $5.8 million. The net gain on these disposals was $5.7 million and is
included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income.   

2009 Dispositions      

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold four retail properties with an aggregate carrying value of $13.7 million
for which we received proceeds of $3.9 million. The net loss on these disposals totaled $9.8 million and is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and sale or
disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income.   

2009 Impairment      

In 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $240.1 million ($228.6 million, net of a tax benefit of
$5.8 million and noncontrolling interest holders' share of $5.7 million). As discussed in Note 3, this non-cash charge includes a $140.5 million
other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in an available-for-sale security. In addition, the total charge includes adjustments in the carrying
value of one wholly-owned and one joint venture regional mall, a write-down of five land parcels and two joint venture non-retail real estate assets, and certain predevelopment
costs related to projects no longer being pursued.   

  116  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    5.    Per Share Data     

We determine basic earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and we consider any participating securities
for
purposes of applying the two-class method. We determine diluted earnings per share based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding combined with the incremental
weighted average shares that would have been outstanding assuming all dilutive potential common shares were converted into shares at the earliest date possible. The following table sets forth the
computation of our basic and diluted earnings per share.   

For
the year ending December 31, 2011, potentially dilutive securities include stock options, units that are exchangeable for common stock and
long-term incentive performance, or LTIP units, granted under our long-term incentive performance programs that are convertible into units and exchangeable for common stock.
The only securities that had a dilutive effect for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were stock options. The only securities that had a dilutive effect for the year ended
December 31, 2009 were stock options and contingently issuable shares from stock dividends.   

We
accrue dividends when they are declared. The taxable nature of the dividends declared for each of the years ended as indicated is summarized as follows:   

117  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    6.    Investment Properties     

Investment properties consist of the following as of December 31:   

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities     

Joint ventures are common in the real estate industry. We use joint ventures to finance properties, develop new properties, and diversify our risk in a particular property or
portfolio
of properties. We held joint venture ownership interests in 87 properties in the United States as of December 31, 2011 and 101 properties as of December 31, 2010. As discussed in
Note 14, on January 9, 2012, we sold our interest in GCI which owned 45 shopping centers in Italy. As of December 31, 2011, we also held interests in eight joint venture
properties in Japan, two joint venture properties in South Korea, one joint venture property in Mexico, and one joint venture property in Malaysia. We account for these joint venture properties using
the equity method of accounting.   

              Substantially
all of our joint venture properties are subject to rights of first refusal, buy-sell provisions, or other sale or marketing rights for partners which are
customary in real estate joint venture agreements and the industry. We and our partners in these joint ventures may initiate these provisions at any time (subject to any applicable lock up or similar
restrictions), which could result in either the sale of our interest or the use of available cash or borrowings to acquire the joint venture interest from our partner.   

              In
May 2010, Opry Mills, a property in which we have a 50% interest through our SPG-FCM joint venture, sustained significant flood damage and substantially all of the
property remains closed. Insurance proceeds of $50 million have been funded by the insurers and remediation work has been completed. The excess insurance carriers (those providing coverage
above $50 million) have denied the joint venture's claim under the policy for additional proceeds (of up to $150 million) to pay further amounts for restoration costs and business
interruption losses. We have obtained additional financing of $120 million from the existing mortgage lenders and, in April 2011, commenced rebuilding the center with an expected opening in
March of 2012. We and our lenders are continuing our efforts through pending litigation to recover our losses under the excess insurance policies for Opry Mills and we believe recovery is probable,
but no assurances can be made that our efforts to recover these funds will be successful.   

              On
December 31, 2011, as further discussed in Note 4, we and our joint venture partner dissolved a venture in which we had a 50% interest and distributed a portfolio of
properties previously held within the venture to us and our joint venture partner. The results of operations of these properties are now presented as income from discontinued joint venture interests
and the non-cash gain recorded upon distribution to the partners is presented within gain on sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities in the "Summary Financial
Information" below.   

     Loans to SPG-FCM      

              The Operating Partnership has a loan to SPG-FCM with an outstanding balance of $651.0 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010. The loan bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 275 basis points and matures on June 7, 2012. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded approximately
$9.8 million, $9.9 million and $9.3 million in interest   

  118  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

  income
(net of inter-entity eliminations) related to this loan, respectively. We also recorded fee income, including fee income amortization related to up-front fees on loans made to
SPG-FCM and Mills, during 2011, 2010 and 2009, of approximately $1.0 million, $0.9 million and $3.7 million (net of inter-entity eliminations), respectively, for
providing refinancing services to Mills' properties and SPG-FCM.   

     International Joint Venture Investments      

We conduct our international operations through joint venture arrangements and account for all of our international joint venture
investments using the equity method of accounting   

                 European Joint Ventures.        At December 31, 2011, we had a 49.0% ownership interest in GCI, a joint
venture with Auchan S.A., which owned
45 properties located in Italy. The carrying amount of our investment in GCI was $331.9 million and $330.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, including
all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As discussed in Note 14, we sold our entire interest in GCI to our venture partner on January 9, 2012.   

On
July 15, 2010, we and our partner in Simon Ivanhoe S. .r.l., or Simon Ivanhoe, sold our collective interests in Simon Ivanhoe which owned seven shopping centers
located in France and Poland to Unibail-Rodamco. The joint venture partners received net consideration of  422.5 million for their interests after the repayment of all joint
venture debt, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Our share of the gain on sale of our interests in Simon Ivanhoe was approximately $281 million.   

                 Asian Joint Ventures.        We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in Japan through a joint
venture with Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. We
have a 40.0% ownership interest in this joint venture. The carrying amount of our investment in this joint venture was $349.5 million and $340.8 million as of December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We conduct our international Premium Outlet operations in South Korea through a joint venture
with Shinsegae International Co. We have a 50.0% ownership interest in this joint venture. The carrying amount of our investment in this joint venture was $43.8 million and $35.7 million
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, including all related components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   

In
December 2009, we recognized a loss on our 32.5% interest in shopping centers operating or under development in China. The interests were sold to affiliates of our Chinese partner
for approximately $29 million, resulting in a loss of approximately $20 million which is included in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and on sale or disposal of
assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the 2009 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income.   

     Summary Financial Information      

              A summary of our investments in joint ventures and share of income from such joint ventures follows. The statement of operations for
the year ended December 31, 2010 includes amounts related to our investment in Simon Ivanhoe which was sold on July 15, 2010 and GCI which was sold on January 9, 2012. We acquired
additional   

  119  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

  controlling
interests in King of Prussia on August 25, 2011, and as a result, this previously unconsolidated property is now a consolidated property as of the acquisition date. Balance sheet
information for the joint ventures is as follows:   

"Excess
Investment" represents the unamortized difference of our investment over our share of the equity in the underlying net assets of the joint ventures acquired. We
amortize excess investment over the life of the related properties, typically no greater than 40 years, and the amortization is included in the reported amount of income from unconsolidated
entities.   

              As
of December 31, 2011, scheduled principal repayments on joint venture properties' mortgages and other indebtedness are as follows:   

120  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

This
debt becomes due in installments over various terms extending through 2036 with interest rates ranging from 0.49% to 9.35% and a weighted average rate of 5.02% at
December 31, 2011.   

2011 Dispositions      

In April 2011 we disposed of our interest in an unconsolidated regional mall, resulting in a gain of $7.8 million. This gain is
reported in gain (loss) upon acquisition of controlling interests, and on sale or disposal of assets and interests in unconsolidated entities, net in the consolidated statements of operations and
comprehensive income.   

  121  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    7.    Investments in Unconsolidated Entities (Continued)    

2010 Impairment      

In December 2010, we recognized an $8.2 million non-cash impairment charge representing our share of impairment on a
joint venture investment in a property in Italy for which the decline in value below our carrying amount was deemed other-than-temporary.   

2009 Impairment      

In December 2009 we recognized non-cash impairment charges of $7.6 million representing our share of impairment
charges on joint venture properties. These charges represent adjustments to the carrying value of certain parcels of land and the write-off of predevelopment costs related to certain
projects no longer being pursued. In addition, in December 2009 we recognized $35.1 million of impairment charges for investments in certain unconsolidated entities including one regional mall
and two non-retail real estate assets for which declines in value below our carrying amount were deemed other-than-temporary.   

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments     

Our mortgages and other indebtedness, excluding the impact of derivative instruments, consist of the following as of December 31:   

General.        Our unsecured debt contains financial covenants and other non-financial covenants. If we were
to fail to comply with these
covenants, after the expiration of the applicable cure periods, the debt maturity could be accelerated or other remedies could be sought by the lender including adjustments to the applicable interest
rate. As of December 31, 2011, we are in compliance with all covenants of our unsecured debt.   

At
December 31, 2011, we or our subsidiaries are the borrowers under 89 non-recourse mortgage notes secured by mortgages on 89 properties, including 10 separate pools
of cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized mortgages encumbering a total of 44 properties. Under these cross-default provisions, a default under any mortgage included in the cross-defaulted
pool may constitute a default under all mortgages within that pool and may lead to acceleration of the indebtedness due on each property within the pool. Certain of our secured debt contains financial
and other non-financial covenants which are specific to the properties which serve as collateral for that debt. If the borrower fails to comply with these covenants, the lender could
accelerate the debt and enforce its right against their collateral. At December 31, 2011, the applicable borrowers under these non-recourse mortgage notes were in compliance with
all covenants where non-compliance could individually, or giving effect to applicable cross-default provisions, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.   

  122  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries     

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)     

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)     

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)     

     Unsecured Debt      

              At December 31, 2011, our unsecured debt consisted of $10.7 billion of senior unsecured notes of the Operating
Partnership and $952.7 million outstanding under our $4.0 billion unsecured credit facility, or the Credit Facility. The December 31, 2011 balance included $287.7 million
(U.S. dollar equivalent) of Yen-denominated borrowings. On December 31, 2011, we had available borrowing capacity of approximately $3.0 billion under the Credit
Facility. The maximum outstanding balance of the Credit Facility or the predecessor facility during the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.8 billion and the weighted average outstanding
balance was approximately $1.1 billion. Letters of credit of approximately $36.0 million were outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011.   

              On
October 5, 2011, we replaced our previous unsecured revolving credit facility and entered into the new Credit Facility, which provides an initial borrowing capacity of
$4.0 billion, which can be increased at our option to $5.0 billion during its term. The Credit Facility will initially mature on October 30, 2015 and can be extended for an
additional year at our sole option. The base interest rate on the Credit Facility is LIBOR plus 100 basis points and an additional facility fee of 15 basis points. In addition, the
Credit Facility provides for a money market competitive bid option program that allows us to hold auctions to achieve lower pricing for short-term borrowings. The Credit Facility also
includes a $2.0 billion multi-currency tranche.   

              During
the year ended December 31, 2011, the Operating Partnership redeemed at par $542.5 million of senior unsecured notes with fixed rates ranging from 5.00% to 8.25%.
In addition, on November 10, 2011, we issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 2.8% with a maturity date of January 2017 and
$700.0 million of senior unsecured notes at a fixed interest rate of 4.13% with a maturity date of December 2021.   

              On
January 12, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of ten outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
2011 to March 2013. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on January 26, 2010 was approximately $2.3 billion, with a weighted average duration of
2.0 years and a weighted average coupon of 5.76%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $2.25 billion of senior
unsecured notes that closed on January 25, 2010. The senior notes offering was comprised of $400.0 million of 4.20% notes due 2015, $1.25 billion of 5.65% notes due 2020 and
$600.0 million of 6.75% notes due 2040. The weighted average duration of the notes offering was 14.4 years and the weighted average coupon was 5.69%. We recorded a $165.6 million
charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

              On
August 9, 2010, the Operating Partnership commenced a cash tender offer for any and all senior unsecured notes of three outstanding series with maturity dates ranging from
May 2013 to August 2014. The total principal amount of the notes accepted for purchase on August 17, 2010 was approximately $1.33 billion, with a weighted average duration
of 3.5 years and a weighted average coupon of 6.06%. The Operating Partnership purchased the tendered notes with cash on hand and the proceeds from an offering of $900.0 million of
4.375% senior unsecured notes that closed on August 16, 2010. The senior notes are due on March 1, 2021. We recorded a $185.1 million charge to earnings in the third quarter of
2010 as a result of the tender offer.   

     Secured Debt      

              Total secured indebtedness was $6.8 billion and $6.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we repaid $368.2 million in mortgage loans with a weighted average interest rate of 6.64%, unencumbering six properties.   

As
a result of the acquisition of additional interest in King of Prussia in August 2011 as further discussed in Note 4, we now own a controlling interest in this property
and, accordingly, we consolidated the property as of the acquisition date, including the property's $160.1 million mortgage debt.   

  123  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

              As
discussed in Note 4, on December 31, 2011, we consolidated six properties we received as a distribution from a joint venture of its interests in a portfolio of
properties. Four of these properties are encumbered by mortgages totaling $459.0 million.   

     Debt Maturity and Other      

Our scheduled principal repayments on indebtedness as of December 31, 2011 are as follows:   

Our
cash paid for interest in each period, net of any amounts capitalized, was as follows:   

Derivative Financial Instruments      

              Our exposure to market risk due to changes in interest rates primarily relates to our long-term debt obligations. We manage
exposure to interest rate market risk through our risk management strategy by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of variable rate debt. We are
also exposed to foreign currency risk on financings of certain foreign operations. Our intent is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses on the
derivative contracts hedging these exposures. We do not enter into either interest rate protection or foreign currency rate protection agreements for speculative purposes.   

              We
may enter into treasury lock agreements as part of an anticipated debt issuance. If the anticipated transaction does not occur, the cost is charged to consolidated net income. Upon
completion of the debt issuance, the cost of these instruments is recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized to interest expense over the life of the debt
agreement.   

              The
fair value of our interest rate swap agreements is a net liability balance of $10.0 million and $19.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
is included in other liabilities and accrued dividends. The interest rate cap agreements were of nominal value at December 31, 2011 and 2010 and we generally do not apply hedge accounting to
these arrangements. In addition, the unamortized loss of our treasury locks and terminated hedges recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was $89.7 million as of
December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, our outstanding LIBOR based derivative contracts consisted of:  

interest rate cap protection agreements with a notional amount of $381.3 million which mature in July 2013 and June
2014, and   
           fixed rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $485.8 million which have a weighted average fixed pay rate of
2.52% and a weighted average variable receive rate of 0.58%.    
 
  124  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    8.    Indebtedness and Derivative Financial Instruments (Continued)    

              Within
the next year, we expect to reclassify to earnings approximately $21.2 million of losses related to active and terminated interest rate swaps from the current balance held
in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The amount of ineffectiveness relating to cash flow hedges recognized in income during the periods presented was not significant.   

              Our
joint ventures may also enter into interest rate swaps or caps, which are recorded at fair value on the joint venture balance sheets. Included in our accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is our share of the joint ventures' accumulated derivative losses of $14.0 million and $20.9 million, respectively.   

Fair Value of Financial Instruments      

              The carrying value of our variable-rate mortgages and other loans approximates their fair values. We estimate the fair
values of consolidated fixed-rate mortgages using cash flows discounted at current borrowing rates and other indebtedness using cash flows discounted at current market rates. We estimate
the fair values of consolidated fixed-rate unsecured notes using quoted market prices, or, if no quoted market prices are available, we use quoted market prices for securities with similar
terms and maturities. The book value of our consolidated fixed-rate mortgages and other indebtedness was $15.9 billion and $14.8 billion as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. The fair values of these financial instruments and the related discount rate assumptions as of December 31 are summarized as follows:   

9.    Rentals under Operating Leases     

Future minimum rentals to be received under non-cancelable tenant operating leases for each of the next five years and thereafter, excluding tenant reimbursements of
operating expenses and percentage rent based on tenant sales volume as of December 31, 2011 are as follows:   

Approximately
0.6% of future minimum rents to be received are attributable to leases with an affiliate of a limited partner in the Operating Partnership.   

    10.    Equity     

Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify excess common stock into one or more additional classes and series of capital stock, to establish the number of shares in each
class
or series and to fix the preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends, and qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of such class or
series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of additional classes or series of capital stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
control of Simon   

  125  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

  Property
without further action of the stockholders. The ability to issue additional classes or series of capital stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other
corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.   

              Holders
of our common stock are entitled to one vote for each share held of record on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, other than for the election of directors. The
holders of our Class B common stock have the right to elect up to four members of the Board of Directors. All 8,000 outstanding shares of the Class B common stock are subject to two
voting trusts as to which Herbert Simon and David Simon are the trustees. Shares of Class B common stock convert automatically into an equal number of shares of common stock upon the occurrence
of certain events and can be converted into shares of common stock at the option of the holders.   

     Common Stock Issuances      

              In 2011, we issued 584,432 shares of common stock to 31 limited partners in exchange for an equal number of units.   

              We
issued 324,720 shares of common stock related to employee and director stock options exercised during 2011. We used the net proceeds from the option exercises of approximately
$9.6 million to acquire additional units. The Operating Partnership used the net proceeds for general business purposes.   

              On
December 9, 2011, the Operating Partnership issued 73,428 units in connection with the acquisition of a 50% interest in two development properties as discussed in
Note 3.   

    Temporary Equity     

              We classify as temporary equity those securities for which there is the possibility that we could be required to redeem the security
for cash irrespective of the probability of such a possibility. As a result, we classify one series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership and noncontrolling redeemable interests in
properties in temporary equity. Each of these securities is discussed further below.   

                 Limited Partners' Preferred Interest in the Operating Partnership and Noncontrolling Redeemable Interests in Properties.        The following table
summarizes the preferred units of the Operating Partnership and the amount of the noncontrolling redeemable interests in properties as of December 31. The redemption features the preferred
units of the Operating Partnership contain provisions which could require us to settle the redemption in cash. As a result, this series of preferred units in the Operating Partnership remains
classified outside permanent equity. The remaining interest in a property or portfolio of properties which are redeemable at the option of the holder or in circumstances that may be outside our
control, are accounted for as temporary equity. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is adjusted to the redemption amount assuming the instrument is redeemable at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the redemption value of the underlying noncontrolling interest are recorded within accumulated deficit. There are no noncontrolling interests redeemable at amounts in excess of fair value.   

126  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

                 7.50% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.        This series of preferred units accrues cumulative quarterly
distributions at a rate of $7.50 annually.
The Operating Partnership may redeem the preferred units on or after
November 10, 2013, unless there is the occurrence of certain tax triggering events such as death of the initial holder, or the transfer of any units to any person or entity other than the
persons or entities entitled to the benefits of the original holder. The redemption price is the liquidation value ($100.00 per preferred unit) plus accrued and unpaid distributions, payable either in
cash or fully registered shares of our common stock at our election. In the event of the death of a holder of the preferred units, the occurrence of certain tax triggering events applicable to the
holder, or on or after November 10, 2006, the holder may require the Operating Partnership to redeem the preferred units at the same redemption price payable at the option of the Operating
Partnership in either cash or shares of common stock.   

    Permanent Equity     

                 Preferred Stock.        Dividends on all series of preferred stock are calculated based upon the preferred
stock's preferred return multiplied by the
preferred stock's corresponding liquidation value. The Operating Partnership pays preferred distributions to us equal to the dividends we pay on the preferred stock issued.   

Series J 8 3 / 8 % Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock.        Dividends accrue
quarterly at an annual rate of 8 3 / 8 % per
share. We can redeem this series, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2027 at a redemption price of $50.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. This preferred stock was
issued at a premium of $7.5 million. The unamortized premium included in the carrying value of the preferred stock at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $5.2 million and
$5.5 million, respectively.   

    Other Equity Activity     

                 Notes Receivable from Former CPI Stockholders.        Notes receivable of $15.8 million from stockholders
of an entity we acquired in 1998 are
reflected as a deduction from capital in excess of par value in the consolidated statements of equity in the accompanying financial statements. The notes do not bear interest and become due at the
time the underlying shares are sold.   

The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.        This plan, or the 1998 plan, provides for the grant
of equity-based awards in the form of options
to purchase shares, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock grants and performance unit awards. Options may be granted which are qualified as "incentive stock options" within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code and options which are not so qualified. An aggregate of 11,300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1998 plan.
Additionally, the partnership agreement requires us to sell shares of common stock to the Operating Partnership, at fair value, sufficient to satisfy the exercising of any stock options, and for us to
purchase units for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares. Annual stock incentive programs were approved each year from 2001 until 2009 when no program was established.   

                 Administration.        The 1998 plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors,
or the Committee. The Committee determines
which eligible individuals may participate and the type, extent and terms of the awards to be granted to them. In addition, the Committee interprets the 1998 plan and makes all other determinations
deemed advisable for its administration. Options granted to employees become exercisable over the period determined by the Committee. The exercise price of an employee option may not be less than the
fair market value of the shares on the date of grant. Employee options generally vest over a three-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. Since 2001, we have not granted
any options to employees, except for a series of reload options we assumed as part of a prior business combination.   

                 Automatic Awards for Eligible Directors.        Directors who are not also our employees or employees of our
affiliates receive automatic awards under the
1998 plan. Until 2003, these awards took the form of stock options. Since then, the awards have been shares of restricted stock. Currently, each eligible director receives on the first day of the
first   

  127  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

10.    Equity (Continued)    

  calendar
month following his or her initial election an award of restricted stock with a value of $82,500 (pro-rated for partial years of service). Thereafter, as of the date of each
annual meeting of stockholders, eligible directors who are re-elected receive an award of restricted stock having a value of $82,500. In addition, eligible directors who serve as
chairpersons of the standing committees receive an additional annual award of restricted stock having a value of $10,000 (in the case of the Audit Committee) or $7,500 (in the case of other standing
committees). The Lead Independent Director also receives an annual restricted stock award having a value of $12,500. The restricted stock vests in full after one year.   

Once
vested, the delivery of the shares of restricted stock (including reinvested dividends) is deferred under our Director Deferred Compensation Plan until the director retires, dies
or becomes disabled or otherwise no longer serves as a director. The directors may vote and are entitled to receive dividends on the underlying shares; however, any dividends on the shares of
restricted stock must be reinvested in shares of common stock and held in the deferred compensation plan until the shares of restricted stock are delivered to the former director.   

In
addition to automatic awards, eligible directors may be granted discretionary awards under the 1998 plan.   

Stock Based Compensation      

On March 16, 2010, the Committee approved three long-term incentive performance programs, or the 2010 LTIP programs,
for certain senior executive officers. Awards under the 2010 LTIP programs take the form of LTIP units, a form of limited partnership interest issued by the Operating Partnership. During the
performance period, participants are entitled to receive on the LTIP units awarded to them distributions equal to 10% of the regular quarterly distributions paid on a unit of the Operating
Partnership. As a result, we account for these LTIP units as participating securities under the two-class method of computing earnings per share. Awarded LTIP units will be considered
earned, in whole or in part, depending upon the extent to which the applicable total shareholder return, or TSR, benchmarks, as defined, are achieved during the performance period and, once earned,
will become the equivalent of units after a two year service-based vesting period, beginning after the end of the performance period. Awarded LTIP units not earned are forfeited.   

              The
2010 LTIP programs have one, two and three year performance periods, which end on December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. During July 2011, the Committee
approved a three-year long-term incentive performance program, or the 2011-2013 LTIP program, and awarded LTIP units to certain senior executive officers. The
2011-2013 LTIP program has a three year performance period ending on December 31, 2013. After the end of each performance period, any earned LTIP units will then be subject to
service-based vesting over a period of two years. One-half of the earned LTIP units will vest on January 1 of each of the second and third years following the end of the applicable
performance period, subject to the participant maintaining employment with us through those dates.   

              The
2010 LTIP program awards have an aggregate grant date fair value, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, of $7.2 million for the one-year program,
$14.8 million for the two-year program and $23.0 million for the three-year program. The 2011-2013 LTIP program awards have an aggregate grant date
fair value of $35.0 million, adjusted for estimated forfeitures. Grant date fair values were estimated based upon the results of a Monte Carlo model, and the resulting expense will be recorded
regardless of whether the TSR benchmarks are achieved. The grant date fair values are being amortized into expense over the period from the grant date to the date at which the awards, if any, become
vested. In 2011, the Committee determined that 133,673 LTIP units were earned under the one-year 2010 LTIP program and, pursuant to the award agreements, will vest in two equal
installments in 2012 and 2013.   

              On
July 6, 2011, in connection with the execution of an employment agreement, the Committee granted David Simon, our Chairman and CEO, a retention award in the form of a new
series of 1,000,000 LTIP units. The retention award vests in one-third increments on July 5 th  of 2017, 2018 and 2019, subject to continued employment. The grant
date fair value of the retention award was $120.3 million which is being recognized as expense over the eight-year vesting period on a straight-line basis.   

  128  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

                 Restricted Stock.        The 1998 plan also provides for shares of restricted stock to be granted to certain
employees at no cost to those employees,
subject to achievement of certain financial and return-based performance measures established by the Committee related to the most recent year's performance. Once granted, the shares of restricted
stock then vest annually over a four-year period (25% each year) beginning on January 1 of each year. The cost of restricted stock grants, which is based upon the stock's fair
market value on the grant date, is charged to earnings ratably over the vesting period. Through December 31, 2011 a total of 5,226,247 shares of restricted stock, net of forfeitures, have been
awarded under the plan. Information regarding restricted stock awards is summarized in the following table for each of the years presented:   

Stock Options.        Information relating to employee options from December 31, 2008 through
December 31, 2011 is as follows:   

All
2,279 options outstanding at December 31, 2011, have an exercise price of $50.17 and a weighted average life of 2.17 years.   

              No
stock options were granted to any non-employee director and there were no stock options previously awarded to non-employee directors that were outstanding
from December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2011.   

              We
also maintain a tax-qualified retirement 401(k) savings plan and offer no other postretirement or post employment benefits to our employees.   

  129  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    10.    Equity (Continued)    

     Exchange Rights      

              Limited partners in the Operating Partnership have the right to exchange all or any portion of their units for shares of common stock
on a one-for-one basis or cash, as determined by the Board of Directors. The amount of cash to be paid if the exchange right is exercised and the cash option is selected will
be based on the trading price of our common stock at that time. At December 31, 2011, we had reserved 61,668,104 shares of common stock for possible issuance upon the exchange of units, stock
options, and Class B common stock and certain convertible preferred stock.   

    11.    Commitments and Contingencies     

Litigation      

              We are involved from time-to-time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our
business, including, but not limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that such
litigation, claims and administrative proceedings will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or our results of operations. We record a liability when a loss is considered
probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.   

Lease Commitments      

              As of December 31, 2011, a total of 32 of the consolidated properties are subject to ground leases. The termination dates of
these ground leases range from 2013 to 2090. These ground leases generally require us to make fixed annual rental payments, or a fixed annual rental plus a percentage rent component based upon the
revenues or total sales of the property. Some of these leases also include escalation clauses and renewal options. We incurred ground lease expense included in other expense as follows:   

Future
minimum lease payments due under these ground leases for years ending December 31, excluding applicable extension options, are as follows:   

Insurance      

              We maintain insurance coverage with third party carriers who provide a portion of the coverage for specific layers of potential losses
including commercial general liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on all of our properties in the United States. The initial portion of coverage not provided by third
party carriers is either insured through our wholly-owned captive insurance companies, Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd. and Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd., or other financial arrangements
controlled by us. The third party carrier has, in turn, agreed to provide evidence of coverage for this layer of losses under the terms and conditions of the carrier's policy. A similar   

  130  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

    11.    Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)    

  policy
written through our captive insurance entities also provides initial coverage for property insurance and certain windstorm risks at the properties located in coastal windstorm locations.   

              We
currently maintain insurance coverage against acts of terrorism on all of our properties in the United States on an "all risk" basis in the amount of up to $1 billion. The
current federal laws which provide this coverage are expected to operate through 2014. Despite the existence of this insurance coverage, any threatened or actual terrorist attacks where we operate
could adversely affect our property values, revenues, consumer traffic and tenant sales.   

     Guarantees of Indebtedness      

              Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by the joint venture property, which is
non-recourse to us. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Operating Partnership guaranteed joint venture related mortgage or other indebtedness of $30.2 million and
$60.7 million, respectively. Mortgages which are guaranteed by us are secured by the property of the joint venture and that property could be sold in order to satisfy the outstanding
obligation.   

     Concentration of Credit Risk      

              We are subject to risks incidental to the ownership and operation of commercial real estate. These risks include, among others, the
risks normally associated with changes in the general economic climate, trends in the retail industry, creditworthiness of tenants, competition for tenants and customers, changes in tax laws, interest
rate and foreign currency levels, the availability of financing, and potential liability under environmental and other laws. Our regional malls, Premium Outlets, The Mills, and community/lifestyle
centers rely heavily upon anchor tenants like most retail properties. Four retailers occupied 516 of the approximately 1,323 anchor stores in the properties as of December 31, 2011. An
affiliate of one of these retailers is a limited partner in the Operating Partnership. Further, all material operations are within the United States and no customer or tenant comprises more than 10%
of consolidated revenues.   

     Limited Life Partnerships      

              We are the controlling partner in several consolidated partnerships that have a limited life. We estimated the settlement values of
these noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 as approximately $140 million and $135 million, respectively. The settlement values are based on the estimated fair
values upon a hypothetical liquidation of the partnership interests and estimated yield maintenance or prepayment penalties associated with the payment to settle any underlying secured mortgage debt.   

    12.    Related Party Transactions     

Our management company provides management, insurance, and other services to Melvin Simon   Associates, Inc., a related party, and other non-owned properties.
Amounts for services provided by our management company and its affiliates to our unconsolidated joint ventures and other related parties were as follows:   

During
2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded interest income of $9.8 million, $9.9 million and $9.3 million respectively, and financing fee income of
$1.0 million, $0.9 million and $3.7 million, respectively, net of inter-entity   

  131  

Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries    

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

    (Dollars in thousands, except unit and per unit amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)    

12.    Related Party Transactions (Continued)    

  eliminations,
related to the loans that we have provided to Mills and SPG-FCM and lending financing services to those entities and the properties in which they hold an ownership interest.   

    13.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)     

Quarterly 2011 and 2010 data is summarized in the table below. Quarterly amounts may not equal annual amounts due to rounding.   

14.    Subsequent Events     

At December 31, 2011, we had a 49.0% ownership interest in GCI which owned 45 properties located in Italy. On January 9, 2012, we sold our entire ownership interest in
GCI
to our venture partner, Auchan S.A. The aggregate cash we received related to the sale of our interest in GCI was $378.0 million. We expect to record a gain on the sale in the first
quarter of 2012.   

  132  

QuickLinks    
  Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
  Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   
  Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets (Dollars in thousands, except share amounts)   
  Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Dollars in thousands)   
  Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share amounts and where indicated as in millions or billions)   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-13.1>
 10
 a2207375zf9_ex-131.pdf
 EX-13.1

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 11
 a2207375zex-21_1.htm
 EX-21.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 21.1            

List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property            

Subsidiary

Jurisdiction    

Simon Property Group, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

The Retail Property Trust  
     
  Massachusetts  

Simon Property Group (Illinois), L.P.   
     
  Illinois  

Simon Property Group (Texas), L.P.   
     
  Texas  

Shopping Center Associates  
     
  New York  

Simon Capital Limited Partnership  
     
  Delaware  

M.S. Management Associates, Inc.   
     
  Delaware  

Rosewood Indemnity, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

Marigold Indemnity, Ltd.   
     
  Delaware  

Bridgewood Insurance Company, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

Simon Business Network, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Brand Ventures, LLC  
     
  Indiana  

Simon Global Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

Simon Services, Inc.   
     
  Delaware  

Simon Property Group Administrative Services Partnership, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

SPGGC, LLC  
     
  Virginia  

Kravco Simon Investments, L.P.   
     
  Pennsylvania  

SPG ML Holdings, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates II, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Simon Management Associates, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

CPG Partners, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

Prime Retail, L.P.   
     
  Delaware  

SPG Mayflower, LLC  
     
  Delaware  

Omits names of subsidiaries that as of December 31, 2011 were not, in the aggregate, a "significant subsidiary."   

  133  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 21.1   
 
  List of Subsidiaries of Simon Property   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-21.1>
 12
 a2207375zf11_ex-211.pdf
 EX-21.1

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 13
 a2207375zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm            

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. of our report dated February 28, 2012 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, and our report dated February 28,
2012, with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, included in the 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders of Simon
Property Group, Inc.   

              Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries listed in Item 15. This schedule is the responsibility of Simon Property
Group, Inc.'s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date is February 28, 2012, the financial statement schedule referred
to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   

              We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:   

(1)    Registration
Statement (Form S-3 No. 333-157794) of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      (2)    Registration
Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-118427) of Simon Property Group, Inc;
      (3)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-101185) pertaining to the Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan;
      (4)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-82471) pertaining to the Simon Property Group and Adopting Entities Matching
Savings Plan; and
      (5)    Registration
Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-63919) pertaining to the Corporate Property Investors, Inc. and Corporate
Realty Consultants, Inc. Employee Share Purchase Plan;    

of
our report dated February 28, 2012 with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries and our report dated February 28, 2012, with
respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries, both incorporated by reference herein, and our report included in the
preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule of Simon Property Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Simon Property
Group, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2011.   

/s/    ERNST   YOUNG LLP   

Indianapolis, Indiana 
February 28, 2012   

  134  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.1>
 14
 a2207375zf13_ex-231.pdf
 EX-23.1

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 15
 a2207375zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities   Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I,
David Simon, certify that:   

              1.     I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;   

2.     Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

              3.     Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

4.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:   

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;   

              b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

              c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

              d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and   

5.     The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):   

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.   

Date: February 28, 2012  

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors and 
Chief Executive Officer  

135  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   
 
  Certification by the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.1>
 16
 a2207375zf15_ex-311.pdf
 EX-31.1

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 17
 a2207375zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities   Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

I,
Stephen E. Sterrett, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Simon Property Group, Inc.;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
for the registrant and have:

a.    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a.    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date: February 28, 2012  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

136  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   
 
  Certification by the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-31.2>
 18
 a2207375zf17_ex-312.pdf
 EX-31.2

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 19
 a2207375zex-32.htm
 EX-32

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32            

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

              In connection with the Annual Report of Simon Property Group, Inc. ("Simon Property"), on Form 10-K
for the period ending December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), each of the undersigned, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Simon Property.    

/s/ DAVID SIMON 

David Simon 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
and Chief Executive Officer 
February 28, 2012  

/s/ STEPHEN E. STERRETT 

Stephen E. Sterrett 
Senior Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
February 28, 2012  

137  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32   
 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 20
 a2207375zf19_ex-32.pdf
 EX-32

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 21
 spg-20111231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 22
 spg-20111231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.DEF>
 23
 spg-20111231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 24
 spg-20111231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.CAL>
 25
 spg-20111231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.PRE>
 26
 spg-20111231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

