<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150209_10-K_edgar_data_936468_0001193125-15-038681_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>13482157</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>643259</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3279530</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2104622</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4082854</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3068643</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>112</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-15-038681.hdr.sgml : 20150209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150209123942
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-15-038681
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000936468
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES & PARTS [3760]
		IRS NUMBER:				521893632
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MD
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11437
		FILM NUMBER:		15587546

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6801 ROCKLEDGE DR
		CITY:			BETHESDA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			20817
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3018976000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6801 ROCKLEDGE DRIVE
		CITY:			BETHESDA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			20817

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-15-038681.txt : 20150209

10-K
 1
 d808572d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES      SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K      ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   
  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014  
  Commission file number 1-11437  
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION   
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)      

Maryland  

52-1893632   
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of 
 incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
 Identification No.)   
    6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817-1877 (301/897-6000)   
 (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)  
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class  

Name of each exchange on which registered   

Common Stock, $1 par value 

New York Stock Exchange  
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes        No        Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes        No
       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes        No      
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No        Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large accelerated filer      
     
       Accelerated filer           
     
 Non-accelerated filer           
     
 Smaller reporting company      
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes        No      
 The aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant computed by reference to the last
sales price of such stock, as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, which was June 27, 2014, was approximately $51.3 billion.  
 There were 315,583,849 shares of our common stock, $1 par value per share, outstanding as of January 23, 2015.  
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   
 Portions of Lockheed Martin Corporation s 2015 Definitive Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

Table of Contents  

   Lockheed Martin Corporation   
  Form 10-K      For the Year
Ended December 31, 2014        Table of Contents   

PART I  

Page    

ITEM 1.  
  
  Business  

3 

ITEM 1A.  
  
  Risk Factors  

9 

ITEM 1B.  
  
  Unresolved Staff Comments  

18 

ITEM 2.  
  
  Properties  

18 

ITEM 3.  
  
  Legal Proceedings  

19 

ITEM 4.  
  
  Mine Safety Disclosures  

19 

ITEM 4(a).  
  
  Executive Officers of the Registrant  

20 

PART II   

ITEM 5.  
  
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

22 

ITEM 6.  
  
  Selected Financial Data  

24 

ITEM 7.  
  
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

25 

ITEM 7A.  
  
  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

56 

ITEM 8.  
  
  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

58 

ITEM 9.  
  
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

91 

ITEM 9A.  
  
  Controls and Procedures  

91 

ITEM 9B.  
  
  Other Information  

93 

PART III   

ITEM 10.  
  
  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

94 

ITEM 11.  
  
  Executive Compensation  

94 

ITEM 12.  
  
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

95 

ITEM 13.  
  
  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  

95 

ITEM 14.  
  
  Principal Accountant Fees and Services  

95 

PART IV   

ITEM 15.  
  
  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

96 

SIGNATURES    

100 

Table of Contents  

   PART I       

ITEM 1.  
  Business.        General   
 We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture,
integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics and information services. We serve both U.S. and international customers
with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2014, 79% of our $45.6 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime
contractor or as a subcontractor (including 59% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 20% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other
customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cyber security.  
 We operate in an environment characterized by both increasing complexity in global security and continuing economic pressures
in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing security capability quickly
into the hands of our U.S. and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio domestically in a disciplined manner with a focus on
adjacent markets close to our core capabilities, as well as growing our international sales. We continue to focus on affordability initiatives. We also expect to continue to invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our
customers, and invest in our people so that we have the technical skills necessary to succeed without limiting our ability to return cash to our investors in the form of dividends and share repurchases.  
 We operate in five business segments: Aeronautics, Information Systems   Global Solutions (IS GS), Missiles and
Fire Control (MFC), Mission Systems and Training (MST) and Space Systems. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered.  
  Aeronautics   
 In 2014, our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales of $14.9 billion, which represented 32% of our total
consolidated net sales. Aeronautics  customers include the military services and various other government agencies of the U.S. and other countries. In 2014, U.S. Government customers accounted for 72% and international customers accounted for
28% of Aeronautics  net sales. Net sales from Aeronautics  combat aircraft products and services represented 23% of our total consolidated net sales in 2014 and 21% of our total consolidated net sales in each of 2013 and 2012.  
 Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade of
advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies. Aeronautics  major programs include:      

F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter   international multi-role, multi-variant, fifth generation stealth fighter;     

C-130 Hercules   international tactical airlifter;     

F-16 Fighting Falcon   low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter;     

F-22 Raptor   air dominance and multi-mission fifth generation stealth fighter; and     

C-5M Super Galaxy   strategic airlifter.     
 The F-35 program is our largest, generating 17% of our total consolidated net sales, as well as 52% of Aeronautics  net
sales in 2014. The F-35 program consists of a development contract and multiple production and sustainment activities. The development contract is being performed concurrently with the production contracts. Concurrent performance of development and
production contracts is used for complex programs to test aircraft, shorten the time to field systems and achieve overall cost savings. We expect the development portion of the F-35 program will be substantially complete in 2017, with less
significant efforts continuing into 2019. Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S. Government s current inventory objective of 2,443 aircraft for the Air Force, Marine Corps and Navy; commitments from our
eight international partners and three international customers; as well as expressions of interest from other countries. During 2014, we delivered 36 aircraft to our U.S. and international partners, resulting in total deliveries of 109
 
      3  

Table of Contents  

production aircraft as of December 31, 2014. We have 100 production aircraft in backlog as of December 31, 2014, including orders from our international partners. For additional
information on the F-35 program, see  Status of the F-35 Program  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
 Aeronautics produces and provides support and sustainment services for the C-130J Super Hercules, as well as upgrades and
support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet. We delivered 24 C-130J aircraft in 2014, including 11 to international customers, and our backlog extends into 2016. We currently have advanced funding from the U.S. Government for
additional C-130J aircraft not currently in backlog.    Aeronautics currently produces F-16 aircraft for international
customers. Aeronautics also provides service-life extension, modernization and other upgrade programs for our customers  F-16 aircraft. We delivered 17 F-16 aircraft in 2014, and our backlog extends into 2017.  
 While production and deliveries of F-22 aircraft were completed in 2012, Aeronautics continues to provide modernization and
sustainment activities for the U.S. Air Force s F-22 aircraft fleet. The modernization program comprises upgrading existing systems requirements, developing new systems requirements, adding capabilities and enhancing the performance of the
weapon systems. The sustainment program consists of sustaining the weapon systems of the F-22 fleet, providing training systems, customer support, integrated support planning, supply chain management, aircraft modifications and heavy maintenance,
systems engineering and support products.    Aeronautics provides sustainment services for the existing U.S. Air Force C-5
Galaxy fleet and modernization activities to convert 49 C-5 Galaxy aircraft to the C-5M Super Galaxy configuration. These modernization activities include the installation of new engines, landing gear and systems and other improvements that enable a
shorter takeoff, a higher climb rate, an increased cargo load and longer flight range. As of December 31, 2014, we had delivered 20 C-5M aircraft under these modernization activities, including seven C-5M aircraft delivered in 2014.  
 In addition to the above aircraft programs, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs incorporating innovative
design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, also known as Skunk Works   , is focused on future systems, including unmanned aerial systems and
next generation capabilities for advanced strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion in our existing aircraft. We also are involved in
numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness and we continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design, development and production.
    Information Systems   Global Solutions   
 In 2014, our IS GS business segment generated net sales of $7.8 billion, which represented 17% of our total consolidated
net sales. IS GS  customers include the various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, military services, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2014, U.S. Government customers accounted for 89%, international customers
accounted for 8% and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 3% of IS GS  net sales. IS GS has been impacted by the continued downturn in certain federal agencies  information technology budgets and increased
re-competition on existing contracts coupled with the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price.  
 IS GS provides advanced technology systems and expertise, integrated information technology solutions and management
services across a broad spectrum of applications for civil, defense, intelligence and other government customers. In addition, IS GS supports the needs of customers in data analytics, cyber security, air traffic management and energy demand
management. IS GS provides network-enabled situational awareness, delivers communications and command and control capability through complex mission solutions for defense applications, and integrates complex global systems to help our customers
gather, analyze and securely distribute critical intelligence data. Also, IS GS is responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. While IS GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts
as compared to our other business segments, this business segment s major programs include:      

The Hanford Mission Support contract, a program to provide infrastructure and site support services to the Department of Energy.

The En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) contract, a program to replace the Federal Aviation Administration s infrastructure with a modern
automation environment that includes new functions and capabilities.     
      4  

Table of Contents  

The Command, Control, Battle Management and Communications (C2BMC) contract, a program to increase the integration of the Ballistic Missile Defense
System for the U.S. Government.     

The National Science Foundation Antarctic Support program, which manages sites and equipment to enable universities, research institutions and
federal agencies to conduct scientific research in the Antarctic.        Missiles and Fire Control   
 In 2014, our MFC business segment generated net sales of $7.7 billion, which represented 17% of our total consolidated net
sales. MFC s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Army, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2014, U.S. Government customers accounted for 68%
and international customers accounted for 32% of MFC s net sales.    MFC provides air and missile defense systems;
tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon systems; logistics and other technical services; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; and manned and unmanned ground
vehicles. MFC s major programs include:      

The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced
defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept and eliminate incoming airborne threats using kinetic energy. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers
designed to engage targets both within and outside of the Earth s atmosphere.     

The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM) and Javelin tactical missile programs. MLRS is a
highly mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used on
rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps and international customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile launched from fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international
customers. Javelin is a shoulder-fired anti-armor rocket system, which is produced for the U.S. Army, Marine Corps and international customers.     

The Apache, Sniper    and Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night (LANTIRN   ) fire control systems programs. The Apache fire control system provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and international customers. Sniper    is a targeting system for several fixed-wing aircraft and LANTIRN    is a combined navigation and targeting system for several fixed-wing
aircraft. Both Sniper    and LANTIRN    are produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers.     

MFC s Technical Services business provides a comprehensive portfolio of technical and sustainment services to enhance our customers 
mission success, with core markets in engineering services; global aviation solutions; command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) product support; counter threat services; and education and
sustainment services. MFC technical services has been impacted by market pressures such as lower in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on existing contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price.

The Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services program, which provides logistics support services to the special operations
forces of the U.S. military.        Mission Systems and Training   
 In 2014, our MST business segment generated net sales of $7.1 billion, which represented 16% of our total consolidated net
sales. MST s customers include the military services, principally the U.S. Navy, and various government agencies of the U.S. and other countries, as well as commercial and other customers. In 2014, U.S. Government customers accounted for 75%,
international customers accounted for 24% and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 1% of MST s net sales.  
 MST provides ship and submarine mission and combat systems; mission systems and sensors for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft;
sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS); simulation and training services; and unmanned systems and technologies. MST s major programs include:  

The Aegis Combat System serves as a fleet ballistic missile defense system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and is also a sea and
land-based element of the U.S. missile defense system.     

The LCS, a surface combatant ship for the U.S. Navy designed to operate in shallow waters and the open ocean.     
      5  

Table of Contents  

MH-60 maritime helicopter mission systems and sensors, including the digital cockpit and weapons, for the U.S. Navy and international customers.

The TPQ-53 Radar System, a sensor that quickly locates and neutralizes mortar and rocket threats, produced for the U.S. Army and international
customers.     

The Advanced Hawkeye Radar System, an airborne early warning radar, which MST provides for the E2-C/E2-D aircraft produced for the U.S. Navy and
international customers.     

The Space Fence system, an advanced ground-based radar system for the U.S. Air Force designed to enhance the way objects are tracked in space and
increase the ability to prevent space-based collisions.        Space Systems   
 In 2014, our Space Systems business segment generated net sales of $8.1 billion, which represented 18% of our total
consolidated net sales. Space Systems  customers include various government agencies of the U.S. and commercial customers. In 2014, U.S. Government customers accounted for 97%, international customers accounted for 1% and U.S. commercial and
other customers accounted for 2% of Space Systems  net sales. Net sales from Space Systems  satellite products and services represented 12% of our total consolidated net sales in each of 2014, 2013 and 2012.  
 Space Systems is engaged in the research and development, design, engineering and production of satellites, strategic and
defensive missile systems and space transportation systems. Space Systems is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space Systems  major programs include:  

The Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS), which provides the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile launch detection and tracking
capabilities.     

The Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, the next generation of highly secure communications satellites for the U.S. Air Force.

Global Positioning System (GPS) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force.     

The Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite R-Series (GOES-R), which is the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association s next
generation of meteorological satellites.     

The Mobile User Objective System (MUOS), a next-generation narrow-band satellite communication system for the U.S. Navy.     

The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile, a program with the U.S. Navy for the only submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic missile
currently in production in the U.S.     

The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion), a spacecraft for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilizing new technology
for human exploration missions beyond low earth orbit. On December 5, 2014, Orion successfully completed its first unmanned test flight.     
 Operating profit for our Space Systems business segment includes our share of earnings for our 50% ownership interest in
United Launch Alliance (ULA).     Financial and Other Business Segment Information   
 For additional information regarding our business segments, including comparative segment net sales, operating profit and
related financial information for 2014, 2013 and 2012, see  Business Segment Results of Operations  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and  Note 3   Information on
Business Segments  of our consolidated financial statements.     Competition   
 Our broad portfolio of products and services competes both domestically and internationally against the products and services
of other large aerospace, defense and information technology companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors, particularly in certain of our services businesses. We often form teams with our competitors in efforts to provide our customers with
the best mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage expanded competition, such as information technology contracts where there may be a wide range of small to
large contractors bidding on procurements. Additionally, information technology procurements are increasingly focusing on price over other factors of competition. Principal factors of competition include the value of our products and services to the
customer; technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement complex, integrated system architectures; total cost of ownership; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements; and our ability to
provide timely solutions.  
      6  

Table of Contents  

  The competition for international sales is generally subject to U.S. Government
stipulations (e.g., export restrictions, market access, technology transfer, industrial cooperation and contracting practices). We may compete against U.S. and non-U.S. companies (or teams) for contract awards by international governments.
International competitions also may be subject to different laws or contracting practices of international governments that may affect how we structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government s
relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs are also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation
regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have entered into foreign offset agreements as part of securing some international business. For more information concerning offset agreements, see  Contractual Commitments and
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
  Patents   
 We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and international patents related to the products and services we
provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also license intellectual property to and from third parties. The U.S. Government has licenses in our patents that are developed in performance of government contracts and
it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by our patents for government purposes. Unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property
rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect
on our business taken as a whole.     Raw Materials and Seasonality   
 Certain of our products require relatively scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw
materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining a stock of key materials in inventory.  
 Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space Systems programs. Long-term
agreements have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in composite materials used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. Aluminum lithium, which we use for F-16 aircraft
structural components, is currently only available from limited sources. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may
negatively affect the price and availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key
materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs or reduced operating profits.  
 No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our sales
between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the availability of government funding, product deliveries and customer acceptance.  
  Government Contracts and Regulations   
 Our business is heavily regulated. We contract with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all branches of
the U.S. military, the departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Transportation and Energy, the U.S. Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, NASA, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Veterans Affairs. Similar government authorities exist in other countries and regulate our international efforts.  
 We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S.
Government and other contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things:      

require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain types of contract negotiations;     

impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;     

impose acquisition regulations, which may change or be replaced over time, that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our
right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts;     
      7  

Table of Contents  

require specific security controls to protect DoD controlled unclassified technical information and restrict the use and dissemination of
information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data; and     

require the review and approval of contractor business systems, defined in the regulations as: (i) Accounting System; (ii) Estimating
System; (iii) Earned Value Management System, for managing cost and schedule performance on certain complex programs; (iv) Purchasing System; (v) Material Management and Accounting System, for planning, controlling and accounting for
the acquisition, use, issuing and disposition of material; and (vi) Property Management System.     
 The U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default
based on our performance. If a contract is terminated for convenience, we generally are protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contract and profit on those costs. If a contract is terminated for default, we
generally are entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the U.S. Government; however, the U.S. Government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement costs and could assess other special penalties. For
more information regarding the U.S. Government s right to terminate our contracts, see Item 1A   Risk Factors. For more information regarding government contracting laws and regulations, see Item 1A   Risk Factors as well as
 Critical Accounting Policies   Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
 A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of
these classified contracts are included in our consolidated financial statements. The business risks associated with classified contracts historically have not differed materially from those of our other U.S. Government contracts. Our internal
controls addressing the financial reporting of classified contracts are consistent with our internal controls for our non-classified contracts.  
 Our operations are subject to and affected by various federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and
regulations regarding the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise regulating the protection of the environment. While the extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated, the costs of environmental
compliance have not had, and we do not expect that these costs will have, a material adverse effect on our earnings, financial position and cash flow, primarily because most of our environmental costs are allowable in establishing the price of our
products and services under our contracts with the U.S. Government. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see
 Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental Matters  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and  Note 12   Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies  of
our consolidated financial statements. See also the discussion of environmental matters within Section 1A   Risk Factors.  
  Backlog   
 At December 31, 2014, our backlog was $80.5 billion compared with $82.6 billion at December 31, 2013. Backlog is
converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made. Approximately $32.2 billion, or 40%, of our backlog at December 31, 2014 is expected to be converted into sales in 2015.  
 Our backlog includes both funded (firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and
appropriated by the customer   Congress, in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential orders under
indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity agreements in our backlog. If any of our contracts with firm orders were to be terminated, our backlog would be reduced by the expected value of the unfilled orders of such contracts. Funded backlog was $56.5
billion at December 31, 2014, as compared to $55.0 billion at December 31, 2013. For backlog related to each of our business segments, see  Business Segment Results of Operations  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.     Research and Development   
 We conduct research and development activities under customer-sponsored contracts and with our own independent research and
development funds. Our independent research and development costs include basic research, applied research, development, systems and other concept formulation studies. Generally, these costs are allocated among all contracts and programs in progress
under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Costs we incur under customer-sponsored research  
      8  

Table of Contents  

and development programs pursuant to contracts are included in net sales and cost of sales. Under certain arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of the
unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Independent research and development costs charged to cost of sales were $751 million in 2014, $697 million in 2013 and $616 million in 2012. See  Research and development and similar
costs  in  Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies  of our consolidated financial statements.     Employees   
 At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 112,000 employees, about 95% of whom were located in the U.S. Approximately
15% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring
agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. Management considers employee relations to be good.     Available
Information     We are a Maryland corporation and were formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation
and Martin Marietta Corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. Our telephone number is (301) 897-6000 and our website home page on the Internet is  www.lockheedmartin.com .
We make our website content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K).  
 Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in this manner and you should review that information.  
 Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements for our annual
stockholders  meetings and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website,  www.lockheedmartin.com/investor , as soon as reasonably practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to the
SEC. In addition, copies of our annual report will be made available, free of charge, upon written request. The SEC also maintains a website at  www.sec.gov  that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC
registrants, including Lockheed Martin Corporation.     Forward-Looking Statements   
 This Form 10-K contains statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, and are based on our current expectations and assumptions. The words  believe,   estimate,   anticipate,   project,   intend, 
 expect,   plan,   outlook,   scheduled,   forecast  and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to risks and uncertainties.    Statements and assumptions with respect to future sales, income and cash flows,
program performance, the outcome of litigation, anticipated pension cost and funding, environmental remediation cost estimates and planned acquisitions or dispositions of assets or the anticipated consequences are examples of forward-looking
statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in the following section, could affect our forward-looking statements and actual performance.  
 Our actual financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections. Given
these uncertainties, forward-looking statements should not be relied on in making investment decisions. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing. Except where required by applicable law, we
expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to reflect subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The
forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws.      

ITEM 1A.  
  Risk Factors.       An investment in our common stock or debt securities
involves risks and uncertainties. We seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. You should carefully consider the following factors, in addition to the other
information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase our common stock or debt securities.  
      9  

Table of Contents  

   We depend heavily on contracts with the U.S. Government.   
 We derived 79% of our consolidated net sales from the U.S. Government in 2014, including 59% from the Department of Defense.
We expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under U.S. Government contracts. Those contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a
fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years. Consequently, contracts are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess
of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless and until additional funds are obligated to the contract.  
 The programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the
budget and appropriation process. Concerns about increased deficit spending, along with ongoing economic challenges, continue to place pressure on U.S. Government budgets. While we believe that our programs are well aligned with national defense and
other priorities, shifts in the U.S. and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments and other factors
may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs.    As discussed within the
 Industry Considerations  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the U.S. Government continues to face significant deficit reduction pressures and it is likely that discretionary
spending by the U.S. Government will remain constrained for a number of years. Under such conditions, large or complex programs, which consist of multiple contracts and phases, are potentially subject to increased scrutiny. Our largest program, the
F-35, represented 17% of our total consolidated net sales in 2014 and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. A decision to cut spending or reduce planned orders could have an adverse impact on our results of
operations. For more information regarding the F-35 program, see  Status of the F-35 Program  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  
 Based upon our diverse range of defense, homeland security and information technology products and services, we believe that
this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business. However, termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial
performance. We could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other reasons. Potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or
additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. While we would expect to compete and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful or the replacement programs
may be funded at lower levels.    Generally, we expect that the impact of budget reductions on our operating results will
lag in certain of our businesses with longer cycles such as our Aeronautics and Space Systems business segments and in our products businesses within our Missiles and Fire Control (MFC) and Mission Systems and Training (MST) business segments due to
our production contract backlog. However, our businesses with smaller, short-term contracts are the most susceptible to the impacts of budget reductions, such as our Information Systems   Global Solutions (IS GS) business segment and
certain services businesses within our MFC and MST business segments. We have also experienced increased market pressures in these services businesses including lower in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on
existing contracts coupled with the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. Additionally, our services businesses across most of our business segments have experienced lower
volume due to improved product field performance that require less service support.    On December 16, 2014, the U.S.
Government passed the government fiscal year (GFY) 2015 omnibus spending bill to finance most federal activities through September 30, 2015, the end of its current fiscal year, after operating under continuing resolution temporary funding
measures from October 1, 2014 to December 16, 2014. Currently, the Department of Homeland Security remains funded through a continuing resolution until February 27, 2015. The omnibus spending bill provides for a revised defense
spending limit of $585 billion for GFY 2015 and eliminates much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procuring products and services under the continuing resolution. Under continuing resolutions, partial-year funding is available at prior year
levels, subject to certain restrictions, but new spending initiatives are not authorized. In years when the U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, government operations typically are funded through a
continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in contract awards due
to lack of funding. Historically, this has not had a material effect on our business. Should a continuing resolution be used to fund U.S. Government Operations after GFY 2015 or decisions regarding sequestration remain pending,
 
      10  

Table of Contents  

it may cause additional government contract awards to be delayed, canceled or funded at lower levels and cause our results of operations to vary between periods. In some circumstances, we may
continue to work without funding and use our funds in order to meet our customer s desired delivery dates for products or services. Such funds could be at risk if the U.S. Government does not provide authorization and additional funding to our
programs.     We are subject to a number of procurement laws and regulations. Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected
if we fail to comply with these laws.     We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the
award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and impose certain risks and costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and
regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, suspension or debarment from bidding on or being awarded contracts, loss of our ability to export products or services and
civil or criminal investigations or proceedings.    In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights
that are different from those typically found in commercial transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on our performance. Upon
termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment
for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss.    Upon termination for convenience of a
cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee
recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. We attempt to ensure that adequate funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those
associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. As funds are typically appropriated on a fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of
continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the government to terminate them for convenience. Under such circumstances, the U.S. Government could
assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding.    A termination arising out of our default may expose us
to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a
prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor. In the case of termination for default, the U.S. Government could make claims to reduce the contract value or recover its procurement
costs and could assess other special penalties. However, under such circumstances we have rights and remedial actions under laws and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  
 In addition, certain of our U.S. Government contracts span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S.
Government generally has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. However, the U.S. Government may exercise option periods, even for contracts for which it is expected that our costs may
exceed the contract price or ceiling.    U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense
Contract Management Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor s performance under its contracts, its cost structure, its business systems and
compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. We have unaudited and/or unsettled incurred cost claims related to past years, which places risk on our ability to issue
final billings on contracts for which authorized and appropriated funds may be expiring.    Certain deficiencies identified
during government audits of contractor business systems may result in the government withholding payments on our billings. Such deficiencies have not impacted our internal control over financial reporting. Withholding payments on billings are capped
at 5% of billings when deficiencies impact a single business system and 10% when deficiencies impact multiple systems. Such withholdings are typically reduced to 2% after the contractor s corrective action plan has been accepted and progress to
implement the corrective actions has been demonstrated and are withdrawn upon satisfactory completion and verification of the corrective action plan.  
      11  

Table of Contents  

  If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be
subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or terminations, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, penalties, fines and suspension or
prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct
business.     Our profitability and cash flow may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, our ability to
control costs and evolving U.S. Government procurement policies.     Our profitability and cash flow may vary materially
depending on the types of long-term government contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives and the
stage of performance at which the right to receive fees is determined, particularly under award and incentive-fee contracts.  
 Our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and reward profiles as a program
matures. Contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive-fee, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts. Contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically cost-reimbursable. Under
cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. In these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees and the program could be cancelled if
cost, schedule or technical performance issues arise.    Other contracts in backlog are for the transition from development
to production (e.g., low-rate initial production (LRIP) contracts), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. These generally are cost-reimbursable or
fixed-price incentive-fee contracts. Under a fixed-price incentive-fee contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share arrangement, which affects profitability. Generally, if our costs exceed
the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated.  
 There are also contracts for production as well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the
challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. These contracts are mainly fixed-price, although some operations and maintenance contracts are time-and-materials type. Under
fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price regardless of the actual costs we incur. We have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for
certain expenses.    The failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees or
losses and affect our financial performance in that period. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected, particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to
our customers. Cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards.  
 The U.S. Government is currently pursuing and implementing policies that could negatively impact our profitability. Changes in
procurement policy favoring more incentive-based fee arrangements, different award fee criteria or government contract negotiation offers that indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. Our customers are
subject to pressures that may result in a change in contract types referenced above earlier in a program s maturity than is traditional. An example of this is the use of fixed-price incentive-fee contracts for recent LRIP contracts on the F-35
program while the development contract is being performed concurrently. Our customers also may pursue non- traditional contract provisions in negotiation of contracts. For example, changes resulting from the F-35 development contract may need to be
implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency, which may require us to pay for a portion of the concurrency costs. An example of customer budget pressures includes the U.S. Government requiring that bid and proposal
costs be included in general and administrative costs, rather than charged directly to contracts in certain circumstances.  
 Other policies could negatively impact our working capital and cash flow. For example, the government has expressed a
preference for requiring progress payments rather than performance based payments on new fixed-price contracts, which if implemented, delays our ability to recover a significant amount of costs incurred on a contract and thus affects the timing of
our cash flows.  
      12  

Table of Contents  

   Increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more
difficult to maintain our financial performance and customer relationships.     We are facing increased competition,
particularly in information technology and cyber security at our IS GS business segment, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry, in addition to our customers determining to source work internally rather
than hiring a contractor. At the same time, our customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions and reducing product development cycles. We have also experienced increased
market pressures in our services businesses due to the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. It is critical we maintain strong customer relationships and seek to understand
the priorities of their requirements in this price competitive environment.    In international sales, we face substantial
competition from both U.S. manufacturers and international manufacturers whose governments sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies and other assistance for their products. Additionally, our competitors are also
focusing on increasing their international sales to partially mitigate the effect of reduced U.S. Government budgets. To remain competitive, we consistently must maintain strong customer relationships and provide superior performance, advanced
technology solutions and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives.  
 As a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent contractor. A
substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. The U.S. Government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity, GSA Schedule and other multi-award
contracts, which has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. In addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to obtain task orders under the
contract. The competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. Following award, we may encounter significant
expenses, delays, contract modifications or bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. Unsuccessful bidders are more frequently protesting in the hope of being awarded a subcontract for a portion of the work in return for
withdrawing the protest. Bid protests could result in significant expenses to us, contract modifications or even loss of the contract award. Even where a bid protest does not result in the loss of a contract award, the resolution can extend the time
until the contract activity can begin and, therefore, delay our recognizing sales.     We are the prime contractor on most of our
contracts and if our subcontractors, suppliers or teaming agreement or venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and our ability to win future business could be harmed.   
 For most of our contracts we rely on other companies to provide materials, major components and products and to perform a
portion of the services that we provide to our customers. Such arrangements may involve subcontracts, teaming arrangements, ventures or supply agreements with other companies upon which we rely (contracting parties). There is a risk that we may have
disputes with our contracting parties, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party, customer concerns about the other party s performance, our failure to extend existing task
orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate or venture partner or vice versa. In addition, changes in the economic environment, including defense budgets and constraints on available financing, may
adversely affect the financial stability of our contracting parties and their ability to meet their performance requirements or to provide needed supplies on a timely basis. A failure for whatever reason by one or more of our contracting parties to
provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations and require that we transition the work to other companies. For example, on February 5, 2015, one of our
suppliers experienced a fire in its factory which produces propellers for our C-130J aircraft. That supplier is the sole source of these propellers. We are working with that supplier to assess whether the supplier will be able to meet its
commitments to us and the potential disruption if it is not. Contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could result in a customer terminating our contract for default or convenience. A default termination could
expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. Additionally, our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services could negatively impact our
ability to attract and retain suppliers.     International sales may pose different risks.   
 In 2014, 20% of our net sales were from international customers. We have a strategy to grow international sales over the next
several years, inclusive of sales of F-35 aircraft to our international partners and other countries. International sales are subject to numerous political and economic factors, regulatory requirements, significant competition and other risks
associated with doing business in foreign countries. Our exposure to such risks may increase if our international sales grow as we anticipate.  
      13  

Table of Contents  

  Our international business is conducted through foreign military sales (FMS)
contracted through the U.S. Government or direct commercial sales (DCS) with international customers. In 2014, approximately half of our sales to international customers were FMS while the other half were DCS. These transaction types differ as FMS
transactions represent sales by the U.S. Government to international governments and our contract with the U.S. Government is subject to FAR. By contrast, DCS transactions represent sales by us directly to another international government or
commercial customer. All sales to international customers are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to anti-corruption, import-export control, technology transfer restrictions,
taxation, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. We frequently team with international subcontractors
and suppliers who are also exposed to similar risks. While we have stringent policies in place to comply with such laws and regulations, failure by us, our employees or others working on our behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could
result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including suspension, proposed debarment or debarment from bidding for or performing government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on
us.    While international sales, whether contracted as FMS or DCS, present risks that are different and potentially greater
than those encountered in our U.S. business, DCS with international customers may impose even greater risks as such transactions involve commercial relationships with parties with whom we have less familiarity and where there may be significant
cultural differences. Additionally, international procurement rules and regulations, contract laws and regulations and contractual terms differ from those in the U.S., are less familiar to us, may be interpreted by foreign courts less bound by
precedent and with more discretion and frequently have terms less favorable to us than the FAR. Export and import, tax and currency risk also may be increased for DCS with international customers. While these risks are potentially greater than those
encountered in our U.S. business, the pricing of our products and services is commensurate with the risk profile on DCS with international customers.  
 Our international business is highly sensitive to changes in regulations, political environments or security risks that may
affect our ability to conduct business outside of the U.S., including those regarding investment, procurement, taxation and repatriation of earnings. Our international business also may be impacted by changes in foreign national priorities, foreign
government budgets and global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Sales of military products are also affected by defense budgets and U.S. foreign policy. Additionally, the timing of orders from our international
customers can be less predictable than for our U.S. customers and may lead to fluctuations in the amount reported each year for our international sales.  
 In conjunction with defense procurements, some international customers require contractors to comply with industrial
cooperation regulations, including entering into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. Offset agreements may require in-country purchases, technology transfers, local manufacturing support, investments in
foreign joint ventures and financial support projects as an incentive or as a condition to a contract award. In some countries, these offset agreements may require the establishment of a venture with a local company, which must control the venture.
The costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract and may impact our profitability and cash flows. The ability to recover investments that we make is generally dependent upon the
successful operation of ventures that we do not control and may involve products and services that are dissimilar to our business activities. In these and other situations, we could be liable for violations of law for actions taken by these entities
such as laws related to anti-corruption, import and export and anti-boycott restrictions. Offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties, which are subject to change, in the event we fail to perform in accordance
with the offset requirements which are typically subjective and can be outside our control.     Our business involves significant risks
and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance.     A significant portion of our business relates to
designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology products and systems. New technologies may be untested or unproven. Failure of some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage.
Accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security,
homeland security and training programs. In some but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers, either through U.S. Government indemnifications under Public Law 85-804,
qualification of our products and services by the Department of Homeland Security under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, contractual provisions or otherwise. We endeavor to obtain insurance coverage from established
insurance carriers to cover these risks and liabilities. The amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, existing coverage may be cancelled while we remain exposed to the risk, and it is not
possible to obtain insurance to protect against all  
      14  

Table of Contents  

operational risks and liabilities. For example, we are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover certain natural hazards such as earthquakes and we have significant operations in
geographic areas prone to this risk, such as Sunnyvale, California. Even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage terms
or the insolvency of one or more of our insurance carriers may significantly affect the amount or timing of our cash flows.  
 Substantial costs resulting from an accident, failure of or defect in our products or services, natural catastrophe or other
incident, or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any legal protection, indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial
condition, cash flows or operating results. Any accident or failure of or defect in our products or services, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult
for us to compete effectively. It also could affect the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future.     Pension funding and
costs are dependent on several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly as well as affect the affordability of our products and services.   
 Many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans and we provide certain health care and life insurance
benefits to eligible retirees. The impact of these plans on our U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from
year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity
(also known as mortality) estimates, expected rates of increase in future compensation levels through December 31, 2015 for our non-union plans, and employee turnover, as well as the timing of cash funding. Changes in these factors also affect
our plan funding, cash flow and stockholders  equity. In addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts, as described below, also may be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. We have taken
certain actions over the last few years to mitigate the volatility the plans may have on our cash flows and earnings, including amendments made in June 2014 to certain of our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans for non-union
employees to freeze future retirement benefits. However, the impact of these actions may be less than anticipated or may be offset by other pension cost increases due to factors such as changes in actuarial assumptions.  
 With regard to cash flow, in the past few years we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans in excess of the
amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA). We generally are able to recover these contributions related to our plans as allowable costs on our U.S.
Government contracts, including FMS, but there is a lag between when we contribute cash to our plans under pension funding rules and recover it under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). Effective February 2012, the CAS rules were
revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government contracts with the PPA (CAS Harmonization). In 2013, the cost impact of CAS Harmonization started being phased in with the goal of better aligning
the CAS pension cost and ERISA funding requirements being fully achieved in 2017. The enactment of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 increased the interest rate assumption used to determine our CAS pension costs, which has the
effect of lowering the recovery of pension contributions during the affected periods as it decreases our CAS pension costs.  
 For more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders  equity,
see  Critical Accounting Policies   Postretirement Benefit Plans  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations and  Note 9   Postretirement Plans  of our consolidated
financial statements.     If we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, equity investments and other transactions successfully, our
financial results, business and future prospects could be harmed.     In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely
conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity investments. We seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing
products and services or customer base, at attractive valuations. We often compete with others for the same opportunities. To be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate
transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, integrate acquired companies and employees and realize anticipated operating synergies efficiently and effectively. Acquisition, divestiture, venture and investment transactions often
require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. Unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results, particularly successor liability under
anti-corruption, import-export and technology transfer laws which provide for civil and criminal penalties and the potential for debarment.  
      15  

Table of Contents  

  Ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties.
Under the equity method of accounting for nonconsolidated ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating profit of these ventures in our results of operations. Our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses
over which we do not exercise control and which face many of the same risks and uncertainties as we do. The most significant impact of our equity investments is in our Space Systems business segment where approximately 27% of its 2014 operating
profit was derived from its share of earnings from equity method investees, particularly that in United Launch Alliance (ULA).  
 Our ULA investment may be negatively impacted by a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015
(NDAA) which prevents the Secretary of Defense from awarding or renewing contracts for evolved expendable launch vehicle services after December 19, 2014 which utilize a rocket engine designed or manufactured in the Russian Federation. ULA uses
the Russian-made RD-180 engine for its Atlas V launch vehicle. ULA s current block buy contract with the Air Force, which provides for launch vehicle services through 2017 (with options through 2019), is exempted from the NDAA prohibition,
as are contracts that utilize Russian engines that were paid for or covered by a legally binding commitment prior to February 1, 2014. Lockheed Martin does not anticipate any impact on the carrying value of its equity investment in ULA in 2015
as a consequence of the NDAA prohibition. ULA is currently evaluating domestic engine alternatives for its Atlas V launch vehicle and we will monitor the situation for potential impacts on our Space Systems business segment after 2015.  
  Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions.   
 As a U.S. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, insider threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and
employees and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters or public health crises.  
 We routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and unauthorized attempts
to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and venture partners. We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement.  
 Prior cyberattacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results and we believe our threat detection
and mitigation processes and procedures are adequate. The threats we face vary from attacks common to most industries to more advanced and persistent, highly organized adversaries who target us because we protect national security information. If we
are unable to protect sensitive information, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the
impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.    Although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers,
subcontractors, venture partners and acquisitions to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our
information. These entities have varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards and their relationships with government contractors, such as Lockheed Martin, may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber threats we
face.    The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by
other means. Additionally, some cyber technologies we develop under contract for our customers, particularly those related to homeland security, may raise potential liabilities related to intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy
concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to our customers, our future financial results, our reputation or
our stock price; or such events could result in the loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or other intellectual property, early obsolescence of our products and services or contractual penalties.  
  Environmental costs could affect our future earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services.   
 Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental protection laws and
regulations. We are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been designated a potentially responsible party by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or by a state agency. In addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment or natural resources. We have an ongoing comprehensive sustainability program
to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment.  
      16  

Table of Contents  

  We manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. At
such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation costs historically have been the responsibility of the government and we have relied, and continue to rely with respect to past practices, upon government funding to pay such costs. Although
the government remains responsible for capital and operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the
contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant facts. Some environmental laws include criminal provisions. An environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, U.S. Government contracts.  
 We have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes for
environmental protection and remediation. The extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. Among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites
generally are the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and
cost allowability issues. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent probable and estimable, see  Critical Accounting Policies  
Environmental Matters  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and  Note 12   Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies  of our consolidated financial statements.  
  We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty.
    Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be
predicted with certainty. As required by GAAP, we estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known
to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. For a description
of our current legal proceedings, see Item 3   Legal Proceedings and  Note 12   Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies  of our consolidated financial statements.  
  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a qualified workforce.   
 Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain a
workforce with the requisite skills in multiple areas including: engineering, science, manufacturing, information technology, cyber security, business development and strategy and management. Our operating performance is also dependent upon
personnel who hold security clearances and receive substantial training in order to work on certain programs or tasks. Additionally, as we expand our operations internationally, it will be increasingly important to hire and retain personnel with
relevant experience in local laws, regulations, customs, traditions and business practices.    We face a number of
challenges that may affect personnel retention such as our endeavors to increase the efficiency of our operations and improve the affordability of our products and services such as workforce reductions and consolidating and relocating certain
operations. Additionally, our workforce demographic continues to shift toward a higher population that is nearing retirement. In June 2014, we amended certain of our defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement
benefits, which may encourage retirement-eligible personnel to elect to retire earlier than anticipated.    To the extent
that we lose experienced personnel, it is critical that we develop other employees, hire new qualified personnel, and successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in
hiring or retaining personnel with the requisite skills or clearances. We increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical, cyber and scientific positions as the number
of qualified domestic engineers is decreasing and the number of cyber professionals is not keeping up with demand. To the extent that these companies grow at a faster rate or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer
more attractive compensation and other benefits to candidates or our existing employees. To the extent that the demand for skilled personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting or training costs in order to attract and
retain such employees, or could experience difficulty in performing our contracts if we were unable to do so. We also must manage leadership development and succession planning throughout our business. While we have processes in place for management
transition and the transfer of knowledge, the loss of key personnel, coupled with an inability to adequately train other personnel, hire new personnel or transfer knowledge could significantly impact our ability to perform under our contracts.  
      17  

Table of Contents  

  Approximately 15% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements with various unions. Historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating
activities. This does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements in the future. If we encounter difficulties with renegotiations or renewals of collective
bargaining arrangements or were unsuccessful in those efforts, we could incur additional costs and experience work stoppages. Union actions at suppliers can also affect us. Any delays or work stoppages could adversely affect our ability to perform
under our contracts, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.     Our estimates and
projections may prove to be inaccurate.     The accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on
judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. For example, accounting for sales using the percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical and
performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. Another example is the $10.9 billion of goodwill assets recorded on our Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2014 from previous acquisitions that were
made over time which represent greater than 25% of our total assets and are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstances that indicate goodwill may be
impaired. If we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the reporting unit s related goodwill assets.  
 Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in
unanticipated increases in our tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. For example, proposals to lower the U.S. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of the related tax
legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense, but our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years.  
 Actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. Refer to  Critical Accounting Policies  in
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and  Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies  of our consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our significant accounting
policies and use of estimates.      

ITEM 1B.  
  Unresolved Staff Comments.       None.  

ITEM 2.  
  Properties.       At December 31, 2014, we owned or leased building
space (including offices, manufacturing plants, warehouses, service centers, laboratories and other facilities) at approximately 540 locations primarily in the U.S. Additionally, we manage or occupy various U.S. Government-owned facilities under
lease and other arrangements.    At December 31, 2014, we had significant operations in the following locations:  

Aeronautics    Palmdale, California; Marietta, Georgia; Greenville, South Carolina; Fort Worth and San Antonio, Texas; and Montreal,
Canada.     

Information Systems   Global Solutions    Colorado Springs and Denver, Colorado; Baltimore, Gaithersburg and Rockville,
Maryland; Valley Forge, Pennsylvania; and Herndon, Virginia.     

Missiles and Fire Control    Camden, Arkansas; Orlando, Florida; Lexington, Kentucky; and Grand Prairie, Texas.     

Mission Systems and Training    Orlando, Florida; Baltimore, Maryland; Moorestown/Mt. Laurel, New Jersey; Owego and Syracuse, New York;
Akron, Ohio; and Manassas, Virginia.     

Space Systems    Huntsville, Alabama; Sunnyvale, California; Denver, Colorado; Albuquerque, New Mexico; and Newtown, Pennsylvania.

Corporate activities    Lakeland, Florida and Bethesda, Maryland.     
 In November 2013, we committed to a plan to vacate our leased facilities in Goodyear, Arizona and Akron, Ohio, and close our
owned facility in Newtown, Pennsylvania and certain owned buildings at our Sunnyvale, California facility. These closures will reduce approximately 2.5 million square feet of facility space. Approximately 200,000 square feet was vacated during
2014 and the remaining 2.3 million square feet will be vacated during 2015. For information regarding these matters, see  Note 14   Restructuring Charges  of our consolidated financial statements.  
      18  

Table of Contents  

  The following is a summary of our square feet of floor space by business segment
at December 31, 2014, inclusive of the facilities that we plan to vacate as mentioned above (in millions):      
   We believe our facilities are in good condition and adequate for their current use. We may
improve, replace or reduce facilities as considered appropriate to meet the needs of our operations.      

ITEM 3.  
  Legal Proceedings.       We are a party to or have property subject to
litigation and other proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including matters arising under provisions relating to the protection of the environment and are subject to contingencies related to certain businesses we previously
owned. These types of matters could result in fines, penalties, compensatory or treble damages or non-monetary relief. We believe the probability is remote that the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Corporation as a
whole, notwithstanding that the unfavorable resolution of any matter may have a material effect on our net earnings in any particular interim reporting period. We cannot predict the outcome of legal or other proceedings with certainty. These matters
include the proceedings summarized in  Note 12   Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies  of our consolidated financial statements.  
 We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign requirements for protection of the environment, including those for
discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. As a result, we are a party to or have our property subject to various lawsuits or proceedings involving environmental protection matters. Due in part to their complexity and
pervasiveness, such requirements have resulted in us being involved with related legal proceedings, claims and remediation obligations. The extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. For information
regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or clean-up to the extent estimable, see  Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental Matters  in Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and  Note 12   Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies  of our consolidated financial statements.  
 As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to various audits and investigations by the U.S. Government to determine
whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. U.S. Government investigations of us, whether relating to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil or
criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension, proposed debarment, debarment from eligibility for future U.S. Government contracting or suspension of export privileges. Suspension
or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our dependence on contracts with the U.S. Government. U.S. Government investigations often take years to complete and many result in no adverse action against us. We also provide
products and services to customers outside of the U.S., which are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and foreign procurement policies and practices. Our compliance with local regulations or applicable U.S. Government regulations also
may be audited or investigated.      

ITEM 4.  
  Mine Safety Disclosures.       Not applicable.  
      19  

Table of Contents  

ITEM 4(a).  
  Executive Officers of the Registrant.       Our executive officers as of
February 9, 2015 are listed below, with their ages on that date, positions and offices currently held, and principal occupation and business experience during at least the last five years. There were no family relationships among any of our
executive officers and directors. All officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.     Richard F. Ambrose (age 56),
Executive Vice President   Space Systems     Mr. Ambrose has served as Executive Vice President of Space
Systems since April 2013. He previously served as Vice President and Deputy, Space Systems from July 2012 to March 2013; President, Information Systems   Global Solutions   Security from January 2011 to June 2012; and Vice President
and General Manager, Space Systems   Surveillance and Navigations Systems from January 2008 to December 2010.     Sondra L. Barbour
(age 52), Executive Vice President   Information Systems   Global Solutions     Ms. Barbour has served
as Executive Vice President of Information Systems   Global Solutions since April 2013. She previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2012 to March 2013, and Vice President and Chief Information
Officer from February 2008 to January 2012.     Dale P. Bennett (age 58), Executive Vice President   Mission Systems and Training
    Mr. Bennett has served as Executive Vice President of Mission Systems and Training since December 2012. He
previously served as President, Mission Systems   Sensors from August 2011 to December 2012; President, Global Training and Logistics from June 2010 to July 2011; and President, Simulation, Training   Support from July 2005 to May
2010.     Orlando P. Carvalho (age 56), Executive Vice President   Aeronautics   
 Mr. Carvalho has served as Executive Vice President of Aeronautics since March 2013. He previously served as Executive
Vice President and General Manager, F-35 Program from March 2012 to March 2013; Vice President and Deputy, F-35 Program from August 2011 to March 2012; President, Mission Systems   Sensors from January 2010 to July 2011; and Vice President
and General Manager, Surface Systems Ballistic Missile Defense Programs from January 2006 to January 2010.     Brian P. Colan (age 54),
Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer     Mr. Colan has served as Vice President, Controller, and
Chief Accounting Officer since August 2014. He previously served as Vice President and Controller, Missiles and Fire Control from January 2013 to August 2014; and Vice President and Controller, Electronic Systems from October 2011 to January
2013. He was previously employed by British Aerospace Systems from January 2005 to September 2011, most recently as Vice President, Finance, Land Armaments Operation Group.  
  Patrick M. Dewar (age 54), Executive Vice President   Lockheed Martin International   
 Mr. Dewar has served as Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin International since July 2013. He previously
served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Development from October 2010 to June 2013; and Vice President, Corporate International Business Development from January 2009 to September 2010.  
  Richard H. Edwards (age 58), Executive Vice President   Missiles and Fire Control   
 Mr. Edwards has served as Executive Vice President of Missiles and Fire Control since December 2012. He previously served
as Executive Vice President, Program and Technology Integration, Missiles and Fire Control from June 2012 to December 2012; and Vice President, Tactical Missiles and Combat Maneuver Systems from July 2005 to June 2012.  
  Marillyn A. Hewson (age 61), Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
 Ms. Hewson has served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lockheed Martin since January 2014. Having
served 31 years at Lockheed Martin in roles of increasing responsibility, she held the positions of Chief Executive Officer and President from January 2013 to December 2013; President and Chief Operating Officer from November 2012 to December 2012;
Executive Vice President   Electronic Systems from January 2010 to November 2012; and President, Systems Integration   Owego from September 2008 to December 2009.  
  Maryanne R. Lavan (age 55), Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary   
 Ms. Lavan has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel since June 2010 and Corporate Secretary since September
2010. She previously served as Vice President, Internal Audit from February 2007 to June 2010.  
      20  

Table of Contents  

   Kenneth R. Possenriede (age 55), Vice President and Treasurer   
 Mr. Possenriede has served as Vice President and Treasurer since July 2011. He previously served as Vice President,
Finance and Business Operations of Electronic Systems from July 2008 to June 2011.     Bruce L. Tanner (age 55), Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer     Mr. Tanner has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
September 2007.  
      21  

Table of Contents  

   PART II       

ITEM 5.  
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.      
  Market, Price and Dividend Information   
 Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol LMT. As of January 23, 2015, there were
32,534 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low intra-day trading prices of our common stock as reported on the NYSE and cash dividends paid each quarter within the past two years.  
   
    Stock Performance Graph   
 The following performance graph provides a comparison of the cumulative total return to stockholders of our common stock,
assuming reinvestment of dividends, with cumulative total returns for the Standard and Poor s (S P) 500 Index and the S P Aerospace and Defense Index during the five years ended December 31, 2014. The performance graph assumes $100
was originally invested in each of our common stock and the indices on December 31, 2009. The cumulative total return indicated in the performance graph is not a guarantee of future performance.  

The S P Aerospace and Defense Index is comprised of The Boeing Company, General
Dynamics Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Precision Castparts Corp., Raytheon Company, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Textron Inc. and United
Technologies Corporation.  
      22  

Table of Contents  

   Purchases of Equity Securities   
 The following table provides information about our repurchases of our common stock registered pursuant to Section 12 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the quarter ended December 31, 2014.      

(a)   
   We close our books and records on the last Sunday of each month to align our financial closing with our business processes, except for the month of
December, as our fiscal year ends on December 31. As a result, our fiscal months often differ from the calendar months. For example, September 29, 2014 was the first day of our October 2014 fiscal month.     

(b)   
   In October 2010, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase our common stock in
privately negotiated transactions or in the open market at prices per share not exceeding the then-current market prices. On September 25, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a $2.0 billion increase to the program. Under the program,
management has discretion to determine the dollar amount of shares to be repurchased and the timing of any repurchases in compliance with applicable law and regulation. We also may make purchases under the program pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans. The
program does not have an expiration date.     

(c)   
   During the quarter ended December 31, 2014, the total number of shares purchased included 57,014 shares that were transferred to us by
employees in satisfaction of minimum tax withholding obligations associated with the vesting of restricted stock units. These purchases were made pursuant to a separate authorization by our Board of Directors and are not included within the program.
    
      23  

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.  
  Selected Financial Data.         

(c)   
   Our net earnings from continuing operations included an $89 million reduction in income tax expense in 2011 through the elimination of liabilities
for unrecognized tax benefits and an increase in income tax expense of $96 million in 2010 as a result of health care legislation that eliminated the tax deduction for company-paid retiree prescription drug expenses to the extent they are reimbursed
under Medicare Part D.     

(d)   
   Our net earnings were affected by the items in notes (a), (b) and (c) above, as well as items related to discontinued operations such as a
$184 million gain ($.50 per share) in 2010 on the sale of Enterprise Integration Group and $73 million ($.20 per share) of benefits for certain adjustments related to Pacific Architects and Engineers in 2010.     

(f)   
   The fluctuations in our net cash provided by operating activities between years from 2011 to 2014 were due to changes in working capital in addition
to our pension contributions discussed in note (b) above. See  Liquidity and Cash Flows  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information.     

(g)   
   The increase in our cash used for investing activities in 2014 was attributable to acquisitions of businesses (Note 13).     

(h)   
   The increase in our cash used for financing activities in 2014 was due to decreased proceeds from stock option exercises, higher dividends paid and
increased payments for repurchases of common stock. See  Liquidity and Cash Flows  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information.     
      24  

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.  
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.     
   Business Overview    
 We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture,
integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics and information services. We serve both U.S. and international customers
with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2014, 79% of our $45.6 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime
contractor or as a subcontractor (including 59% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 20% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) contracted through the U.S. Government) and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other
customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security and information technology, including cyber security.  
 We operate in five business segments: Aeronautics, Information Systems   Global Solutions (IS GS), Missiles and
Fire Control (MFC), Mission Systems and Training (MST) and Space Systems. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered.  
 We operate in an environment characterized by both increasing complexity in global security and continuing economic pressures
in the U.S. and globally. A significant component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services and placing security capability quickly
into the hands of our U.S. and international customers at affordable prices. Recognizing that our customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio domestically in a disciplined manner with a focus on
adjacent markets close to our core capabilities, as well as growing our international sales. We continue to focus on affordability initiatives. We also expect to continue to invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our
customers and invest in our people so that we have the technical skills necessary to succeed without limiting our ability to return substantially all of our free cash flow 1  to our investors in the
form of dividends and share repurchases over the next three years.    We expect 2015 net sales will decline in the low
single digit range from 2014 levels as we continue to see downward pressure from the effects of U.S. Government budget reductions, primarily in our services businesses. We expect our 2015 segment operating profit will decline in the mid to high
single digit range from 2014 levels due to an expected decrease in segment operating profit at all five business segments. Accordingly, we expect 2015 segment operating profit margin will be below the 2014 levels, in the 11.5% to 12.0% range. Our
outlook for 2015 assumes the U.S. Government continues to support and fund our key programs, consistent with the government fiscal year (GFY) 2015 budget. Changes in circumstances may require us to revise our assumptions, which could materially
change our current estimate of 2015 net sales and operating profit margin. For additional information related to trends in net sales and operating profit at our business segments, see the  Business Segment Results of Operations  section
below.      Industry Considerations    
  U.S. Government Funding Constraints   
 The U.S. Government, our principal customer, continues to face significant fiscal and economic challenges such as financial
deficits, budget uncertainty, increasing debt levels, and an economy with restrained growth. To address these challenges, the U.S. Government continues to focus on discretionary spending, entitlement programs, taxes, and other initiatives to
stimulate the economy, create jobs, and reduce the deficit. In doing so, the Administration and Congress must balance decisions regarding defense, homeland security, and other federal spending priorities in a constrained fiscal environment largely
imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Control Act). The Budget Control Act established limits on discretionary spending, which provided for reductions to planned defense spending of $487 billion over a 10 year period that began with
GFY 2012 (a U.S. Government fiscal year starts on October 1 and ends on September 30). The Budget Control Act also provided for additional automatic spending reductions, known as sequestration, which went into effect on March 1, 2013,
that would have reduced planned defense spending by an additional $500 billion over a nine-year period that began in GFY 2013.  
 In December 2013, the U.S. Government enacted the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Bipartisan Budget Act), which increased the
limits on discretionary spending for GFY 2015 among other fiscal changes. Although the Bipartisan Budget      
  1  We define free cash flow as cash from operations as determined under U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP), less capital expenditures as presented on our Statements of Cash Flows.  
      25  

Table of Contents  

Act allows for more certainty in the budget planning process for GFY 2015, it retained sequestration cuts for GFYs 2016 through 2021, including the across-the-board spending reduction methodology
provided for in the Budget Control Act. As a result, there remains uncertainty regarding how sequestration cuts beyond GFY 2015 will be applied as the DoD and other agencies may have significantly less flexibility in how to apply budget cuts in
future years. While the defense budget sustained the largest single reductions under the Budget Control Act, other civil agencies and programs have also been impacted by significant spending reductions. In light of the Budget Control Act and deficit
reduction pressures, it is likely that discretionary spending by the U.S. Government will remain constrained for a number of years.  
 On December 16, 2014, the U.S. Government passed the GFY 2015 omnibus spending bill to finance most federal activities
through September 30, 2015, the end of its current fiscal year, after operating under continuing resolution temporary funding measures from October 1, 2014 to December 16, 2014. Currently, the Department of Homeland Security remains
funded through a continuing resolution until February 27, 2015. The omnibus spending bill provides for a revised defense spending limit of $585 billion for GFY 2015 and eliminated much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procuring products
and services under the continuing resolution. Under continuing resolutions, partial-year funding is available at prior year levels, subject to certain restrictions, but new spending initiatives are not authorized.  
 On February 2, 2015, the President submitted a budget proposal for GFY 2016, which included $534 billion for defense spending,
about $35 billion more than the spending limits under the Budget Control Act. The budget also provides for $51 billion in additional war spending. We anticipate there will continue to be a significant debate within the U.S. Government over
defense spending throughout the budget process for GFY 2016 and beyond. The outcome of these debates could have long-term consequences for our industry and company as described below. However, we continue to believe that our portfolio of products
and services will continue to be well supported in a strategically focused allocation of budget resources.     Potential Impacts of Budget
Reductions     While recent budget actions provide a more measured and strategic approach to addressing the U.S.
Government s fiscal challenges, sequestration remains a long-term concern. If not further modified, sequestration could have significant negative impacts on our industry and company in future periods. There may be disruption of ongoing
programs, impacts to our supply chain, contractual actions (including partial or complete terminations), potential facilities closures, and thousands of personnel reductions across the industry that will severely impact advanced manufacturing
operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge. Sequestration, or other budgetary cuts in lieu of sequestration, could have a material negative effect on our company.  
 Despite the continued uncertainty surrounding U.S. Government budgets, the investments and acquisitions we have made in recent
years have sought to align our businesses with what we believe are the most critical national priorities and mission areas. Additionally, we are seeking to lessen our dependence on contracts with the U.S. Government by focusing on expanding into
adjacent markets close to our core capabilities and growing international sales but we may not be successful in this strategy. The possibility remains, however, that our programs could be materially reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of
the U.S. Government s continuing assessment of priorities, changes in government priorities, or budget reductions, including sequestration (particularly in those circumstances where sequestration is implemented across-the-board without regard
to national priorities). Additionally, decreases in production volume associated with budget cuts, including sequestration, will increase unit costs making our products less affordable for both our U.S. and international customers. In particular,
sequestration may also result in significant rescheduling or termination activity with our supplier base. Such activity could result in claims from our suppliers, which may include the amount established in any settlement agreements, the costs of
evaluating the supplier settlement proposals, and the costs of negotiating settlement agreements. Budget cuts, including sequestration, could result in restructuring charges, impairment of assets, including goodwill, or other charges. We expect
costs associated with claims from our suppliers and restructuring charges will be recovered from our customers.  
 Generally, we expect that the impact of budget reductions on our operating results will lag in certain of our businesses with
longer cycles such as our Aeronautics and Space Systems business segments, and our products businesses within our MFC and MST business segments, due to our production contract backlog. However, our businesses with smaller, short-term contracts are
the most susceptible to the impacts of budget reductions, such as our IS GS business segment and certain services businesses within our MFC and MST business segments. We have also experienced increased market pressures in these services
businesses including lower in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on existing contracts coupled with the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis
of price. Additionally, our services businesses across most of our business segments have experienced lower volume due to improved product field performance that require less service support.  
      26  

Table of Contents  

   Other Business Considerations   
  International Business   
 A key component of our strategic plan is to grow our international sales. To accomplish this growth, we continue to focus on
expanding our in-country presence and strengthening our relationships internationally through partnerships and local production joint technology offices. Since 2013, we have acquired Amor Group, a United Kingdom-based company, and we have opened new
in-country offices including Israel, United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia that will enable development of partnerships to create products and enhance our offerings in technology, aerospace and security sectors. We conduct
business with international customers primarily through our Aeronautics, MFC and MST business segments.    In our
Aeronautics business segment, there remains strong international interest in the F-35 program. The F-35 program includes commitments from eight international partner countries and three international customers; as well as expressions of interest
from other countries. The U.S. Government and the eight partner countries continue to work together on the design, testing, production and sustainment of the F-35. The international role on the program is growing as we installed the Autonomic
Logistics Information System Central Point of Entry kit at the final assembly and checkout facility in Italy. We also delivered the first two Australian F-35 aircraft in 2014. The number of F-35 aircraft for international customers in recent
low-rate initial production (LRIP) contracts continues to increase, with the recent LRIP 8 contract including aircraft orders for Israel and Japan.  
 Other areas of international expansion at our Aeronautics business segment include the F-16 and C-130J programs. The award
from Iraq in 2013 for 18 additional F-16 aircraft extends production into 2017. Also, we delivered 11 C-130J Super Hercules aircraft to various international customers in 2014.  
 Our MFC business segment produces the Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD)
air and missile defense systems, which continue to generate significant international interest. The PAC-3 is an advanced missile defense system designed to intercept incoming airborne threats. During 2014, we received an award to provide PAC-3
missile defense equipment to Qatar. Other international customers include Japan, Germany, the Netherlands, Taiwan, Kuwait and the UAE. Other countries in the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific region have also expressed interest in our air and missile
defense systems. Additionally, we continue to see international demand for our tactical missile and fire control products.  
 In our MST business segment, we continue to experience international interest in the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense System.
We perform activities in the development, production, ship integration and test and lifetime support for ships of international customers such as Japan, Spain, Korea and Australia. We have an ongoing program in Canada for combat systems equipment
upgrades on 13 Halifax-class frigates. In our Training and Logistics Solutions portfolio, we have active programs and pursuits in United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Canada, Singapore, Qatar, and Australia. Also, we integrate mission avionics on the MH-60
program for Australia and Denmark.     Status of the F-35 Program   
 The F-35 program consists of a development contract and multiple production contracts, including sustainment activities. The
development contract is being performed concurrent with the production contracts. Concurrent performance of development and production contracts is used for complex programs to test aircraft, shorten the time to field systems, and achieve overall
cost savings. We expect the development portion of the F-35 program will be substantially complete in 2017, with less significant efforts continuing into 2019. Production of the aircraft is expected to continue for many years given the U.S.
Government s current inventory objective of 2,443 aircraft for the Air Force, Marine Corps, and Navy; commitments from our eight international partners and three international customers; as well as expressions of interest from other countries.
   The U.S. Government continues to complete various operational tests, including ship trials, mission system evaluations,
and weapons testing, with the F-35 aircraft fleet recently surpassing 25,000 flight hours. In November 2014, the U.S. Government successfully completed testing of the carrier variant at sea aboard the USS Nimitz. Progress continues to be made on the
production of aircraft. As of December 31, 2014, we have delivered 109 production aircraft to our U.S. and international partners including delivery of the final LRIP contract 5 aircraft, and have 100 production aircraft in backlog, including
orders from our international partners.  
      27  

Table of Contents  

  Given the size and complexity of the F-35 program, we anticipate that there will
be continual reviews related to aircraft performance, program schedule, cost, and requirements as part of the DoD, Congressional, and international partners  oversight and budgeting processes. Current program challenges include, but are not
limited to, supplier and partner performance, software development, level of cost associated with life cycle operations and sustainment and warranties, receiving funding for production contracts on a timely basis, executing future flight tests,
findings resulting from testing, and operating the aircraft.      Portfolio Shaping Activities    
 We continuously strive to strengthen our portfolio of products and services to meet the current and future needs of our
customers. We accomplish this in part by our independent research and development activities and through acquisition, divestiture and internal realignment activities. Internal realignments are designed to more fully leverage existing capabilities
and enhance development and delivery of products and services.    We selectively pursue the acquisition of businesses and
investments at attractive valuations that will expand or complement our current portfolio and allow access to new customers or technologies. We have made a number of niche acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates during the past
several years. We also may explore the divestiture of businesses. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, ventures and equity
investments.     Acquisitions   
 In 2014, we paid $898 million for acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired, primarily
related to the acquisitions of Systems Made Simple, Zeta Associates, Inc. (Zeta) and Industrial Defender, Inc. (Industrial Defender). Systems Made Simple provides solutions that leverage information technology in the healthcare domain to improve,
increase, enable and ensure the exchange and interoperability of information between patients, providers and payers and has been included in our IS GS business segment. Zeta designs systems that enable collection, processing, safeguarding and
dissemination of information for intelligence and defense communities and has been included in our Space Systems business segment. Industrial Defender is a provider of cyber security solutions for control systems in the oil and gas, utility and
chemical industries and has been included in our IS GS business segment.    In 2013, we paid $269 million for
acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired, primarily related to the acquisition of Amor Group, a United Kingdom-based company specializing in information technology, civil government services and the energy
market. This acquisition is aligned with our strategy to grow international sales and has been included in our IS GS business segment.  
 In 2012, we paid $259 million for acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired, primarily
related to the acquisitions of Chandler/May, Inc. (Chandler/May), CDL Systems Ltd. (CDL) and Procerus Technologies, L.C. (Procerus). These companies specialize in the design, development, manufacturing, control and support of advanced unmanned
systems, which expand our offerings in support of our customers  increased emphasis on advanced unmanned systems and are consistent with our strategy to maintain a portfolio of advanced technology options. These companies are part of our MST
business segment where they have been integrated into our portfolio of unmanned systems and technologies to align their product and service offerings to the U.S. Army. For additional information, see  Note 13   Acquisitions and
Divestitures  of our consolidated financial statements.  
      28  

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Results of Operations    
 Since our operating cycle is primarily long term and involves many types of contracts for the design, development and
manufacture of products and related activities with varying delivery schedules, the results of operations of a particular year, or year-to-year comparisons of sales and profits, may not be indicative of future operating results. The following
discussions of comparative results among years should be reviewed in this context. All per share amounts cited in these discussions are presented on a  per diluted share  basis, unless otherwise noted. Our consolidated results of
operations were as follows (in millions, except per share data):      
   Certain amounts reported in other income, net, primarily our share of earnings or losses from
equity method investees, are included in the operating profit of our business segments. Accordingly, such amounts are included in our discussion of our business segment results of operations.  
  Net Sales   
 We generate sales from the delivery of products and services to our customers. Product sales are predominantly generated in
our Aeronautics, MFC, MST and Space Systems business segments and most of our service sales are generated in our IS GS and MFC business segments. Our consolidated net sales were as follows (in millions):  
   
   Substantially all of our contracts are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion
method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we record net sales on contracts based upon our progress towards completion on a particular contract, as well as our estimate of the profit to be earned at completion. The following discussion of
material changes in our consolidated net sales should be read in tandem with the following discussion of changes in our consolidated cost of sales and our business segment results of operations because changes in our sales are typically accompanied
by a corresponding change in our cost of sales due to the nature of the percentage-of-completion method.     Product Sales   
 Our product sales represent about 80% of our total sales for both 2014 and 2013. Product sales increased $402 million, or 1%,
in 2014 compared to 2013. Higher product sales of about $815 million at Aeronautics and approximately $280 million at MFC were partially offset by lower product sales of about $570 million at IS GS and approximately $125 million at Space
Systems. The increase in product sales at Aeronautics was attributable to higher volume on F-35 production contracts  
      29  

Table of Contents  

and sustainment activities, increased aircraft deliveries (F-16 program) and increased risk retirements (F-22 program). Product sales at MFC increased as a result of increased volume on air and
missile defense systems programs (primarily THAAD), and increased deliveries on fire control programs (including the Apache Fire Control System (Apache)). Lower product sales at IS GS were primarily due to the wind-down or completion of certain
programs, driven by reductions in direct warfighter support and defense budgets tied to command and control programs. The decline at Space Systems was due to lower volume for government satellite programs (primarily Advanced Extremely High Frequency
(AEHF), Global Positioning System III (GPS-III), and Mobile User Objective System (MUOS)), partially offset by the Orion program due to increased volume (primarily the first unmanned test flight of the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (MPCV)).  
 Our product sales represent about 80% of our total sales for both 2013 and 2012. Product sales decreased $2.1 billion, or 6%,
in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to lower volume and deliveries. Product sales decreased about $915 million at Aeronautics primarily due to fewer aircraft deliveries (primarily F-16 and C-130) and lower volume and risk retirements on F-22 due
to completion of aircraft deliveries in 2012, partially offset by increased volume and risk retirements on F-35 production contracts and increased aircraft deliveries on the C-5 program; about $750 million at IS GS for various programs due to
lower volume (such as Next Generation Identification (NGI) and En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) programs); about $440 million at MST due to fewer deliveries (primarily PTDS as final surveillance system deliveries occurred during the second
quarter of 2012) and lower volume (primarily integrated warfare systems and sensors programs); and about $405 million at Space Systems due to lower volume (primarily commercial satellites and the Orion program) partially offset by increased volume
(primarily various government satellite programs). The decreases were partially offset by higher product sales of about $380 million at MFC due to increased volume and risk retirements (primarily THAAD and deliveries of PAC-3).  
  Service Sales     Our
service sales represent about 20% of our total sales for 2014 and 2013. Service sales decreased $160 million, or 2%, in 2014 compared to 2013. The decreases were primarily due to lower service sales at MFC of about $355 million due to various
technical services programs as a result of decreased volume reflecting market pressures, and lower service sales at Aeronautics of about $20 million attributable to decreased sustainment activities. These decreases were partially offset by higher
service sales at Space Systems of about $230 million primarily for commercial space transportation programs due to launch-related activities.  
 Our service sales represent about 20% of our total sales for 2013 and 2012. Service sales increased $302 million, or 3%, in
2013 compared to 2012. Service sales increased about $270 million at IS GS primarily due to the start-up of certain programs (such as the Defense Information Systems Agency   Global Information Grid Services Management-Operations (DISA
GSM-O) and the National Science Foundation Antarctic Support); and about $85 million at Aeronautics primarily due to increased sustainment activities (primarily F-16). The increases were partially offset by lower service sales of about $80 million
at MFC for various technical services programs due to lower volume, partially offset by various fire control programs (primarily Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services (SOF CLSS)) due to higher volume. Service sales for 2013
were comparable to 2012 at both MST and Space Systems.     Cost of Sales   
 Cost of sales, for both products and services, consist of materials, labor, subcontracting costs, an allocation of indirect
costs (overhead and general and administrative), as well as the costs to fulfill our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, required under certain contracts with international customers. For each of our
contracts, we monitor the nature and amount of costs at the contract level, which form the basis for estimating our total costs to complete the contract. Our consolidated cost of sales were as follows (in millions):  

30  

Table of Contents  

  Due to the nature of percentage-of-completion accounting, changes in our cost of
sales for both products and services are typically accompanied by changes in our net sales. The following discussion of material changes in our consolidated cost of sales for products and services should be read in tandem with the preceding
discussion of changes in our consolidated net sales and our business segment results of operations. We have not identified any developing trends in cost of sales for products and services that would have a material impact on our future operations.
    Product Costs   
 Product costs increased $619 million, or 2%, in 2014 compared to 2013. Product costs increased about $815 million at
Aeronautics, approximately $320 million at MFC and about $85 million at MST. Increases in product costs at Aeronautics and MFC were primarily due to the reasons for higher product sales at each respective business segment described above, and net
warranty reserve adjustments recorded in 2014 at MFC (including Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM), and Guided Multiple Launcher Rocker Systems (GMLRS)). The increase at MST was primarily due to the settlements of contract cost matters on
certain programs in the prior year (including a portion of the terminated presidential helicopter program) that were not repeated in 2014 and higher reserves recorded on certain training and logistics solutions programs during 2014. These increases
in product costs were partially offset by decreases of about $475 million at IS GS and $130 million at Space Systems, primarily due to the reasons for lower product sales at each respective business segment described above. The 0.8% increase in
product costs as a percentage of product sales in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to the items increasing product costs at MFC and MST mentioned above, and decreased risk retirements at Aeronautics (primarily F-16).  
 Product costs decreased $2.1 billion, or 6%, in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to lower volume and deliveries. Product
costs decreased about $770 million at Aeronautics due to fewer aircraft deliveries (primarily F-16 and C-130) and lower volume (primarily F-22), partially offset by increased volume for F-35 production contracts, increased aircraft deliveries and
the impact of reducing the profit booking rate in the third quarter of 2013 for the C-5 program and lower risk retirements on various programs (primarily C-130); about $685 million at IS GS for various programs primarily due to decreased volume;
about $570 million at MST primarily due to fewer deliveries and net increased risk retirements for the PTDS program and various integrated warfare systems and sensors programs and for the favorable resolution of certain contract cost matters
(including the terminated presidential helicopter program); and about $315 million at Space Systems due to lower volume (primarily commercial satellites and the Orion program). The decreases were partially offset by higher product costs of about
$190 million at MFC due to increased volume (primarily THAAD and deliveries of PAC-3), partially offset by various other programs due increased risk retirements (primarily fire control programs). The 0.8% decrease in product costs as a percentage of
product sales in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to higher risk retirements (primarily at MFC and MST) and the favorable resolution of contractual matters at MST.  
  Service Costs     Service
costs decreased $195 million, or 2%, in 2014 compared to 2013. Lower service costs of about $325 million at MFC and approximately $40 million at Aeronautics were partially offset by an increase in service costs of approximately $225 million at Space
Systems. The decrease at MFC was attributable to lower volume for various technical services programs. The decline at Aeronautics was mostly attributable to decreased sustainment activities. The increase at Space Systems was primarily attributable
to commercial space transportation programs due to launch-related activities. The 0.5% decrease in service costs as a percentage of service sales in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to items decreasing service costs at MFC.  
 Service costs increased $205 million, or 2%, in 2013 compared to 2012. Most of our service costs are in the IS GS and MFC
business segments. The increase in service costs was primarily attributable to higher service costs at our IS GS and Aeronautics business segments partially offset by lower service costs at our MFC business segment. Service costs increased about
$245 million at IS GS primarily due to the start-up of various programs. Service costs increased about $40 million at Aeronautics primarily due to increased sustainment activities (primarily F-16). Service costs decreased about $75 million at
MFC primarily due to lower volume of various technical services programs, partially offset by higher volume from various fire control programs (primarily SOF CLSS). The 0.7% decrease in service costs as a percentage of service sales in 2013 compared
to 2012 was primarily due to higher risk retirements on sustainment contracts at Aeronautics.     Goodwill Impairment Charges   
 In the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $119 million and $195 million,
which reduced our net earnings by $107 million ($.33 per share) and $176 million ($.54 per share). For additional information, see the  Critical Accounting Policies   Goodwill  section below and  Note 1   Significant
Accounting Policies  of our consolidated financial statements.  
      31  

Table of Contents  

   Restructuring Charges   
  2013 Actions   
 During 2013, we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $201 million of which $83 million, $37 million
and $81 million related to our IS GS, MST and Space Systems business segments. These charges reduced our net earnings by $130 million ($.40 per share) and primarily related to a plan we committed to in November 2013 to close and consolidate
certain facilities and reduce our total workforce by approximately 4,000 positions within our IS GS, MST and Space Systems business segments. These charges also include $30 million related to certain severance actions at our IS GS business
segment that occurred in the first quarter of 2013, which were subsequently paid in 2013.    The November 2013 plan resulted
from a strategic review of facility capacity and future workload projections for these businesses and is intended to better align our organization and cost structure and improve the affordability of our products and services given the changes in
U.S. Government spending as well as the rapidly changing competitive and economic landscape. Upon separation, terminated employees receive lump-sum severance payments primarily based on years of service. As of December 31, 2014, we have paid
approximately $107 million in severance payments associated with this action, of which approximately $92 million was paid during the year ended December 31, 2014. The remaining severance payments are expected to be paid through the middle of
2015.    We also expect to incur total accelerated costs (e.g., accelerated depreciation expense related to long-lived
assets at the sites to be closed) and incremental costs (e.g., relocation of equipment and other employee related costs) of approximately $15 million, $50 million and $175 million at our IS GS, MST and Space Systems business segments through the
completion of this plan in 2015. As of December 31, 2014, we have incurred total accelerated and incremental costs of approximately $110 million, most of which was incurred during the year ended December 31, 2014. The accelerated and
incremental costs are recorded as incurred in cost of sales on our Statements of Earnings and included in the respective business segment s results of operations. We expect to recover a substantial amount of the restructuring charges through
the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government and other customers, with the impact included in the respective business segment s results of operations. Of the total accelerated and incremental costs to be incurred mentioned
above, we have recovered approximately $50 million in 2014 and expect to recover approximately $50 million in 2015. Also, we expect the restructuring charges will reduce our 2015 cash flow from operations by approximately $170 million, mostly due to
expected incremental costs in 2015.     2012 Actions   
 During 2012, we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $48 million of which $25 million related to our
Aeronautics business segment and $23 million related to the reorganization of our former Electronic Systems business segment. These charges reduced our net earnings by $31 million ($.09 per share) and consisted of severance costs associated with the
elimination of certain positions through either voluntary or involuntary actions. These severance actions resulted from cost reduction initiatives to better align our organization with changing economic conditions. Upon separation, terminated
employees received lump-sum severance payments primarily based on years of service, all of which were paid in 2013.     Other Unallocated, Net   
 Other unallocated, net primarily includes the FAS/CAS pension adjustment as described in the Business Segment Results of
Operations section below, stock-based compensation and other corporate costs. These items are not allocated to the business segments and, therefore, are excluded from the cost of sales for products and services. Other unallocated, net was $132
million of income for 2014, compared to $841 million and $1.1 billion of expense in 2013 and 2012.    The fluctuation
between each respective period was primarily attributable to the change in the FAS/CAS pension adjustment to income of $376 million for 2014 compared to expense of $482 million and $830 million for 2013 and 2012, partially offset by fluctuations in
other costs associated with various corporate items, none of which were individually significant. The changes in the FAS/CAS pension adjustment between the periods were attributable to various items impacting the calculations of financial accounting
standards (FAS) pension expense and U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) pension cost. FAS pension expense in 2014 was less than 2013 and 2012 due to higher discount rates used to calculate our qualified defined benefit obligations and
net periodic benefit cost. Additionally, beginning in the quarter ended September 28, 2014, FAS pension expense was reduced by the June 2014 plan amendments to certain of our defined benefit pension plans to freeze future retirement benefits,
partially offset by the impact of using new longevity (also known  
      32  

Table of Contents  

as mortality) assumptions (Note 9). The higher CAS pension cost in 2014 compared to 2013 and 2012 reflects the impact of phasing in CAS Harmonization, partially offset by the effect of higher
interest rates required by the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 (HATFA), which was enacted on August 8, 2014. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Postretirement Benefit Plans  for a discussion of HATFA and CAS
Harmonization and the impact on our CAS pension cost.     Other Income, Net   
 Other income, net primarily includes our share of earnings or losses from equity method investees. Other income, net for 2014
was $337 million, compared to $318 million in 2013 and $238 million in 2012. The changes between years primarily were due to fluctuations in earnings from equity method investees in our Aeronautics and Space Systems business segments, as discussed
in the  Business Segment Results of Operations  section below.     Interest Expense   
 Interest expense for 2014 was $340 million, compared to $350 million in 2013 and $383 million in 2012. The decrease from 2012
to 2013 was primarily attributable to lower interest rates on our outstanding debt from the debt exchange that occurred in December 2012.  
  Other Non-Operating Income, Net   
 Other non-operating income, net in 2014 was comparable to 2013. Other non-operating income, net decreased $21 million from
2012 to 2013 primarily due to a gain from the sale of an investment in 2012.     Income Tax Expense   
 Our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 31.3% for 2014, 29.0% for 2013 and 32.6% for 2012. The rates for
all periods benefited from tax deductions for U.S. manufacturing activities, deductions for dividends paid to our defined contribution plans with an employee stock ownership plan feature, and the retroactive reinstatement of the research and
development (R D) tax credit, which were partially offset by the unfavorable impacts of the non-cash goodwill impairment charges in 2014 and 2013.  
 The U.S. manufacturing deduction benefit for 2014 and 2013 reduced our effective tax rate by approximately two percentage
points as compared to 2012. The decrease between years occurred because our tax-deductible discretionary pension contributions of $2.5 billion in 2012, which reduced U.S. manufacturing deduction benefits by $59 million ($.18 per share), were
significantly higher than in 2014 and 2013.    In 2014, the R D tax credit was temporarily reinstated for one year,
retroactive to the beginning of 2014, which reduced our effective tax rate by 0.9 percentage point. In 2013, the R D tax credit was temporarily reinstated for two years, retroactive to the beginning of 2012. As a result, the effective income tax
rate for 2013 reflects the credit for all of 2013 and 2012, which reduced our effective tax rate by 1.8 percentage points. Since the R D tax credit again expired on December 31, 2014, this benefit will not be incorporated into the
Corporation s 2015 outlook or results unless and until legislation is enacted.    A limited amount of the non-cash
goodwill impairment charges will be deductible for tax purposes. Accordingly, the non-cash goodwill impairment charges increased our effective income tax rates by 0.6 percentage point for 2014 and 1.2 percentage points for 2013 (Note 1).  
 Future changes in tax law could significantly impact our provision for income taxes, the amount of taxes payable and our
deferred tax asset and liability balances. Recent proposals to lower the U.S. corporate income tax rate would require us to reduce our net deferred tax assets upon enactment of new tax legislation, with a corresponding material, one-time, non-cash
increase in income tax expense, but our income tax expense and payments would be materially reduced in subsequent years. Our net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $5.5 billion and $3.9 billion, based on a 35% Federal
statutory income tax rate, and primarily relate to our postretirement benefit plans. If legislation reducing the Federal statutory income tax rate to 25% had been enacted at December 31, 2014, our net deferred tax assets would have been reduced
by $1.6 billion and we would have recorded a corresponding one-time, non-cash increase in income tax expense of $1.6 billion. This additional expense would be less if the legislation phased in the tax rate reduction or if the final rate was higher
than 25%. The amount of net deferred tax assets will change periodically based on several factors, including the measurement of our postretirement benefit plan obligations and actual cash contributions to our postretirement benefit plans.  
      33  

Table of Contents  

   Net Earnings from Continuing Operations   
 We reported net earnings from continuing operations of $3.6 billion ($11.21 per share) in 2014, $3.0 billion ($9.04 per share)
in 2013 and $2.7 billion ($8.36 per share) in 2012. Both net earnings from continuing operations and earnings per share were affected by the factors mentioned above. Earnings per share also benefited from a net decrease of approximately five million
common shares outstanding from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 as a result of share repurchases, which were partially offset by share issuance under our stock-based awards and certain defined contribution plans.  
  Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations   
 Net earnings from discontinued operations for 2013 include a benefit of $31 million resulting from the resolution of certain
tax matters related to a business sold prior to 2013.      Business Segment Results of Operations    
 We operate in five business segments: Aeronautics, IS GS, MFC, MST and Space Systems. We organize our business segments
based on the nature of the products and services offered. Net sales of our business segments exclude intersegment sales as these activities are eliminated in consolidation.  
 Operating profit of our business segments includes our share of earnings or losses from equity method investees because the
operating activities of the equity method investees are closely aligned with the operations of our business segments. United Launch Alliance (ULA), which is part of our Space Systems business segment, is our primary equity method investee. Operating
profit of our business segments excludes the FAS/CAS pension adjustment described below; expense for stock-based compensation; the effects of items not considered part of management s evaluation of segment operating performance, such as charges
related to goodwill impairments (Note 1) and significant severance actions (Note 14); gains or losses from divestitures (Note 13); the effects of certain legal settlements; corporate costs not allocated to our business segments; and other
miscellaneous corporate activities. These items are included in the reconciling item  Unallocated items  between operating profit from our business segments and our consolidated operating profit.  
 Our business segments  results of operations include pension expense only as calculated under U.S. Government Cost
Accounting Standards, which we refer to as CAS pension cost. We recover CAS pension cost through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, the CAS pension cost is recognized in each of our business
segments  net sales and cost of sales. Since our consolidated financial statements must present pension expense calculated in accordance with FAS requirements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which we refer to as FAS
pension expense, the FAS/CAS pension adjustment increases or decreases the CAS pension cost recorded in our business segments  results of operations to equal the FAS pension expense. As a result, to the extent that CAS pension cost exceeds FAS
pension expense, which occurred for 2014, we have FAS/CAS pension income and, conversely, to the extent FAS pension expense exceeds CAS pension cost, which occurred for 2013 and 2012, we have FAS/CAS pension expense.  
      34  

Table of Contents  

  The operating results in the following tables exclude businesses included in
discontinued operations (Note 13) for all years presented. Summary operating results for each of our business segments were as follows (in millions):      

(a)   
   FAS pension expense in 2014 was less than in 2013 due to higher discount rates used to calculate our qualified defined benefit obligations and net
periodic benefit cost. Additionally, beginning in the quarter ended September 28, 2014, FAS pension expense was reduced by the June 2014 plan amendments to certain of our defined benefit pension plans to freeze future retirement benefits,
partially offset by the impact of using new longevity assumptions (Note 9).     

(b)   
   The higher CAS pension cost reflects the impact of phasing in CAS Harmonization, partially offset by the effect of higher interest rates required by
the HATFA, enacted on August 8, 2014. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Postretirement Benefit Plans  for a discussion of HATFA and CAS Harmonization and the impact on our CAS pension cost.     

(c)   
   We expect FAS/CAS pension income in 2015 of about $475 million as further discussed in the  Critical Accounting Policies  
Postretirement Benefit Plans  section below.     

(d)   
   We recognized non-cash goodwill impairment charges related to the Technical Services reporting unit within our MFC business segment in 2014 and
2013. For more information, see  Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies  of our consolidated financial statements.     

(e)   
   See  Note 14   Restructuring Charges  of our consolidated financial statements for information on charges related to certain
severance actions at our business segments and Corporate Headquarters. Severance charges for initiatives that are not significant are included in business segment operating profit.     
 The following segment discussions also include information relating to backlog for each segment. Backlog was approximately
$80.5 billion, $82.6 billion and $82.3 billion at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. These amounts included both funded backlog (firm orders for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer   Congress in the case
of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not yet been appropriated). Backlog does not include unexercised options or task orders to be issued under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity contracts.
Funded backlog was approximately $56.5 billion at December 31, 2014.    Management evaluates performance on our
contracts by focusing on net sales and operating profit and not by type or amount of operating expense. Consequently, our discussion of business segment performance focuses on net sales and operating profit, consistent with our approach for managing
the business. This approach is consistent throughout the life cycle of our contracts, as management assesses the bidding of each contract by focusing on net sales and operating profit and monitors performance on our contracts in a similar manner
through their completion.  
      35  

Table of Contents  

  We regularly provide customers with reports of our costs as the contract
progresses. The cost information in the reports is accumulated in a manner specified by the requirements of each contract. For example, cost data provided to a customer for a product would typically align to the subcomponents of that product (such
as a wing-box on an aircraft) and for services would align to the type of work being performed (such as help-desk support). Our contracts generally are cost-based, which allows for the recovery of costs in the pricing of our products and services.
Most of our contracts are bid and negotiated with our customers under circumstances in which we are required to disclose our estimated total costs to provide the product or service. This approach for negotiating contracts with our U.S. Government
customers generally allows for the recovery of our costs. We also may enter into long-term supply contracts for certain materials or components to coincide with the production schedule of certain products and to ensure their availability at known
unit prices.    Many of our contracts span several years and include highly complex technical requirements. At the outset of
a contract, we identify and monitor risks to the achievement of the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract and assess the effects of those risks on our estimates of total costs to complete the contract. The estimates consider the
technical requirements (e.g., a newly-developed product versus a mature product), the schedule and associated tasks (e.g., the number and type of milestone events) and costs (e.g., material, labor, subcontractor, overhead and the estimated costs to
fulfill our industrial cooperation agreements required under certain contracts with international customers). The initial profit booking rate of each contract considers risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements, schedule
and costs in the initial estimated total costs to complete the contract. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract
which decreases the estimated total costs to complete the contract. Conversely, our profit booking rates may decrease if the estimated total costs to complete the contract increase. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance
of the contract and may affect the profit booking rate.    We have a number of programs that are designated as classified by
the U.S. Government which cannot be specifically described. The operating results of these classified programs are included in our consolidated and business segment results and are subjected to the same oversight and internal controls as our other
programs.    Our net sales are primarily derived from long-term contracts for products and services provided to the U.S.
Government as well as FMS contracted through the U.S. Government. We account for these contracts, as well as product contracts with non-U.S. Government customers, using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which represent substantially
all of our net sales. We derive our remaining net sales from contracts to provide services to non-U.S. Government customers, which we account for under the services method of accounting.  
 Under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, we record sales on contracts based upon our progress towards
completion on a particular contract as well as our estimate of the profit to be earned at completion. Cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the payment of allowable costs plus a fee. For fixed-priced contracts, net sales and cost of sales are
recognized as products are delivered or as costs are incurred. Due to the nature of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, changes in our cost of sales are typically accompanied by a related change in our net sales.  
 Changes in net sales and operating profit generally are expressed in terms of volume. Changes in volume refer to increases or
decreases in sales or operating profit resulting from varying production activity levels, deliveries or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes in segment operating profit are typically based on the current profit booking rate for a
particular contract.    In addition, comparability of our segment sales, operating profit and operating margins may be
impacted favorably or unfavorably by changes in profit booking rates on our contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Increases in the profit booking rates, typically referred to as risk retirements, usually
relate to revisions in the estimated total costs that reflect improved conditions on a particular contract. Conversely, conditions on a particular contract may deteriorate resulting in an increase in the estimated total costs to complete and a
reduction in the profit booking rate. Increases or decreases in profit booking rates are recognized in the current period and reflect the inception-to-date effect of such changes. Segment operating profit and margins may also be impacted favorably
or unfavorably by other items. Favorable items may include the positive resolution of contractual matters, cost recoveries on restructuring charges and insurance recoveries. Unfavorable items may include the adverse resolution of contractual
matters; certain asset impairments; restructuring charges, except for significant severance actions as mentioned above which are excluded from segment operating results; and reserves for disputes. Segment operating profit and items such as risk
retirements, reductions of profit booking rates or other matters are presented net of state income taxes.   Our consolidated
net adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, net of state income taxes, increased segment operating profit by approximately $1.8 billion, $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion for
 
      36  

Table of Contents  

2014, 2013 and 2012. The decrease in our consolidated net adjustments for 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily due to a decrease in profit booking rate adjustments at our Aeronautics, MFC and MST
business segments. The increase in our consolidated net adjustments for 2013 as compared to 2012 was primarily due to an increase in profit booking rate adjustments at our MST and MFC business segments and, to a lesser extent, the increase in the
favorable resolution of contractual matters for the corporation. The consolidated net adjustments for 2014 are inclusive of approximately $650 million in unfavorable items, which include reserves recorded on certain training and logistics solutions
programs at MST and net warranty reserve adjustments for various programs (including JASSM and GMLRS) at MFC as described in the respective business segment s results of operations below. The consolidated net adjustments for 2013 and 2012 are
inclusive of approximately $600 million and $500 million in unfavorable items, which include a significant profit reduction on the F-35 development contract in both years, as well as a significant profit reduction on the C-5 program in 2013, each as
described in our Aeronautics business segment s results of operations discussion below.     Aeronautics   
 Our Aeronautics business segment is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment,
support and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies. Aeronautics  major programs include the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter, C-130 Hercules,
F-16 Fighting Falcon, F-22 Raptor and the C-5M Super Galaxy. Aeronautics  operating results included the following (in millions):      
    2014 compared to 2013   
 Aeronautics  net sales for 2014 increased $797 million, or 6%, compared to 2013. The increase was primarily attributable
to higher net sales of approximately $790 million for F-35 production contracts due to increased volume and sustainment activities; about $55 million for the F-16 program due to increased deliveries (17 aircraft delivered in 2014 compared to 13
delivered in 2013) partially offset by contract mix; and approximately $45 million for the F-22 program due to increased risk retirements. The increases were partially offset by lower net sales of approximately $55 million for the F-35 development
contract due to decreased volume, partially offset by the absence in 2014 of the downward revision to the profit booking rate that occurred in 2013; and about $40 million for the C-130 program due to fewer deliveries (24 aircraft delivered in 2014
compared to 25 delivered in 2013) and decreased sustainment activities, partially offset by contract mix.  
 Aeronautics  operating profit for 2014 increased $37 million, or 2%, compared to 2013. The increase was primarily
attributable to higher operating profit of approximately $85 million for the F-35 development contract due to the absence in 2014 of the downward revision to the profit booking rate that occurred in 2013; about $75 million for the F-22 program due
to increased risk retirements; approximately $50 million for the C-130 program due to increased risk retirements and contract mix, partially offset by fewer deliveries; and about $25 million for the C-5 program due to the absence in 2014 of the
downward revisions to the profit booking rate that occurred in 2013. The increases were partially offset by lower operating profit of approximately $130 million for the F-16 program due to decreased risk retirements, partially offset by increased
deliveries; and about $70 million for sustainment activities due to decreased risk retirements and volume. Operating profit was comparable for F-35 production contracts as higher volume was offset by lower risk retirements.  
 Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $105
million lower for 2014 compared to 2013.     2013 compared to 2012   
 Aeronautics  net sales for 2013 decreased $830 million, or 6%, compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily attributable
to lower net sales of approximately $530 million for the F-16 program due to fewer aircraft deliveries (13 aircraft delivered in 2013 compared to 37 delivered in 2012) partially offset by aircraft configuration mix; about $385 million for the C-130
program due to fewer aircraft deliveries (25 aircraft delivered in 2013 compared to 34 in 2012) partially offset by increased sustainment activities; approximately $255 million for the F-22 program, which includes about $205 million due to
 
      37  

Table of Contents  

decreased production volume as final aircraft deliveries were completed during the second quarter of 2012 and $50 million from the favorable resolution of a contractual matter during the second
quarter of 2012; and about $270 million for various other programs (primarily sustainment activities) due to decreased volume. The decreases were partially offset by higher net sales of about $295 million for F-35 production contracts due to
increased production volume and risk retirements; approximately $245 million for the  C-5  program due to increased aircraft deliveries (six aircraft delivered in 2013 compared to four in 2012) and other
modernization activities; and about $70 million for the F-35 development contract due to increased volume.  
 Aeronautics  operating profit for 2013 decreased $87 million, or 5%, compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily
attributable to lower operating profit of about $85 million for the F-22 program, which includes approximately $50 million from the favorable resolution of a contractual matter in the second quarter of 2012 and about $35 million due to decreased
risk retirements and production volume; approximately $70 million for the C-130 program due to lower risk retirements and fewer deliveries partially offset by increased sustainment activities; about $65 million for the C-5 program due to the
inception-to-date effect of reducing the profit booking rate in the third quarter of 2013 and lower risk retirements; approximately $35 million for the F-16 program due to fewer aircraft deliveries partially offset by increased sustainment activity
and aircraft configuration mix. The decreases were partially offset by higher operating profit of approximately $180 million for F-35 production contracts due to increased risk retirements and volume. Operating profit was comparable for the F-35
development contract and included adjustments of approximately $85 million to reflect the inception-to-date impacts of the downward revisions to the profit booking rate in both 2013 and 2012. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit
booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $75 million lower for 2013 compared to 2012.     Backlog   
 Backlog decreased slightly in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to lower orders on F-16 and F-22 programs. Backlog decreased
in 2013 compared to 2012 mainly due to lower orders on F-16, C-5 and C-130 programs, partially offset by higher orders on the F-35 program.     Trends
    We expect Aeronautics  2015 net sales to be comparable or slightly behind 2014 due to a decline in F-16
deliveries as well as a decline in F-35 development activity, partially offset by an increase in production contracts. Operating profit is also expected to decrease in the low single digit range, due primarily to contract mix, resulting in a slight
decrease in operating margins between years.     Information Systems   Global Solutions   
 Our IS GS business segment provides advanced technology systems and expertise, integrated information technology solutions
and management services across a broad spectrum of applications for civil, defense, intelligence and other government customers. IS GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts as compared to our other business segments. IS GS has been
impacted by the continued downturn in certain federal agencies  information technology budgets and increased re-competition on existing contracts coupled with the fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded
primarily on the basis of price. IS GS  operating results included the following (in millions):      
    2014 compared to 2013   
 IS GS  net sales decreased $579 million, or 7%, for 2014 compared to 2013. The decrease was primarily attributable to
lower net sales of about $645 million for 2014 due to the wind-down or completion of certain programs, driven by reductions in direct warfighter support (including JIEDDO and PTDS) and defense budgets tied to command and control programs; and
approximately $490 million for 2014 due to a decline in volume for various ongoing programs, which reflects lower funding levels and programs impacted by in-theater force reductions. The decreases were partially offset by higher net sales of about
$550 million for 2014 due to the start-up of new programs, growth in recently awarded programs and integration of recently acquired companies.  
      38  

Table of Contents  

  IS GS  operating profit decreased $60 million, or 8%, for 2014 compared
to 2013. The decrease was primarily attributable to the activities mentioned above for sales, lower risk retirements and reserves recorded on an international program, partially offset by severance recoveries related to the restructuring announced
in November 2013 of approximately $20 million for 2014. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments, were approximately $30 million lower for 2014 compared to 2013.  
  2013 compared to 2012   
 IS GS  net sales decreased $479 million, or 5%, for 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was attributable to lower net
sales of about $495 million due to decreased volume on various programs (command and control programs for classified customers, NGI and ERAM programs); and approximately $320 million due to the completion of certain programs (such as Total
Information Processing Support Services, the Transportation Worker Identification Credential and the Outsourcing Desktop Initiative for NASA). The decrease was partially offset by higher net sales of about $340 million due to the start-up of certain
programs (such as the DISA GSM-O and the National Science Foundation Antarctic Support).    IS GS  operating profit
decreased $49 million, or 6%, for 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower operating profit of about $55 million due to certain programs nearing the end of their life cycles, partially offset by higher operating profit
of approximately $15 million due to the start-up of certain programs. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were comparable for 2013 compared to 2012.  
  Backlog     Backlog
increased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to several multi-year international awards and various U.S. multi-year extensions. This increase was partially offset by declining activities on various direct warfighter support and command
and control programs impacted by defense budget reductions. Backlog decreased in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to lower orders on several programs (such as ERAM and NGI), higher sales on certain programs (the National Science Foundation
Antarctic Support and the DISA GSM-O) and declining activities on several smaller programs primarily due to the continued downturn in federal information technology budgets.  
  Trends     We expect
IS GS  net sales to decline in 2015 in the low to mid single digit percentage range as compared to 2014, primarily driven by the continued downturn in federal information technology budgets, an increasingly competitive environment,
including the disaggregation of existing contracts, and new contract award delays, partially offset by increased sales resulting from acquisitions that occurred during the year. Operating profit is expected to decline in the low double digit
percentage range in 2015 primarily driven by volume and an increase in intangible amortization from 2014 acquisition activity, resulting in 2015 margins that are lower than 2014 results.  
  Missiles and Fire Control   
 Our MFC business segment provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon
systems; logistics and other technical services; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; and manned and unmanned ground vehicles. MFC s major programs include PAC-3, THAAD,
Multiple Launch Rocket System, Hellfire, JASSM, Javelin, Apache, Sniper   , Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night
(LANTIRN   ) and SOF CLSS. MFC s operating results included the following (in millions):      
    2014 compared to 2013   
 MFC s net sales for 2014 decreased $77 million, or 1%, compared to 2013. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower
net sales of approximately $385 million for technical services programs due to decreased volume reflecting market pressures; and about $115 million for tactical missile programs due to fewer deliveries (primarily High Mobility Artillery
 
      39  

Table of Contents  

Rocket System and Army Tactical Missile System). The decreases were partially offset by higher net sales of approximately $180 million for air and missile defense programs primarily due to
increased volume for THAAD; about $115 million for fire control programs due to increased deliveries (including Apache); and about $125 million for various other programs due to increased volume.  
 MFC s operating profit for 2014 decreased $73 million, or 5%, compared to 2013. The decrease was primarily attributable
to lower operating profit of about $45 million for technical services programs due to decreased volume and reserves recorded on certain programs; about $20 million for tactical missile programs due to net warranty reserve adjustments for various
programs (including JASSM and GMLRS) and fewer deliveries; and approximately $45 million for various other programs due to lower risk retirements. The decreases were partially offset by higher operating profit of approximately $20 million for air
and missile defense programs due to increased volume (primarily THAAD and PAC-3); and about $15 million for fire control programs due to increased deliveries (primarily Apache), partially offset by lower risk retirements (primarily Sniper   ). Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $100 million lower for 2014 compared to 2013.  
  2013 compared to 2012   
 MFC s net sales for 2013 increased $300 million, or 4%, compared to 2012. The increase was primarily attributable to
higher net sales of approximately $450 million for air and missile defense programs (THAAD and PAC-3) due to increased production volume and deliveries; about $70 million for fire control programs due to net increased deliveries and volume; and
approximately $55 million for tactical missile programs due to net increased deliveries. The increases were partially offset by lower net sales of about $275 million for various technical services programs due to lower volume driven by the
continuing impact of defense budget reductions and related competitive pressures. The increase for fire control programs was primarily attributable to increased deliveries on the Sniper    and
LANTIRN    programs, increased volume on the SOF CLSS program, partially offset by lower volume on Longbow Fire Control Radar and other programs. The increase for tactical missile programs was
primarily attributable to increased deliveries on JASSM and other programs, partially offset by fewer deliveries on GMLRS and Javelin programs.  
 MFC s operating profit for 2013 increased $175 million, or 14%, compared to 2012. The increase was primarily attributable
to higher operating profit of approximately $85 million for air and missile defense programs (THAAD and PAC-3) due to increased risk retirements and volume; about $85 million for fire control programs (Sniper   , LANTIRN    and Apache) due to increased risk retirements and higher volume; and approximately $75 million for tactical missile programs
(Hellfire and various programs) due to increased risk retirements. The increases were partially offset by lower operating profit of about $45 million for the resolution of contractual matters in the second quarter of 2012; and approximately $15
million for various technical services programs due to lower volume partially offset by increased risk retirements. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $100 million
higher for 2013 compared to 2012.     Backlog   
 Backlog decreased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to lower orders on THAAD, fire control systems programs and technical
services programs, partially offset by higher orders on certain tactical missile programs and PAC-3. Backlog increased in 2013 compared to 2012 mainly due to higher orders on the THAAD program and lower sales volume compared to new orders on certain
fire control systems programs in 2013, partially offset by lower orders on technical services programs and certain tactical missile programs.     Trends
    We expect MFC s net sales to decline in the mid single digit percentage range in 2015 as compared to 2014,
primarily due to a decline in the services business as a result of the increased competitive environment and a slight decline in our Air and Missile Defense business, specifically THAAD and PAC-3 volume. Operating profit is expected to decrease in
the high single digit percentage range, driven by reduced volume and fewer risk retirements in 2015 compared to 2014. Accordingly, operating profit margin is expected to decline from 2014 levels.  
      40  

Table of Contents  

   Mission Systems and Training   
 Our MST business segment provides ship and submarine mission and combat systems; mission systems and sensors for rotary and
fixed-wing aircraft; sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; littoral combat ships; simulation and training services; and unmanned systems and technologies. MST s major programs include Aegis Combat System (Aegis), Littoral
Combat Ship (LCS), MH-60, TPQ-53 Radar System and MK-41 Vertical Launching System. MST s operating results included the following (in millions):      
    2014 compared to 2013   
 MST s net sales for 2014 were comparable to 2013. Net sales decreased by approximately $85 million for undersea systems
programs due to decreased volume and deliveries; and about $55 million related to the settlements of contract cost matters on certain programs (including a portion of the terminated presidential helicopter program) in 2013 that were not repeated in
2014. The decreases were offset by higher net sales of approximately $80 million for integrated warfare systems and sensors programs due to increased volume (primarily Space Fence); and approximately $40 million for training and logistics solutions
programs due to increased deliveries (primarily Close Combat Tactical Trainer).    MST s operating profit for 2014
decreased $62 million, or 7%, compared to 2013. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower operating profit of approximately $120 million related to the settlements of contract cost matters on certain programs (including a portion of the
terminated presidential helicopter program) in 2013 that were not repeated in 2014; and approximately $45 million due to higher reserves recorded on certain training and logistics solutions programs. The decreases were partially offset by higher
operating profit of approximately $45 million for performance matters and reserves recorded in 2013 that were not repeated in 2014; and about $60 million for various programs due to increased risk retirements (including MH-60 and radar surveillance
programs). Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $50 million lower for 2014 compared to 2013.  
  2013 compared to 2012   
 MST s net sales for 2013 decreased $426 million, or 6%, compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily attributable to
lower net sales of approximately $275 million for various ship and aviation systems programs due to lower volume (primarily PTDS as final surveillance system deliveries occurred during the second quarter of 2012); about $195 million for various
integrated warfare systems and sensors programs (primarily Naval systems) due to lower volume; approximately $65 million for various training and logistics programs due to lower volume; and about $55 million for the Aegis program due to lower
volume. The decreases were partially offset by higher net sales of about $155 million for the LCS program due to increased volume.  
 MST s operating profit for 2013 increased $168 million, or 23%, compared to 2012. The increase was primarily attributable
to higher operating profit of approximately $120 million related to the settlement of contract cost matters on certain programs (including a portion of the terminated presidential helicopter program); about $55 million for integrated warfare systems
and sensors programs (primarily radar and Halifax class modernization programs) due to increased risk retirements; and approximately $30 million for undersea systems programs due to increased risk retirements. The increases were partially offset by
lower operating profit of about $55 million for training and logistics programs, primarily due to the recording of approximately $30 million of charges mostly related to lower-of-cost-or-market considerations; and about $25 million for ship and
aviation systems programs (primarily PTDS) due to lower risk retirements and volume. Operating profit related to the LCS program was comparable. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were
approximately $170 million higher for 2013 compared to 2012.     Backlog   
 Backlog increased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to higher orders on new program starts (such as Space Fence). Backlog
increased slightly in 2013 compared to 2012 mainly due to higher orders and lower sales on integrated warfare system and sensors programs (primarily Aegis) and lower sales on various service programs, partially offset by lower orders on ship and
aviation systems (primarily MH-60).  
      41  

Table of Contents  

   Trends   
 We expect MST s 2015 net sales to be comparable to 2014 net sales, with the increased volume from new program starts,
specifically Space Fence and the Combat Rescue and Presidential Helicopter programs, offset by a decline in volume due to the wind-down or completion of certain programs. Operating profit is expected to decline in the mid single digit percentage
range from 2014 levels, driven by a reduction in expected risk retirements in 2015. Accordingly, operating profit margin is expected to slightly decline from 2014 levels.  
  Space Systems   
 Our Space Systems business segment is engaged in the research and development, design, engineering and production of
satellites, strategic and defensive missile systems and space transportation systems. Space Systems is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space Systems  major programs
include the Space Based Infrared System (SBIRS), AEHF, GPS-III, Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite R-Series (GOES-R), MUOS, Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile (FBM) and Orion. Operating profit for our Space Systems business segment
includes our share of earnings for our investment in ULA, which provides expendable launch services to the U.S. Government. Space Systems  operating results included the following (in millions):  
   
    2014 compared to 2013   
 Space Systems  net sales for 2014 increased $107 million, or 1%, compared to 2013. The increase was primarily
attributable to higher net sales of approximately $340 million for the Orion program due to increased volume (primarily the first unmanned test flight of the Orion MPCV); and about $145 million for commercial space transportation programs due to
launch-related activities. The increases were offset by lower net sales of approximately $335 million for government satellite programs due to decreased volume (primarily AEHF, GPS-III and MUOS); and about $45 million for various other programs due
to decreased volume.    Space Systems  operating profit for 2014 was comparable to 2013. Operating profit decreased by
approximately $20 million for government satellite programs due to lower volume (primarily AEHF and GPS-III), partially offset by increased risk retirements (primarily MUOS); and about $20 million due to decreased equity earnings for joint ventures.
The decreases were offset by higher operating profit of approximately $30 million for the Orion program due to increased volume. Operating profit was reduced by approximately $40 million for charges, net of recoveries, related to the restructuring
action announced in November 2013. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $10 million lower for 2014 compared to 2013.  
  2013 compared to 2012   
 Space Systems  net sales for 2013 decreased $389 million, or 5%, compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily
attributable to lower net sales of approximately $305 million for commercial satellite programs due to fewer deliveries (zero delivered during 2013 compared to two for 2012); and about $290 million for the Orion program due to lower volume. The
decreases were partially offset by higher net sales of approximately $130 million for government satellite programs due to net increased volume; and about $65 million for strategic and defensive missile programs (primarily FBM) due to increased
volume and risk retirements. The increase for government satellite programs was primarily attributable to higher volume on AEHF and other programs, partially offset by lower volume on GOES-R, MUOS and SBIRS programs.  
 Space Systems  operating profit for 2013 decreased $38 million, or 4%, compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily
attributable to lower operating profit of approximately $50 million for the Orion program due to lower volume and risk retirements and about $30 million for government satellite programs due to decreased risk retirements, which were partially offset
by higher equity earnings from joint ventures of approximately $35 million. The decrease in operating profit for government satellite programs was primarily attributable to lower risk retirements for MUOS, GPS III and other programs, partially
offset by higher risk retirements for the SBIRS and AEHF programs. Operating profit for 2013 included about $15 million of charges, net of recoveries, related to the November 2013 restructuring plan. Adjustments not related to volume, including net
profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, were approximately $15 million lower for 2013 compared to 2012.  
      42  

Table of Contents  

   Equity earnings   
 Total equity earnings recognized by Space Systems (primarily ULA in 2014 and 2013) represented approximately $280 million and
$300 million, or 27% and 29% of this business segment s operating profit during 2014 and 2013. During 2012, total equity earnings recognized by Space Systems from ULA, United Space Alliance and the U.K. Atomic Weapons Establishment joint
venture represented approximately $265 million, or 24%, of this business segment s operating profit.     Backlog   
 Backlog decreased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to lower orders and higher sales on the Orion program, partially
offset by higher orders on SBIRS. Backlog increased in 2013 compared to 2012 mainly due to higher orders on the Orion program, partially offset by lower orders on government satellite programs (primarily AEHF).  
  Trends     We expect Space
Systems  net sales to decline in the mid single digit percentage range in 2015 as compared to 2014; primarily due to lower delivery based sales in 2015. Operating profit is expected to decline in the low-double digit percentage range, primarily
driven by lower equity earnings in 2015 compared to 2014. As a result, operating profit margin is expected to decline between the years.  
   Liquidity and Cash Flows    
 We have a balanced cash deployment strategy to enhance stockholder value and position ourselves to take advantage of new
business opportunities when they arise. Consistent with that strategy, we have continued to invest in our business, including capital expenditures, independent research and development and made selective business acquisitions, while returning cash
to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases, and managing our debt levels, maturities and interest rates.    We
have generated strong operating cash flows, which have been the primary source of funding for our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service and repayments, dividends, share repurchases and postretirement benefit plan
contributions. Our strong operating cash flows enabled our Board of Directors to approve two key cash deployment initiatives in September 2014. First, we increased our quarterly dividend rate by 13% to $1.50 per share. Second, the Board of Directors
approved a $2.0 billion increase to our share repurchase program. Inclusive of this increase, the total remaining authorization for future common share repurchases under our program was $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2014. Further, based on
our current cash projections, in October 2014 we announced a new cash deployment initiative in which we plan to reduce our total outstanding share count to below 300 million shares over the next three years, market conditions and our fiduciary
obligations permitting.    We have accessed the capital markets on limited occasions, as needed or when opportunistic. We
expect our cash from operations will continue to be sufficient to support our operations and anticipated capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. As mentioned in the  Capital Resources  section below, we have financing resources
available to fund potential cash outflows that are less predictable or more discretionary, should they occur. We also have access to credit markets, if needed, for liquidity or general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, our revolving
credit facility or the ability to issue commercial paper, and letters of credit to support customer advance payments and for other trade finance purposes such as guaranteeing our performance on particular contracts.  
 Cash received from customers, either from the payment of invoices for work performed or for advances in excess of costs
incurred, is our primary source of cash. We generally do not begin work on contracts until funding is appropriated by the customer. Billing timetables and payment terms on our contracts vary based on a number of factors, including the contract type.
We generally bill and collect cash more frequently under cost-reimbursable and time-and-materials contracts, which together represent approximately half of the sales we recorded in 2014, as we are authorized to bill as the costs are incurred or work
is performed. A number of our fixed-price contracts may provide for performance-based payments, which allow us to bill and collect cash as we perform on the contract. The amount of performance-based payments and the related milestones are
encompassed in the negotiation of each contract. The timing of such payments may differ from our incurrence of costs related to our contract performance, thereby affecting our cash flows.  
 The U.S. Government has indicated that it would consider progress payments as the baseline for negotiating payment terms on
fixed-price contracts, rather than performance-based payments. In contrast to negotiated performance-based  
      43  

Table of Contents  

payment terms, progress payment provisions correspond to a percentage of the amount of costs incurred during the performance of the contract. While the total amount of cash collected on a
contract is the same, performance-based payments have had a more favorable impact on the timing of our cash flows. In addition, our cash flows may be affected if the U.S. Government decides to withhold payments on our billings. While the impact of
withholding payments delays the receipt of cash, the cumulative amount of cash collected during the life of the contract will not vary.  
 The majority of our capital expenditures for 2014 and those planned for 2015 are for equipment, facilities infrastructure and
information technology. Expenditures for equipment and facilities infrastructure are generally incurred to support new and existing programs across all of our business segments. For example, we have projects underway in our Aeronautics business
segment for facilities and equipment to support higher production of the F-35 combat aircraft. In addition, we have projects underway to modernize certain of our facilities, inclusive of our efforts to consolidate and reduce leased facilities. We
also incur capital expenditures for information technology to support programs and general enterprise information technology infrastructure, inclusive of costs for the development or purchase of internal-use software.  
 The following table provides a summary of our cash flow information followed by a discussion of the key elements (in
millions):      
    Operating Activities   
  2014 compared to 2013   
 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $680 million in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to higher tax
payments, net of refunds received and increases in working capital. Our federal and foreign income tax payments, net of refunds received, were approximately $760 million higher in 2014 due to an increase in net income and lower refunds received in
2014 (attributable to timing of discretionary pension contributions made during the fourth quarter of 2012). The decrease of $274 million in cash provided by working capital (defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable and customer
advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred) was primarily attributed to lower cash receipts related to accounts receivable, primarily timing on the F-35 production contracts (including amounts received in 2013 from resolving U.S. Government
contractual withholds that were not repeated in 2014). Partially offsetting the decreases in operating cash flows were lower pension contributions in 2014. We made $2.0 billion in contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2014,
compared to $2.25 billion in 2013. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Postretirement Benefit Plans  (under the caption  Funding Considerations ) for discussion of future postretirement benefit plan funding.  
  2013 compared to 2012   
 Net cash provided by operating activities increased $3.0 billion in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to lower pension
contributions, a lower increase in working capital, a tax refund in 2013 as discussed below and improved operating results. We made $2.25 billion in contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans during 2013, compared to $3.6 billion
during 2012. The $1.0 billion decline in the growth of working capital (defined as receivables and inventories less accounts payable and customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred) was attributable to higher cash receipts related to
accounts receivable, primarily on F-35 production contracts (including amounts from resolving U.S. Government contractual withholds). Partially offsetting the improved accounts receivable collections were higher payments to suppliers, primarily on
F-35 production contracts. In addition, there was lower growth in inventories in 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily due to the timing of advance payments applied to inventory. We made tax payments, net of refunds received, of $787 million during
2013, compared to $890 million during 2012.  
      44  

Table of Contents  

   Investing Activities   
 Net cash used for investing activities increased $602 million in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to increased acquisition
activities in 2014. Acquisition activities include both the acquisition of businesses and investments in affiliates. We paid $898 million in 2014 for acquisition activities, primarily related to the acquisitions of Zeta, Systems Made Simple, and
Industrial Defender (Note 13). In 2013, we paid $269 million for acquisition activities, primarily related to the acquisition of Amor Group (Note 13). In 2012, we paid $259 million for acquisition activities, primarily related to the acquisitions of
Chandler/May, CDL and Procerus (Note 13). Capital expenditures amounted to $845 million in 2014, $836 million in 2013 and $942 million in 2012.  
  Financing Activities   
 Net cash used for financing activities increased $608 million in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to decreased proceeds
from stock option exercises in 2014, higher dividends paid and increased repurchases of common stock, partially offset by the repayment of long-term notes in 2013.  
 We paid dividends totaling $1.8 billion ($5.49 per share) in 2014, $1.5 billion ($4.78 per share) in 2013 and $1.4 billion
($4.15 per share) in 2012. We have increased our quarterly dividend rate in each of the last three years, including a 13% increase in the quarterly dividend rate in the fourth quarter of 2014. We declared quarterly dividends of $1.33 per share
during each of the first three quarters of 2014 and $1.50 per share for the last quarter; $1.15 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2013 and $1.33 per share for the last quarter; and $1.00 per share during each of the first three
quarters of 2012 and $1.15 per share for the last quarter.    We paid $1.9 billion, $1.8 billion and $1.0 billion to
repurchase 11.5 million, 16.2 million and 11.1 million shares of our common stock during 2014, 2013 and 2012.  
 Cash received from the issuance of our common stock in connection with employee stock option exercises during 2014, 2013 and
2012 totaled $308 million, $827 million and $440 million. The exercises resulted in the issuance of 3.7 million shares, 10.0 million shares and 6.7 million shares of our common stock.  
 In 2013, we repaid $150 million of long-term notes with a fixed interest rate of 7.38% due to their scheduled maturities. In
2012, we paid $225 million to complete an exchange of debt due to the low interest rate environment.      Capital Structure, Resources
and Other      At December 31, 2014, we held cash and cash equivalents of $1.4 billion. As of December 31,
2014, approximately $500 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. by foreign subsidiaries. Although those balances are generally available to fund ordinary business operations without legal or other restrictions, a
significant portion is not immediately available to fund U.S. operations unless repatriated. Our intention is to permanently reinvest earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. While we do not intend to do so, if this cash had been
repatriated at the end of 2014, we estimate that about $55 million of U.S. federal income tax would have been due after considering foreign tax credits.  
 Our outstanding debt, net of unamortized discounts, amounted to $6.2 billion and mainly is in the form of publicly-issued
notes that bear interest at fixed rates. As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in our debt and credit agreements.  
 In August 2014, we entered into a new $1.5 billion revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks and concurrently
terminated our existing $1.5 billion revolving credit facility which was scheduled to expire in August 2016. The new credit facility expires in August 2019. We may request and the banks may grant, at their discretion, an increase to the new credit
facility up to an additional $500 million. The credit facility also includes a sublimit of up to $300 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. There were no borrowings outstanding under the new credit facility through
December 31, 2014. Borrowings under the new credit facility would be unsecured and bear interest at rates based, at our option, on a Eurodollar Rate or a Base Rate, as defined in the new credit facility. Each bank s obligation to make
loans under the new credit facility is subject to, among other things, our compliance with various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and certain of our subsidiaries  ability to encumber assets
and a covenant not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the new credit facility. The leverage ratio covenant excludes the adjustments recognized in stockholders  equity related to postretirement benefit plans. As of
December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in the credit facility, as well as in our debt agreements.  
      45  

Table of Contents  

  We have agreements in place with financial institutions to provide for the
issuance of commercial paper. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2014. If we were to issue commercial paper, the borrowings would be supported by the credit facility. We also have an
effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to provide for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of debt securities.  
 We actively seek to finance our business in a manner that preserves financial flexibility while minimizing borrowing costs to
the extent practicable. We review changes in financial market and economic conditions to manage the types, amounts and maturities of our indebtedness. We may at times refinance existing indebtedness, vary our mix of variable-rate and fixed-rate debt
or seek alternative financing sources for our cash and operational needs.    Our stockholders  equity was $3.4 billion
at December 31, 2014, a decrease of $1.5 billion from December 31, 2013. The decrease was due to the re-measurements of our postretirement benefit plans of $2.9 billion, primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate, which was partially
offset by the amortization of $706 million in 2014 postretirement benefit plan expense; the repurchase of 11.5 million common shares for $1.9 billion; and dividends declared of $1.8 billion during the year. These decreases were partially offset
by net earnings of $3.6 billion and employee stock activity of $799 million (including the impacts of stock option exercises, ESOP activity and stock-based compensation). As we repurchase our common shares, we reduce common stock for the $1 of par
value of the shares repurchased, with the excess purchase price over par value recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Due to the volume of repurchases made under our share repurchase program, additional paid-in capital was reduced to
zero, with the remainder of the excess purchase price over par value of $1.1 billion recorded as a reduction of retained earnings.  
   Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
 At December 31, 2014, we had contractual commitments to repay debt, make payments under operating leases, settle
obligations related to agreements to purchase goods and services and settle tax and other liabilities. Capital lease obligations were not material. Payments due under these obligations and commitments are as follows (in millions):  

(a)   
   Long-term debt includes scheduled principal payments only.     
 Amounts related to other liabilities represent the contractual obligations for certain long-term liabilities recorded as of
December 31, 2014. Such amounts mainly include expected payments under non-qualified pension plans, environmental liabilities and deferred compensation plans.  
 Purchase obligations related to operating activities include agreements and contracts that give the supplier recourse to us
for cancellation or nonperformance under the contract or contain terms that would subject us to liquidated damages. Such agreements and contracts may, for example, be related to direct materials, obligations to subcontractors and outsourcing
arrangements. Total purchase obligations for operating activities in the preceding table include approximately $32.0 billion related to contractual commitments entered into as a result of contracts we have with our U.S. Government customers. The
U.S. Government generally would be required to pay us for any costs we incur relative to these commitments if they were to terminate the related contracts  for convenience  under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), subject to
available funding. This also would be true in cases where we perform subcontract work for a prime contractor under a U.S. Government contract. The termination for convenience language also may be included in contracts with foreign, state and local
governments. We also have contracts with customers that do not include termination for convenience provisions, including contracts with commercial customers.  
      46  

Table of Contents  

  Purchase obligations in the preceding table for capital expenditures generally
include facilities infrastructure, equipment and information technology.    We also may enter into industrial cooperation
agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, as a condition to obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign countries. These agreements are designed to enhance the social and economic environment of the
foreign country by requiring the contractor to promote investment in the country. Offset agreements may be satisfied through activities that do not require us to use cash, including transferring technology, providing manufacturing and other
consulting support to in-country projects and the purchase by third parties (e.g. ,  our vendors) of supplies from in-country vendors. These agreements also may be satisfied through our use of cash for such activities as purchasing supplies
from in-country vendors, providing financial support for in-country projects, establishment of ventures with local companies and building or leasing facilities for in-country operations. We typically do not commit to offset agreements until orders
for our products or services are definitive. The amounts ultimately applied against our offset agreements are based on negotiations with the customer and typically require cash outlays that represent only a fraction of the original amount in the
offset agreement. The costs to satisfy our offset obligations are included in the estimates of our total costs to complete the contract and may impact our profitability and cash flows. The ability to recover investments that we make are generally
dependent upon the successful operation of ventures that we do not control and may involve products and services that are dissimilar to our business activities. At December 31, 2014, the remaining obligations under our outstanding offset
agreements totaled $13.1 billion, which primarily relate to our Aeronautics, MFC and MST business segments, some of which extend through 2027. To the extent we have entered into purchase obligations at December 31, 2014 that also satisfy offset
agreements, those amounts are included in the preceding table. Offset programs usually extend over several years and may provide for penalties, estimated at approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2014, in the event we fail to perform in
accordance with offset requirements. While historically we have not been required to pay material penalties, resolution of offset requirements are often the result of negotiations and subjective judgments.  
 In connection with our 50% ownership interest of ULA, we and The Boeing Company (Boeing) have each received distributions from
ULA, including distributions of $527 million that we and Boeing have each received (since ULA s formation in December 2006) which are subject to agreements between us, Boeing and ULA, whereby, if ULA does not have sufficient cash resources or
credit capacity to make required payments under the inventory supply agreement it has with Boeing, both we and Boeing would provide to ULA, in the form of an additional capital contribution, the level of funding required for ULA to make those
payments. Any such capital contributions would not exceed the amount of the distributions subject to the agreements. Based on current expectations of ULA s cash flow needs, we currently believe that ULA should have sufficient operating cash
flows and credit capacity, including access to its $560 million revolving credit agreement from third-party financial institutions, to meet its obligations such that we would not be required to make a contribution under these agreements.  
 In addition, both we and Boeing have cross-indemnified each other for guarantees by us and Boeing of the performance and
financial obligations of ULA under certain launch service contracts. We believe ULA will be able to fully perform its obligations, as it has done through December 31, 2014, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the
cross-indemnities or guarantees.    We have entered into standby letters of credit, surety bonds and third-party guarantees
with financial institutions and other third parties primarily relating to advances received from customers and the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Letters of credit and surety bonds generally are available for draw down in the
event we do not perform. In some cases, we may guarantee the contractual performance of third parties such as venture partners. At December 31, 2014, we had the following outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and third-party guarantees
(in millions):      

(a)   
   Approximately $710 million of standby letters of credit in the  Less Than 1 Year  category are expected to renew for additional periods
until completion of the contractual obligation.     
      47  

Table of Contents  

  At December 31, 2014, third-party guarantees totaled $774 million, of which
approximately 85% related to guarantees of contractual performance of ventures to which we currently are or previously were a party. This amount represents our estimate of the maximum amount we would expect to incur upon the contractual
non-performance of the venture partners. In addition, we generally have cross-indemnities in place that may enable us to recover amounts that may be paid on behalf of a venture partner. We believe our current and former venture partners will be able
to perform their obligations, as they have done through December 31, 2014, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the guarantees. In determining our exposures, we evaluate the reputation, technical capabilities and credit
quality of our current and former venture partners.      Critical Accounting Policies    
  Contract Accounting / Sales Recognition   
 Substantially all of our net sales are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method, which requires that
significant estimates and assumptions be made in accounting for the contracts. Our remaining net sales are derived from contracts to provide services to non-U.S. Government customers, which we account for under a services accounting model.  
 We evaluate new or significantly modified contracts with customers other than the U.S. Government, to the extent the contracts
include multiple elements, to determine if the individual deliverables should be accounted for as separate units of accounting. When we determine that accounting for the deliverables as separate units is appropriate, we allocate the contract value
to the deliverables based on their relative estimated selling prices. The contracts or contract modifications we evaluate for multiple elements typically are long-term in nature and include the provision of both products and services. Based on the
nature of our business, we generally account for components of such contracts using the percentage-of-completion accounting model or the services accounting model, as appropriate.  
 We classify net sales as products or services on our Statements of Earnings based on the predominant attributes of the
underlying contract. Most of our long-term contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, including contracts for sales of military products and services to international governments contracted through the U.S. Government. We record sales for both
products and services under cost-reimbursable, fixed-price and time-and-materials contracts.      Contract Types    
  Cost-reimbursable contracts   
 Cost-reimbursable contracts, which accounted for about 40% of our total net sales in 2014 and 45% of our total net sales in
2013 and 2012, provide for the payment of allowable costs incurred during performance of the contract plus a fee, up to a ceiling based on the amount that has been funded. We generate revenue under two general types of cost-reimbursable contracts:
cost-plus-award-fee/incentive fee which represent a substantial majority of our cost-reimbursable contracts; and cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.  
 Cost-plus-award-fee contracts provide for an award fee that varies within specified limits based on the customer s
assessment of our performance against a predetermined set of criteria, such as targets based on cost, quality, technical and schedule criteria. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fee which is adjusted by a
formula based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs (incentive based on cost) or reimbursement of costs plus an incentive to exceed stated performance targets (incentive based on performance). The fixed fee in a
cost-plus-fixed-fee contract is negotiated at the inception of the contract and that fixed fee does not vary with actual costs.     Fixed-price and other
contracts     Under fixed-price contracts, which accounted for about 55% of our total net sales in 2014 and 50% of our
total net sales in 2013 and 2012, we agree to perform the specified work for a pre-determined price. To the extent our actual costs vary from the estimates upon which the price was negotiated, we will generate more or less profit or could incur a
loss. Some fixed-price contracts have a performance-based component under which we may earn incentive payments or incur financial penalties based on our performance.  
 Under time-and-materials contracts, which accounted for about 5% of our total net sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012, we are paid a
fixed hourly rate for each direct labor hour expended and we are reimbursed for allowable material costs and allowable out-of-pocket expenses. To the extent our actual direct labor and associated costs vary in relation to the fixed hourly billing
rates provided in the contract, we will generate more or less profit or could incur a loss.  
      48  

Table of Contents  

    Percentage-of-Completion Method of Accounting    
 We record net sales and an estimated profit on a percentage-of-completion basis for cost-reimbursable and fixed-price
contracts for product and services contracts with the U.S. Government.    The percentage-of-completion method for product
contracts depends on the nature of the products provided under the contract. For example, for contracts that require us to perform a significant level of development effort in comparison to the total value of the contract and/or to deliver minimal
quantities, sales are recorded using the cost-to-cost method to measure progress toward completion. Under the cost-to-cost method, we recognize sales and an estimated profit as costs are incurred based on the proportion that the incurred costs bear
to total estimated costs. For contracts that require us to provide a substantial number of similar items without a significant level of development, we record sales and an estimated profit on a percentage-of-completion basis using units-of-delivery
as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract. For contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government, sales are generally recorded using the cost-to-cost method.  
 Award and incentive fees, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating sales and profit
rates on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method. Estimates of award fees are based on past experience and anticipated performance. We record incentives or penalties when there is sufficient information to assess
anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are not recognized until the event occurs.  
 Accounting for contracts using the percentage-of-completion method requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating
contract sales and costs (including estimating award and incentive fees and penalties related to performance) and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the number of years it may take to complete many of our contracts and the
scope and nature of the work required to be performed on those contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables and, accordingly, is subject to change. When adjustments in estimated total
contract sales or estimated total costs are required, any changes from prior estimates are recognized in the current period for the inception-to-date effect of such changes.  
 Our estimates of costs at completion of the contract are based on assumptions we make for variables such as labor productivity
and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials, the length of time to complete the contract (to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials), performance by our subcontractors and the
availability and timing of funding from our customer, among other variables. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of sales to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the
period in which the loss is determined.    Many of our contracts span several years and include highly complex technical
requirements. At the outset of a contract, we identify and monitor risks to the achievement of the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract and assess the effects of those risks on our estimates of total costs to complete the contract.
The estimates consider the technical requirements (e.g., a newly-developed product versus a mature product), the schedule and associated tasks (e.g., the number and type of milestone events) and costs (e.g., material, labor, subcontractor, overhead
and the estimated costs to fulfill our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, required under certain contracts with international customers). The initial profit booking rate of each contract considers risks
surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements, schedule and costs in the initial estimated total costs to complete the contract. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks
surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract which decreases the estimated total costs to complete the contract. Conversely, our profit booking rates may decrease if the estimated total costs to complete the contract
increase. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and may affect the profit booking rate.  
 In addition, comparability of our segment sales, operating profit and operating margins may be impacted favorably or
unfavorably by changes in profit booking rates on our contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Increases in the profit booking rates, typically referred to as risk retirements, usually relate to revisions in
the estimated total costs that reflect improved conditions on a particular contract. Conversely, conditions on a particular contract may deteriorate resulting in an increase in the estimated total costs to complete and a reduction in the profit
booking rate. Increases or decreases in profit booking rates are recognized in the current period and reflect the inception-to-date effect of such changes. Segment operating profit and margins may also be impacted favorably or unfavorably by other
items. Favorable items may include the positive resolution of contractual matters, cost recoveries on restructuring charges and insurance recoveries. Unfavorable items may include the adverse resolution of contractual matters; certain asset
impairments;  
      49  

Table of Contents  

restructuring charges, except for significant severance actions as mentioned above which are excluded from segment operating results; and reserves for disputes. Segment operating profit and items
such as risk retirements, reductions of profit booking rates or other matters are presented net of state income taxes.     Services
Method of Accounting      Under a fixed-price service contract, we are paid a predetermined fixed amount for a
specified scope of work and generally have full responsibility for the costs associated with the contract and the resulting profit or loss. We record net sales under fixed-price service contracts to non-U.S. Government customers on a straight-line
basis over the period of contract performance, unless evidence suggests that net sales are earned or the obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. For cost-reimbursable contracts for services to non-U.S. Government customers that provide for
award and incentive fees, we record net sales as services are performed, exclusive of award and incentive fees. Award and incentive fees are recorded when they are fixed or determinable, generally at the date the amount is communicated to us by the
customer. This approach results in the recognition of such fees at contractual intervals (typically every six months) throughout the contract and is dependent on the customer s processes for notification of awards and issuance of formal
notifications. Costs for all service contracts are expensed as incurred.      Other Contract Accounting Considerations    
 The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under
contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost-based pricing is determined under the FAR. The FAR provides guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs
such as those related to charitable contributions, interest expense and certain advertising and public relations activities are unallowable and, therefore, not recoverable through sales. In addition, we may enter into advance agreements with the
U.S. Government that address the subjects of allowability and allocability of costs to contracts for specific matters. For example, most of the environmental costs we incur for environmental remediation related to sites operated in prior years are
allocated to our current operations as general and administrative costs under FAR provisions and supporting advance agreements reached with the U.S. Government.  
 We closely monitor compliance with and the consistent application of our critical accounting policies related to contract
accounting. Costs incurred and allocated to contracts are reviewed for compliance with U.S. Government regulations by our personnel and are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.  
  Postretirement Benefit Plans   
   Overview    
 Many of our employees participate in qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans, retiree medical and life
insurance plans and other postemployment plans (collectively, postretirement benefit plans   see Note 9). The majority of our accrued benefit obligations relate to our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life
insurance plans. We recognize on a plan-by-plan basis the net funded status of these postretirement benefit plans under GAAP as either an asset or a liability on our Balance Sheets. There is a corresponding non-cash adjustment to accumulated other
comprehensive loss, net of tax benefits recorded as deferred tax assets, in stockholders  equity. The GAAP funded status represents the difference between the fair value of each plan s assets and the benefit obligation of the plan. The
GAAP benefit obligation represents the present value of the estimated future benefits we currently expect to pay to plan participants based on past service.  
 In June 2014, we amended certain of our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to
freeze future retirement benefits. The freeze will take effect in two stages. Beginning on January 1, 2016, the pay-based component of the formula used to determine retirement benefits will be frozen so that future pay increases, annual
incentive bonuses or other amounts earned for or related to periods after December 31, 2015 will not be used to calculate retirement benefits. On January 1, 2020, the service-based component of the formula used to determine retirement
benefits will also be frozen so that participants will no longer earn further credited service for any period after December 31, 2019. When the freeze is complete, the majority of our salaried employees will have transitioned to an enhanced
defined contribution retirement savings plan.    As a result of these plan amendments, we were required to re-measure the
assets and benefit obligations for the affected defined benefit pension plans in June 2014. We also elected to re-measure the assets and benefit obligations of substantially  
      50  

Table of Contents  

all other defined benefit pension plans in June 2014 to align the measurement date across substantially all of our defined benefit pension plans. As a result of the re-measurements, in June 2014
we recorded a net increase of $1.1 billion to our qualified defined benefit pension obligations and a net increase of $79 million to our nonqualified defined benefit pension obligations, which combined resulted in a corresponding increase of $735
million to other comprehensive loss during 2014, net of $402 million of tax benefits.    Additionally, in recent years, we
have taken other actions to mitigate the effect of our defined benefit pension plans on our financial results, including no longer offering a defined benefit pension plan to non-union represented employees hired after December 2005 and negotiating
similar changes with various labor organizations such that new union represented employees do not participate in our defined benefit pension plans. Further, during 2014, lump-sum settlement payments of $427 million were made from the defined benefit
pension trust to certain former employees who had not commenced receiving their vested benefit payments and the corresponding benefit obligation was reduced by $529 million.  
 Notwithstanding these actions, the impact of these plans and benefits on our earnings may be volatile in that the amount of
expense we record and the funded status for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to funding levels as well as changes in several key economic assumptions, including
interest rates, rates of return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity estimates, expected rates of increase in future compensation levels through December 31, 2015 for our non-union plans, and employee
turnover, as well as the timing of cash funding.      Actuarial Assumptions    
 The plan assets and benefit obligations are measured at the end of each year or more frequently, upon the occurrence of
certain events such as a plan amendment (as described above), settlement or curtailment. The amounts we record are measured using actuarial valuations, which are dependent upon key assumptions such as discount rates, employee turnover, participant
longevity, the expected rates of increase in future compensation levels through December 31, 2015 for our non-union plans, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the health care cost trend rates for our retiree medical plans.
The assumptions we make affect both the calculation of the benefit obligations as of the measurement date and the calculation of net periodic benefit cost in subsequent periods. When reassessing these assumptions we consider past and current market
conditions and make judgments about future market trends. We also consider factors such as the timing and amounts of expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants.  
 We utilized a discount rate of 4.00% when calculating our benefit obligations related to our defined benefit pension plans at
December 31, 2014, compared to 4.75% at December 31, 2013 and 4.00% at December 31, 2012. We utilized a discount rate of 3.75% when calculating our benefit obligations related to our retiree medical plans at December 31, 2014,
compared to 4.50% at December 31, 2013 and 3.75% at December 31, 2012. We evaluate several data points in order to arrive at an appropriate discount rate, including results from cash flow models, quoted rates from long-term bond indices
and changes in long-term bond rates over the past year. As part of our evaluation, we calculate the approximate average yields on corporate bonds rated AA or better selected to match our projected postretirement benefit plan cash flows.  
 Longevity assumptions are used to estimate the life expectancy of plan participants during which they are expected to receive
benefit payments. Recent actuarial studies indicate life expectancies are longer and would have the resultant effect of increasing the total expected benefit payments to plan participants. Our benefit obligations at December 31, 2014 reflect
the new longevity assumptions which had the effect of increasing the qualified defined benefit pension benefit obligations by $3.4 billion.  
 We utilized an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of 8.00% at December 31, 2014, consistent with the rate
used at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. The long-term rate of return assumption represents the expected long-term rate of return on the funds invested or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the benefit
obligations. This assumption is based on several factors including historical market index returns, the anticipated long-term allocation of plan assets, the historical return data for the trust funds, plan expenses and the potential to outperform
market index returns. The difference between the long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption we select and the actual return on plan assets in any given year affects both the funded status of our benefit plans and the calculation of FAS
pension expense in subsequent periods. Although the actual return in any specific year likely will differ from the assumption, the average expected return over a long-term future horizon should be approximately equal to the assumption. As a result,
changes in this assumption are less frequent than changes in the discount rate.    Our stockholders  equity has been
reduced cumulatively by $11.8 billion from the annual year-end measurements of the funded status of postretirement benefit plans, inclusive of the $2.9 billion for the 2014 remeasurement. The cumulative
non- 
      51  

Table of Contents  

cash, after-tax reduction primarily represents net actuarial losses resulting from declines in discount rates from 6.375% at the end of 2007 to 4.00% at the end of 2014 and investment losses
incurred during 2008, which will be amortized to expense over the average future service period of employees expected to receive benefits under the plans of approximately 10 years. During 2014, $706 million of these amounts was recognized as a
component of postretirement benefit plans expense and about $850 million is expected to be recognized as expense in 2015.  
 The discount rate and long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions we select at the end of each year are based on our
best estimates and judgment. A change of plus or minus 25 basis points in the 4.00% discount rate assumption at December 31, 2014, with all other assumptions held constant, would have decreased or increased the amount of the qualified pension
benefit obligation we recorded at the end of 2014 by approximately $1.5 billion, which would result in an after-tax increase or decrease in stockholders  equity at the end of the year of approximately $1.0 billion. If the 4.00% discount rate at
December 31, 2014 that was used to compute the expected 2015 FAS pension expense for our qualified defined benefit pension plans had been 25 basis points higher or lower, with all other assumptions held constant, the amount of FAS pension
expense projected for 2015 would be lower or higher by approximately $125 million. If the 8.00% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2014 that was used to compute the expected 2015 FAS pension expense for
our qualified defined benefit pension plans had been 25 basis points higher or lower, with all other assumptions held constant, the amount of FAS pension expense projected for 2015 would be lower or higher by approximately $85 million.  
   Funding Considerations    
 We made contributions related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans of $2.0 billion in 2014, $2.25 billion in 2013
and $3.6 billion in 2012, inclusive of amounts in excess of our required contributions. Funding of our qualified defined benefit pension plans is determined in a manner consistent with CAS and in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA). Our goal has been to fund the pension plans to a level of at least 80%, as determined under the PPA. This ERISA funded status is calculated on a different basis
than under GAAP. In July 2012, the U.S. Government passed the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act of 2012 (MAP-21), which included a provision that changed the methodology for calculating the interest rate assumption used in
determining the minimum funding requirements under the PPA. As a result of MAP-21 there was an increase in the interest rate assumption, which in turn lowered the minimum funding requirements. The impact of MAP-21 decreased each year and was
scheduled to phase out by 2016. On August 8, 2014, the HATFA was enacted, which extends the methodology put in place by MAP-21 to calculate the interest rate assumption so that the impact will begin to decrease in 2018 and phase out by 2021.
Accordingly, the HATFA has the effect of lowering our minimum funding requirements during the affected periods from what they otherwise would have been had the MAP-21 methodology not been extended. The ERISA funded status of our qualified defined
benefit pension plans was about 94% and 93% as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The GAAP funded status of our qualified defined benefit pension plans was about 76% and 78% funded at December 31, 2014 and 2013.  
 Contributions to our defined benefit pension plans are recovered over time through the pricing of our products and services on
U.S. Government contracts, including FMS, and are recognized in our cost of sales and net sales. CAS govern the extent to which our pension costs are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government, including FMS. We recovered
$1.5 billion in both 2014 and 2013 and $1.1 billion in 2012 as CAS pension costs. Effective February 27, 2012, CAS rules were revised to better align the recovery of pension costs, including prepayment credits, on U.S. Government contracts with
the minimum funding requirements of the PPA (referred to as CAS Harmonization). Specifically, CAS Harmonization shortened the amortization period for allocating gains and losses to U.S. Government contracts from 15 to 10 years and requires the
use of an interest rate to determine CAS pension cost consistent with the interest rate used to determine minimum pension funding requirements under the PPA. While the change in the amortization period was applicable beginning in 2013, there is a
transition period for the impact of the change in the CAS liability measurement due to the revised interest rate that will be phased in with the full impact occurring in 2017. We expect the incremental impact of CAS Harmonization will increase
successively over years 2014 through 2017, primarily due to the liability measurement transition period included in the amended rule. The enactment of the HATFA also increased the interest rate assumption used to determine our CAS pension costs,
which has the effect of lowering the recovery of pension contributions during the affected periods as it decreases our CAS pension costs.  
 Pension cost recoveries under CAS occur in different periods from when pension contributions are made under the PPA. Amounts
contributed in excess of the CAS pension costs recovered under U.S. Government contracts are considered to be prepayment credits under the CAS rules. As of December 31, 2014, our prepayment credits were approximately $10.8 billion, inclusive of
the impacts of HATFA, as compared to $9.6 billion at December 31, 2013. The prepayment balance will increase or decrease based on our actual investment return on plan assets.  
      52  

Table of Contents  

    Trends    
 We do not plan to make contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2015 through 2017 because none are
required using current assumptions. However, we anticipate recovering approximately $1.6 billion of CAS pension cost in 2015 and our CAS recoveries in 2016 and 2017 to be sequentially higher than in 2015 as we begin to recover the $10.8 billion of
prepayment credits at December 31, 2014 under the CAS rules.    We expect our 2015 FAS pension expense to be $1.1
billion, which is less than our 2014 FAS pension expense of $1.2 billion, primarily due to the plan amendments announced in June 2014, offset by the impact of the new longevity assumptions and the decline in the discount rate. Also, we expect
FAS/CAS pension income in 2015 of about $475 million, as compared to FAS/CAS pension income of $376 million in 2014, primarily due to higher CAS pension costs due to CAS Harmonization. FAS/CAS pension income is expected to increase sequentially
from 2015 at an approximate 50% rate annually in 2016 and 2017.     Environmental Matters   
 We are a party to various agreements, proceedings and potential proceedings for environmental cleanup issues, including
matters at various sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or by a state agency. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the total amount of liabilities recorded on our
Balance Sheet for environmental matters was $965 million and $997 million. We have recorded receivables totaling $836 million and $863 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013 for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future
recovery in pricing of our products and services for agencies of the U.S. Government, as discussed below. The amount that is expected to be allocated to our non-U.S. Government contracts or that is determined to not be recoverable under U.S.
Government contracts has been expensed through cost of sales. We project costs and recovery of costs over approximately 20 years.  
 We enter into agreements (e.g. ,  administrative orders, consent decrees) that document the extent and timing of our
environmental remediation obligation. We also are involved in remediation activities at environmental sites where formal agreements either do not exist or do not quantify the extent and timing of our obligation. Environmental cleanup activities
usually span many years, which makes estimating the costs more judgmental due to, for example, changing remediation technologies. To determine the costs related to cleanup sites, we have to assess the extent of contamination, effects on natural
resources, the appropriate technology to be used to accomplish the remediation and evolving regulatory environmental standards.  
 We perform quarterly reviews of environmental remediation sites and record liabilities and receivables in the period it
becomes probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated (see the discussion under  Environmental Matters  in  Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies  and  Note 12   Legal
Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies  to our consolidated financial statements). We consider the above factors in our quarterly estimates of the timing and amount of any future costs that may be required for remediation activities, which
results in the calculation of a range of estimates for a particular environmental site. We do not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future cash payments are not fixed or cannot be reliably determined. Given the required
level of judgment and estimation, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if different assumptions were used or if circumstances were to change (e.g. ,  a change in environmental standards or a change in our estimate of
the extent of contamination).    On July 1, 2014, a regulation became effective in California setting the maximum level
of the contaminant hexavalent chromium in drinking water at 10 parts per billion (ppb). In May 2014, the Manufacturers and Technology Association filed a suit alleging the 10 ppb threshold is lower than is required to protect public health and thus
imposes unjustified costs on the regulated community. We cannot predict the outcome of this suit or whether other challenges may be advanced by the regulated community or environmental groups which had sought a significantly higher and lower
standard, respectively. If the new standard remains at 10 ppb, it will not have a material impact on our existing remediation costs in California. In addition, California is reevaluating its existing drinking water standard with respect to a second
contaminant, perchlorate, and the U.S. EPA is also considering whether to regulate perchlorate and hexavalent chromium in drinking water. If substantially lower standards are adopted, in either California or at the federal level, for perchlorate or,
if the U.S. EPA were to adopt a standard for hexavalent chromium lower than 10 ppb, we expect a material increase in our estimates for environmental liabilities and the related assets for the portion of the increased costs that are probable of
future recovery in the pricing of our products and services for the U.S. Government. The amount that would be allocable to our non-U.S. Government contracts or that is determined to not be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts would be
expensed, which may have a material effect on our earnings in any particular interim reporting period.  
      53  

Table of Contents  

  Under agreements reached with the U.S. Government, most of the amounts we spend
for environmental remediation are allocated to our operations as general and administrative costs. Under existing government regulations, these and other environmental expenditures relating to our U.S. Government business, after deducting any
recoveries received from insurance or other PRPs, are allowable in establishing prices of our products and services. As a result, most of the expenditures we incur are included in our net sales and cost of sales according to U.S. Government
agreement or regulation, regardless of the contract form (e.g. cost-reimbursable, fixed-price). We continually evaluate the recoverability of our environmental receivables by assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our U.S.
Government business base and contract mix and our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs.    As disclosed above,
we may record changes in the amount of environmental remediation liabilities as a result of our quarterly reviews of the status of our environmental remediation sites, which would result in a change to the corresponding environmental receivable and
a charge to earnings. For example, if we were to determine that the liabilities should be increased by $100 million, the corresponding receivables would be increased by approximately $87 million, with the remainder recorded as a charge to earnings.
This allocation is determined annually, based upon our existing and projected business activities with the U.S. Government.  
 We reasonably cannot determine the extent of our financial exposure at all environmental sites with which we are involved.
There are a number of former operating facilities we are monitoring or investigating for potential future remediation. In some cases, although a loss may be probable, it is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the amount of any
obligation for remediation activities because of uncertainties (e.g., assessing the extent of the contamination). During any particular quarter, such uncertainties may be resolved, allowing us to estimate and recognize the initial liability to
remediate a particular former operating site. The amount of the liability could be material. Upon recognition of the liability, a portion will be recognized as a receivable with the remainder charged to earnings which may have a material effect in
any particular interim reporting period.    If we are ultimately found to have liability at those sites where we have been
designated a PRP, we expect that the actual costs of remediation will be shared with other liable PRPs. Generally, PRPs that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site cleanup and usually agree among themselves
to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation. Under existing environmental laws, responsible parties are jointly and severally liable and, therefore, we are potentially liable for the full cost of funding
such remediation. In the unlikely event that we were required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of cost recovery or contribution from the other PRPs. The amounts we record do not
reflect the fact that we may recover some of the environmental costs we have incurred through insurance or from other PRPs, which we are required to pursue by agreement and U.S. Government regulation.  
  Goodwill   
 Our goodwill balances were $10.9 billion and $10.3 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013. We perform an impairment test
of our goodwill at least annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. Such events or changes in circumstances may include a significant
deterioration in overall economic conditions, changes in the business climate of our industry, a decline in our market capitalization, operating performance indicators, competition, reorganizations of our business, U.S. Government budget
restrictions or the disposal of all or a portion of a reporting unit. Our goodwill has been allocated to and is tested for impairment at a level referred to as the reporting unit, which is our business segment level or a level below the business
segment. The level at which we test goodwill for impairment requires us to determine whether the operations below the business segment constitute a self-sustaining business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management
regularly reviews the operating results.    When testing goodwill for impairment, we initially compare the fair value of
each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we
then compare the implied value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying value of its goodwill. The implied value of the reporting unit s goodwill is calculated by creating a hypothetical balance sheet as if the reporting unit had
just been acquired. This balance sheet contains all assets and liabilities recorded at fair value (including any assumed intangible assets that may not have any corresponding carrying value in our balance sheet). The implied value of the reporting
unit s goodwill is calculated by subtracting the fair value of the net assets from the fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied value of that goodwill, an impairment loss
is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  
      54  

Table of Contents  

  We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of a
discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis and market-based valuation methodologies such as comparable public company trading values and values observed in business acquisitions. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments,
including the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, long-term growth rates, discount rates and relevant comparable public company earnings multiples and transaction multiples. The cash flows employed in the DCF analyses are based on our
best estimate of future sales, earnings and cash flows after considering factors such as general market conditions, U.S. Government budgets, existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, changes in working
capital, long term business plans and recent operating performance. The discount rates utilized in the DCF analysis are based on the respective reporting unit s weighted average cost of capital, which takes into account the relative weights of
each component of capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital, adjusted as appropriate to consider the risk inherent in future cash flows of the respective reporting unit.  
 The carrying value of each reporting unit includes the assets and liabilities employed in its operations, goodwill and
allocations of amounts held at the business segment and corporate levels. Corporate allocations include our postretirement benefit plans liabilities, as determined in accordance with CAS, in order to align the basis of the carrying values with the
determination of the fair values of our reporting units, which are measured using CAS pension cost. CAS pension cost is recovered through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, affects the fair value of
each reporting unit. The amount of CAS pension liability allocated to each reporting unit is significantly influenced by a number of factors, including the discount rate used to estimate the obligation. On August 8, 2014, the HATFA was enacted,
which extended the pension interest rate relief of the prior MAP-21. As a result, the interest rate used to calculate CAS pension costs recovered under our contracts with the U.S. Government increased with the resulting effect of decreasing the
amount of CAS pension liability allocated to each reporting unit, contributing to an increase in the carrying value of each reporting unit.  
 In the fourth quarter of 2014, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test for each of our reporting units. The results
of these tests indicated that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values, with the exception of our Technical Services reporting unit within our MFC business segment. Technical Services, for which we recorded a
$195 million goodwill impairment in 2013, experienced further declines in fair value during 2014. Technical Services which typically has smaller customer contracts of a shorter duration, has been adversely impacted by market pressures such as lower
in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on existing contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price. As a result, we compared the implied value of that reporting unit s goodwill with the
carrying value of its goodwill, and since the carrying value exceeded the implied value, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $119 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 equal to that differential.  
 We continue to experience uncertainty in our business environment due to significant fiscal and economic challenges facing the
U.S. Government, our primary customer, as well as market pressures. While initiatives such as the Bipartisan Budget Act provide a more measured and strategic approach to addressing the U.S. Government s fiscal challenges, budget reductions,
including sequestration, remain a long-term concern as the Bipartisan Budget Act retained sequestration cuts for GFYs 2016 through 2021 and the across-the-board spending reduction methodology provided for in the Budget Control Act. Generally, our
businesses with smaller, short-term contracts are the most susceptible to the impacts of budget reductions, such as our Civil reporting unit within our IS GS business segment, Technical Services reporting unit within our MFC business segment and
certain services businesses within our MST business segment. The Civil reporting unit has been impacted by the continued downturn in certain federal agencies  information technology budgets and increased re-competition on existing contracts
coupled with fragmentation of large contracts into multiple smaller contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price.  
 The carrying value of our Civil reporting unit included goodwill of $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2014. Currently, we
estimate that the fair value of our Civil reporting unit exceeds its carrying value by a margin of approximately 15%. Budget reductions, contract cancellations and terminations or market pressures could cause our sales, earnings and cash flows to
further decline below our current projections. Similarly, market factors utilized in the impairment analysis, including long-term growth rates, discount rates and relevant comparable public company earnings multiples and transaction multiples, could
negatively impact the fair value of our reporting units. Based on our current assessment of these circumstances, we have determined that our Civil reporting unit is at risk of a future goodwill impairment should there be further deterioration of
projected cash flows, negative changes in market factors or a significant increase in the carrying value of this reporting unit.  
 Impairment assessments inherently involve management judgments regarding a number of assumptions described above. Due to the
many variables inherent in the estimation of a reporting unit s fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in assumptions could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units
and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.  
      55  

Table of Contents  

   Recent Accounting Pronouncements   
 In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard that will change the way we recognize
revenue and significantly expand the disclosure requirements for revenue recognition. Unless the FASB delays the effective date of the new standard, it will be effective for us beginning on January 1, 2017. See Note 1 (under the caption
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements ) for additional information related to this new standard.      

ITEM 7A.  
  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.       We
maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of U.S. and international financial institutions. We believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit we require to conduct our business. We continue to
closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring availability of, and access to, sufficient credit
resources.    Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market prices
on certain equity securities. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. The estimated fair value of our outstanding debt was $7.9 billion at December 31, 2014 and the
outstanding principal amount was $7.0 billion, excluding unamortized discounts of $872 million. A 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our outstanding debt at December 31, 2014.  
 We use derivative instruments principally to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates and interest rates. We do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. We transact business globally and are subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. We enter into foreign
currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. Our most significant foreign currency exposures relate to the British Pound Sterling and the Canadian Dollar. These contracts
hedge forecasted foreign currency transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. We also are exposed
to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through our borrowing activities. For fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR in order
to reduce the amount of interest paid. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges. For variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate
the impact of interest rate changes on earnings. These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate
certain economic exposures.    The classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of
derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. Adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely
offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are
attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. The aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps at
December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion. The aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $804 million and $1.0 billion. At December 31, 2014 and
2013, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (Note 15). A 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at December 31,
2014 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our consolidated financial statements.  
 We evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with
those deemed to have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. Our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. We periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our
concentration of credit exposure to individual counterparties. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  
 We maintain a separate trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. As of
December 31, 2014, investments in the trust totaled $1.1 billion and are reflected at fair value on our Balance Sheet in other noncurrent assets. The trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are
 
      56  

Table of Contents  

exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. A portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the trust is also impacted by changes in the
market price of our common stock and certain market indices. Changes in the value of the liabilities have the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the trust. Both the change in the fair value of the trust and the
change in the value of the liabilities are recognized on our Statements of Earnings in other unallocated, net and were not material for the year ended December 31, 2014.  
      57  

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.  
  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.         Report of Ernst   Young
LLP,        Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,    
   on the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements    
 Board of Directors and Stockholders  
 Lockheed Martin Corporation  
 We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lockheed Martin Corporation as of December 31, 2014 and
2013, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Corporation s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  
 We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.    In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Lockheed Martin Corporation at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2014, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.    We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Lockheed Martin Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 9, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  
 /s/ Ernst   Young LLP  
 McLean, Virginia  
 February 9, 2015  
      58  

Table of Contents  

     Lockheed Martin Corporation   
   Consolidated Statements of Earnings   
   (in millions, except per share data)       
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
      59  

Table of Contents  

     Lockheed Martin Corporation   
   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   
   (in millions)       
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
      60  

Table of Contents  

     Lockheed Martin Corporation   
   Consolidated Balance Sheets   
   (in millions, except par value)       
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
      61  

Table of Contents  

     Lockheed Martin Corporation   
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
   (in millions)       
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
      62  

Table of Contents  

     Lockheed Martin Corporation   
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity   
   (in millions, except per share data)       
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
      63  

Table of Contents  

     Lockheed Martin Corporation   
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
   Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies   
   Organization    We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the
research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistics and information services. We
serve both U.S. and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government.  
  Basis of presentation    Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of subsidiaries we control and
variable interest entities if we are the primary beneficiary. We eliminate intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation. Our receivables, inventories, customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred and certain amounts in other
current liabilities primarily are attributable to long-term contracts or programs in progress for which the related operating cycles are longer than one year. In accordance with industry practice, we include these items in current assets and current
liabilities. Unless otherwise noted, we present all per share amounts cited in these consolidated financial statements on a  per diluted share  basis.  
  Use of estimates    We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). In doing so, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base these estimates on historical experience and on
various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our
actual results may differ materially from these estimates. Significant estimates inherent in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, accounting for sales and cost recognition, postretirement benefit
plans, environmental receivables and liabilities, evaluation of goodwill and other assets for impairment, income taxes including deferred tax assets, fair value measurements and contingencies.  
  Sales and earnings    We record net sales and estimated profits for substantially all of our contracts using the
percentage-of-completion method for cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts for products and services with the U.S. Government. Sales are recorded on all time-and-materials contracts as the work is performed based on agreed-upon hourly rates and
allowable costs. We account for our services contracts with non-U.S. Government customers using the services method of accounting. We classify net sales as products or services on our Statements of Earnings based on the attributes of the underlying
contracts.     Percentage-of-Completion Method of Accounting    The percentage-of-completion method for product
contracts depends on the nature of the products provided under the contract. For example, for contracts that require us to perform a significant level of development effort in comparison to the total value of the contract and/or to deliver minimal
quantities, sales are recorded using the cost-to-cost method to measure progress toward completion. Under the cost-to-cost method of accounting, we recognize sales and an estimated profit as costs are incurred based on the proportion that the
incurred costs bear to total estimated costs. For contracts that require us to provide a substantial number of similar items without a significant level of development, we record sales and an estimated profit on a percentage-of-completion basis
using units-of-delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract. For contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government, sales are generally recorded using the cost-to-cost method.  
 Award and incentive fees, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in estimating sales and profit
rates on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method. Estimates of award fees are based on past experience and anticipated performance. We record incentives or penalties when there is sufficient information to assess
anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are not recognized until the event occurs.  
 Accounting for contracts using the percentage-of-completion method requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating
contract sales and costs (including estimating award and incentive fees and penalties related to performance) and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the number of years it may take to complete many of our contracts and the
scope and nature of the work required to be performed on those contracts, the estimation of total sales and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables and, accordingly, is subject to change. When adjustments in estimated total
contract sales or estimated total costs are required, any changes from prior estimates are recognized in the  
      64  

Table of Contents  

current period for the inception-to-date effect of such changes. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed estimates of total sales to be earned, a provision for the
entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined.    Many of our contracts span several
years and include highly complex technical requirements. At the outset of a contract, we identify and monitor risks to the achievement of the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract and assess the effects of those risks on our estimates
of total costs to complete the contract. The estimates consider the technical requirements (e.g., a newly-developed product versus a mature product), the schedule and associated tasks (e.g., the number and type of milestone events) and costs (e.g.,
material, labor, subcontractor, overhead and the estimated costs to fulfill our industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, required under certain contracts with international customers). The initial profit booking
rate of each contract considers risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements, schedule and costs in the initial estimated total costs to complete the contract. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the
contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule and cost aspects of the contract which decreases the estimated total costs to complete the contract. Conversely, our profit booking rates may decrease if the estimated
total costs to complete the contract increase. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and may affect the profit booking rate.  
 In addition, comparability of our segment sales, operating profit and operating margins may be impacted by changes in profit
booking rates on our contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Increases in the profit booking rates, typically referred to as risk retirements, usually relate to revisions in the estimated total costs that
reflect improved conditions on a particular contract. Conversely, conditions on a particular contract may deteriorate resulting in an increase in the estimated total costs to complete and a reduction in the profit booking rate. Increases or
decreases in profit booking rates are recognized in the current period and reflect the inception-to-date effect of such changes. Segment operating profit and margins may also be impacted favorably or unfavorably by other items. Favorable items may
include the positive resolution of contractual matters, cost recoveries on restructuring charges and insurance recoveries. Unfavorable items may include the adverse resolution of contractual matters; asset impairments; restructuring charges, except
for significant severance actions (such as those mentioned below in Note 14) which are excluded from segment operating results; and reserves for disputes. Segment operating profit and items such as risk retirements, reductions of profit booking
rates or other matters are presented net of state income taxes.   Our consolidated net adjustments not related to volume,
including net profit booking rate adjustments and other matters, net of state income taxes, increased segment operating profit, by approximately $1.8 billion in 2014, $2.1 billion in 2013 and $1.9 billion in 2012. These adjustments increased net
earnings by approximately $1.1 billion ($3.55 per share) in 2014, $1.3 billion ($4.09 per share) in 2013 and $1.2 billion ($3.70 per share) in 2012.  
  Services Method of Accounting    For cost-reimbursable contracts for services to non-U.S. Government customers, we
record net sales as services are performed, except for award and incentive fees. Award and incentive fees are recorded when they are fixed or determinable, generally at the date the amount is communicated to us by the customer. This approach results
in the recognition of such fees at contractual intervals (typically every six months) throughout the contract and is dependent on the customer s processes for notification of awards and issuance of formal notifications. Under fixed-price
service contracts, we are paid a predetermined fixed amount for a specified scope of work and generally have full responsibility for the costs associated with the contract and the resulting profit or loss. We record net sales under fixed-price
service contracts with non-U.S. Government customers on a straight-line basis over the period of contract performance, unless evidence suggests that net sales are earned or the obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Costs for all service
contracts are expensed as incurred.     Research and development and similar costs    Except for certain
arrangements described below, we account for independent research and development costs as part of the general and administrative costs that are allocated among all of our contracts and programs in progress under U.S. Government contractual
arrangements and charged to cost of sales. Under certain arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred in cost of sales. Independent research and development costs
charged to cost of sales totaled $751 million in 2014, $697 million in 2013 and $616 million in 2012. Costs we incur under customer-sponsored research and development programs pursuant to contracts are included in net sales and cost of sales.  
  Stock-based compensation    Compensation cost related to all share-based payments is measured at the grant date
based on the estimated fair value of the award. We generally recognize the compensation cost ratably over a three-year vesting period.  
      65  

Table of Contents  

   Income taxes    We calculate our provision for income taxes using the
asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences that exist between the financial statement carrying amount of assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases, as well as from operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which we expect the temporary
differences to be recovered or paid.      We periodically assess our tax filing exposures related to periods that are
open to examination. Based on the latest available information, we evaluate our tax positions to determine whether the position will more likely than not be sustained upon examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If we cannot reach a
more-likely-than-not determination, no benefit is recorded. If we determine that the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, we record the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized when the tax position is
settled. We record interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense on our Statements of Earnings. Interest and penalties were not material.  
  Cash and cash equivalents    Cash equivalents include highly liquid instruments with original maturities of 90 days
or less.     Receivables    Receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers and unbilled costs
and accrued profits primarily related to sales on long-term contracts that have been recognized but not yet billed to customers. Pursuant to contract provisions, agencies of the U.S. Government and certain other customers have title to, or a
security interest in, assets related to such contracts as a result of advances, performance-based payments and progress payments. We reflect those advances and payments as an offset to the related receivables balance for contracts that we account
for on a percentage-of-completion basis using the cost-to-cost method to measure progress towards completion.  
  Inventories    We record inventories at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Costs on long-term
contracts and programs in progress represent recoverable costs incurred for production or contract-specific facilities and equipment, allocable operating overhead, advances to suppliers and, in the case of contracts with the U.S. Government and
substantially all other governments, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Pursuant to contract provisions, agencies of the U.S. Government and certain other customers have title to, or a security interest in, inventories
related to such contracts as a result of advances, performance-based payments and progress payments. We reflect those advances and payments as an offset against the related inventory balances for contracts that we account for on a
percentage-of-completion basis using units-of-delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract. We determine the costs of other product and supply inventories by the first-in first-out or average cost methods.  
  Property, plant and equipment    We record property, plant and equipment at cost. We provide for depreciation and
amortization on plant and equipment generally using accelerated methods during the first half of the estimated useful lives of the assets and the straight-line method thereafter. The estimated useful lives of our plant and equipment generally range
from 10 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for machinery and equipment. No depreciation expense is recorded on construction in progress until such assets are placed into operation. Depreciation expense related to plant and equipment was
$739 million in 2014, $714 million in 2013 and $715 million in 2012.    We review the carrying amounts of long-lived assets
for impairment if events or changes in the facts and circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We assess impairment by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the related asset grouping to its
carrying amount. If an asset is determined to be impaired, we recognize an impairment charge in the current period for the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying amount.  
  Capitalized software    We capitalize certain costs associated with the development or purchase of internal-use
software. The amounts capitalized are included in other noncurrent assets on our Balance Sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the resulting software, which ranges from two to six years. As of
December 31, 2014 and 2013, capitalized software totaled $547 million and $653 million, net of accumulated amortization of $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion. No amortization expense is recorded until the software is ready for its intended use.
Amortization expense related to capitalized software was $206 million in 2014, $228 million in 2013 and $217 million in 2012.  
  Goodwill    We perform an impairment test of our goodwill at least annually in the fourth quarter and more
frequently whenever certain events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. Such events or changes in circumstances may include a significant deterioration in overall economic conditions, changes in the
business climate of our industry, a decline in our market capitalization, operating performance indicators, competition, reorganizations of our business or the disposal of all or a portion of a reporting unit. Our goodwill has been allocated to and
is tested for  
      66  

Table of Contents  

impairment at a level referred to as the reporting unit, which is our business segment level or a level below the business segment. The level at which we test goodwill for impairment requires us
to determine whether the operations below the business segment constitute a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results.  
 When testing goodwill for impairment, we initially compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value,
including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we then compare the implied value of the
reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying value of its goodwill. The implied value of the reporting unit s goodwill is calculated by creating a hypothetical balance sheet as if the reporting unit had just been acquired. This balance
sheet contains all assets and liabilities recorded at fair value (including any intangible assets that may not have any corresponding carrying value in our balance sheet). The implied value of the reporting unit s goodwill is calculated by
subtracting the fair value of the net assets from the fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to
that excess.    We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of a discounted cash flow (DCF)
analysis and market-based valuation methodologies such as comparable public company trading values and values observed in business acquisitions. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about the
amount and timing of expected future cash flows, long-term growth rates, discount rates and relevant comparable public company earnings multiples and transaction multiples. The cash flows employed in the DCF analyses are based on our best estimate
of future sales, earnings and cash flows after considering factors such as general market conditions, U.S. Government budgets, existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, changes in working capital,
long-term business plans and recent operating performance. The discount rates utilized in the DCF analysis are based on the respective reporting unit s weighted average cost of capital, which takes into account the relative weights of each
component of capital structure (equity and debt) and represents the expected cost of new capital, adjusted as appropriate to consider the risk inherent in future cash flows of the respective reporting unit.  
 In the fourth quarter of 2014, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test for each of our reporting units. The results
of these tests indicated that the estimated fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values, with the exception of our Technical Services reporting unit within our Missiles and Fire Control (MFC) business segment. The impact of
market pressures such as lower in-theater support as troop levels are drawn down and increased re-competition on existing contracts that are awarded primarily on the basis of price adversely impacted the fair value of this reporting unit. As a
result, we compared the implied value of that reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying value of its goodwill, and since the carrying value exceeded the implied value, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $119 million in the fourth
quarter of 2014 equal to that differential. This charge reduced our net earnings by $107 million ($.33 per share).    During
the fourth quarter of 2013, due to the continuing impact of defense budget reductions and related competitive pressures on the Technical Services business, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $195 million. This charge reduced our
2013 net earnings by $176 million ($.54 per share).     Customer advances and amounts in excess of cost incurred 
  We receive advances, performance-based payments and progress payments from customers that may exceed costs incurred on certain contracts, including contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government. We classify such advances, other than those
reflected as a reduction of receivables or inventories as discussed above, as current liabilities.     Postretirement
benefit plans    Many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). GAAP requires that the
amounts we record related to our postretirement benefit plans be computed, based on service to date, using actuarial valuations that are based in part on certain key economic assumptions we make, including the discount rate, the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity (also known as mortality) estimates, the expected rates of increase in future compensation levels through December 31, 2015 for our non-union plans,
health care cost trend rates and employee turnover, each as appropriate based on the nature of the plans. We recognize on a plan-by-plan basis the funded status of our postretirement benefit plans under GAAP as either an asset recorded within other
noncurrent assets or a liability recorded within noncurrent liabilities on our Balance Sheets. There is a corresponding non-cash adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax benefits recorded as deferred tax assets, in
stockholders  equity. The GAAP funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan s assets and the benefit obligation of the plan. The funded status under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
(ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), is calculated on a different basis than under GAAP.  
      67  

Table of Contents  

   Environmental matters    We record a liability for environmental
matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount of liability recorded is based on our estimate of the costs to be incurred for remediation at a particular site. We do not discount
the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future cash payments are not fixed or cannot be reliably determined. Our environmental liabilities are recorded on our Balance Sheets within other liabilities, both current and noncurrent. We
expect to include a substantial portion of environmental costs in our net sales and cost of sales in future periods pursuant to U.S. Government agreement or regulation. At the time a liability is recorded for future environmental costs, we record a
receivable for estimated future recovery considered probable through the pricing of products and services to agencies of the U.S. Government, regardless of the contract form (e.g., cost-reimbursable, fixed-price). We continuously evaluate the
recoverability of our environmental receivables by assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our U.S. Government business base and contract mix and our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs. We include the portion of
those environmental costs expected to be allocated to our non-U.S. Government contracts, or that is determined to not be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts, in our cost of sales at the time the liability is established. Our environmental
receivables are recorded on our Balance Sheets within other assets, both current and noncurrent. We project costs and recovery of costs over approximately 20 years.  
  Investments in marketable securities    Investments in marketable securities consist of debt and equity securities
and are classified as trading securities. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the fair value of our trading securities totaled $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion and was included in other noncurrent assets on our Balance Sheets. Our trading securities
are held in a separate trust, which includes investments to fund our deferred compensation plan liabilities. Net gains on trading securities in 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $65 million, $64 million and $67 million. Gains and losses on these investments
are included in other unallocated, net within cost of sales on our Statements of Earnings in order to align the classification of changes in the market value of investments held for the plan with changes in the value of the corresponding plan
liabilities.        Equity method investments    Investments where we have the ability to exercise
significant influence, but do not control, are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are included in other noncurrent assets on our Balance Sheets. Significant influence typically exists if we have a 20% to 50% ownership interest
in the investee. Under this method of accounting, our share of the net earnings or losses of the investee is included in operating profit in other income, net on our Statements of Earnings since the activities of the investee are closely aligned
with the operations of the business segment holding the investment. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such investments may be impaired. If a
decline in the value of an equity method investment is determined to be other than temporary, a loss is recorded in earnings in the current period. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, our equity method investments totaled $971 million and $914
million, which primarily are composed of our Space Systems business segment s investment in United Launch Alliance (ULA), as further described in Note 12, and our Aeronautics business segment s investment in Advanced Military Maintenance,
Repair and Overhaul Center. Our share of net earnings related to our equity method investees was $342 million in 2014, $321 million in 2013 and $277 million in 2012, of which approximately $280 million, $300 million and $265 million related to our
Space Systems business segment.     Derivative financial instruments    We use derivative instruments principally
to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We do not enter into or hold derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes. We transact business globally and are subject to risks
associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. We enter into foreign currency hedges such as forward and option contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change. These contracts hedge forecasted foreign currency
transactions in order to mitigate fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We designate foreign currency hedges as cash flow hedges. We also are exposed to the impact of interest rate
changes primarily through our borrowing activities. For fixed rate borrowings, we may use variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings in order to reduce the amount of interest paid. These
swaps are designated as fair value hedges. For variable rate borrowings, we may use fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting variable rate borrowings to fixed rate borrowings in order to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on
earnings. These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges. We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting, which are intended to mitigate certain economic exposures.  
 We record derivatives at their fair value. The classification of gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair values of
derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. Adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either reflected in earnings and largely
offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are
attributable to the  
      68  

Table of Contents  

ineffective portion of the hedges or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. The aggregate notional amount of our
outstanding interest rate swaps at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion. The aggregate notional amount of our outstanding foreign currency hedges at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $804 million and $1.0 billion.
Derivative instruments did not have a material impact on net earnings and comprehensive income during 2014, 2013 and 2012. Substantially all of our derivatives are designated for hedge accounting. See Note 15 for more information on the fair value
measurements related to our derivative instruments.     Recent Accounting Pronouncements    In May 2014, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued a new standard that will change the way we recognize revenue and significantly expand the disclosure requirements for revenue arrangements. Unless the FASB delays the effective date of the new
standard, it will be effective for us beginning on January 1, 2017 and may be adopted either retrospectively or on a modified retrospective basis whereby the new standard would be applied to new contracts and existing contracts with remaining
performance obligations as of the effective date, with a cumulative catch-up adjustment recorded to beginning retained earnings at the effective date for existing contracts with remaining performance obligations. Early adoption is not
permitted. We are currently evaluating the methods of adoption allowed by the new standard and the effect the standard is expected to have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As the new standard will supersede
substantially all existing revenue guidance affecting us under GAAP, it could impact revenue and cost recognition on thousands of contracts across all our business segments, in addition to our business processes and our information technology
systems. As a result, our evaluation of the effect of the new standard will extend over future periods.  
   Note 2   Earnings Per Share   
  The weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per common share were as follows
(in millions):      
   We compute basic and diluted earnings per common share by dividing net earnings by the
respective weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the periods presented. Our calculation of diluted earnings per common share also includes the dilutive effects for the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units and
exercise of outstanding stock options based on the treasury stock method.    The computation of diluted earnings per common
share excluded 2.4 million and 8.0 million stock options for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive, primarily due to their exercise prices exceeding the average market prices
of our common stock during the respective periods. There were no anti-dilutive equity awards for the year ended December 31, 2014.  
   Note 3   Information on Business Segments   
  We operate in five business segments: Aeronautics, Information Systems   Global Solutions
(IS GS), MFC, Mission Systems and Training (MST) and Space Systems. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. The following is a brief description of the activities of our business segments:  

Aeronautics    Engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support and upgrade of advanced
military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles and related technologies.         

Information Systems   Global Solutions    Provides advanced technology systems and expertise, integrated information technology
solutions and management services across a broad spectrum of applications for civil, defense, intelligence and other government customers.         

Missiles and Fire Control    Provides air and missile defense systems; tactical missiles and air-to-ground precision strike weapon
systems; logistics and other technical services; fire control systems; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support and integration services; and manned and unmanned ground vehicles.     
      69  

Table of Contents  

Mission Systems and Training    Provides ship and submarine mission and combat systems; mission systems and sensors for rotary and
fixed-wing aircraft; sea and land-based missile defense systems; radar systems; the Littoral Combat Ship; simulation and training services; and unmanned systems and technologies.     

Space Systems    Engaged in the research and development, design, engineering and production of satellites, strategic and defensive
missile systems and space transportation systems. Space Systems is also responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Operating profit for our Space Systems business segment includes our share
of earnings for our investment in ULA, which provides expendable launch services to the U.S. Government.     
 The financial information in the following tables includes the results of businesses we have acquired during the past three
years (Note 13) from their respective dates of acquisition. The business segment operating results in the following tables exclude businesses included in discontinued operations (Note 13) for all years presented. Net sales of our business segments
exclude intersegment sales as these activities are eliminated in consolidation.    Operating profit of our business segments
includes our share of earnings or losses from equity method investees because the operating activities of the equity method investees are closely aligned with the operations of our business segments. Operating profit of our business segments
excludes the FAS/CAS pension adjustment described below; expense for stock-based compensation; the effects of items not considered part of management s evaluation of segment operating performance, such as charges related to goodwill impairments
(Note 1) and significant severance actions (Note 14); gains or losses from divestitures (Note 13); the effects of certain legal settlements; corporate costs not allocated to our business segments; and other miscellaneous corporate activities. These
items are included in the reconciling item  Unallocated items  between operating profit from our business segments and our consolidated operating profit.  
 Our business segments  results of operations include pension expense only as calculated under U.S. Government Cost
Accounting Standards (CAS), which we refer to as CAS pension cost. We recover CAS pension cost through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, the CAS pension cost is recognized in each of our business
segments  net sales and cost of sales. Since our consolidated financial statements must present pension expense calculated in accordance with the financial accounting standards (FAS) requirements under GAAP, which we refer to as FAS pension
expense, the FAS/CAS pension adjustment increases or decreases the CAS pension cost recorded in our business segments  results of operations to equal the FAS pension expense. As a result, to the extent that CAS pension cost exceeds FAS pension
expense, which occurred for 2014, we have FAS/CAS pension income and, conversely, to the extent FAS pension expense exceeds CAS pension cost, which occurred for 2013 and 2012, we have FAS/CAS pension expense.  
      70  

Table of Contents  

   Selected Financial Data by Business Segment   
 Summary operating results for each of our business segments were as follows (in millions):  

(a)   
   FAS pension expense in 2014 was less than in 2013 due to higher discount rates used to calculate our qualified defined benefit obligations and net
periodic benefit cost. Additionally, beginning in the quarter ended September 28, 2014 FAS pension expense was reduced by the June 2014 plan amendments to certain of our defined benefit pension plans to freeze future retirement benefits,
partially offset by the impact of using new longevity assumptions (Note 9).     

(b)   
   The higher CAS pension cost reflects the impact of phasing in CAS Harmonization, partially offset by the effect of higher interest rates required by
the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 (HATFA), enacted on August 8, 2014.     

(c)   
   We recognized non-cash goodwill impairment charges related to the Technical Services reporting unit within our MFC business segment in 2014 and
2013. See Note 1 for more information.     

(d)   
   See Note 14 for information on charges related to certain severance actions at our business segments. Severance charges for initiatives that are not
significant are included in business segment operating profit.     
      71  

Table of Contents  

   Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued)   

72  

Table of Contents  

   Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued)   
  Net Sales by Customer Category   
 Net sales by customer category were as follows (in millions):  

(a)   
   International sales include foreign military sales contracted through the U.S. Government, direct commercial sales with international governments
and commercial and other sales to international customers.       Our Aeronautics business segment includes
our largest program, the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter, an international multi-role, multi-variant, stealth fighter aircraft. Net sales for the F-35 program represented 17%, 16% and 14% of our total net sales during 2014, 2013 and 2012.
 
      73  

Table of Contents  

   Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued)   
 Total assets, goodwill and customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred for each of our business segments were as
follows (in millions):      

(a)   
   We have no significant long-lived assets located in foreign countries.     

(b)   
   Corporate assets primarily include cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes, environmental receivables and investments held in a separate
trust.     

(c)   
   During 2014, goodwill increased $681 million due to acquisitions primarily consisting of Zeta Associates, Inc. (Zeta) at our Space Systems business
segment and Systems Made Simple and Industrial Defender, Inc. (Industrial Defender) at our IS GS business segment (Note 13) and also decreased by $119 million due to a non-cash impairment charge related to our MFC business segment (Note 1).
During 2013, the decrease in goodwill was primarily due to a non-cash impairment charge of $195 million related to our MFC business segment (Note 1), partially offset by the acquisition of Amor Group Ltd. (Amor) at our IS GS business segment
(Note 13). Total accumulated goodwill impairment loss as of the beginning of 2014 was $195 million and related entirely to our MFC business segment.     
   Note 4   Receivables, net   
  Receivables, net consisted of the following (in millions):  

74  

Table of Contents  

  We expect to bill substantially all of the December 31, 2014 unbilled costs
and accrued profits during 2015.  
   Note 5   Inventories, net   
  Inventories, net consisted of the following (in millions):  
   
   Work-in-process inventories at December 31, 2014 and 2013 included general and
administrative costs of $698 million and $630 million. General and administrative costs incurred and recorded in inventories totaled $2.6 billion in 2014 and $2.4 billion in both 2013 and 2012 and general and administrative costs charged to cost of
sales from inventories totaled $2.6 billion in 2014 and $2.4 billion in both 2013 and 2012.  
   Note 6   Property, Plant and Equipment, net   
  Property, plant and equipment, net consisted of the following (in millions):  

Note 7   Income Taxes   
  Our provision for federal and foreign income tax expense for continuing operations consisted of the
following (in millions):      
   State income taxes are included in our operations as general and administrative costs and,
under U.S. Government regulations, are allowable costs in establishing prices for the products and services we sell to the U.S. Government. Therefore, a substantial portion of state income taxes is included in our net sales and cost of sales. As a
result, the impact of certain transactions on our operating profit and of other matters presented in these financial statements is disclosed net of state income taxes. Our total net state income tax expense was $207 million in 2014, $121 million for
2013 and $183 million for 2012.  
      75  

Table of Contents  

  Our reconciliation of the 35% U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to actual
income tax expense for continuing operations is as follows (in millions):      
   Our tax-deductible pension contributions were significantly higher in 2012 than in 2013 or
2014 and, accordingly, our U.S. manufacturing deduction for 2012 was significantly reduced.    We recognized tax benefits of
$66 million in 2014 and $96 million in 2013 from U.S. research and development (R D) tax credits, including benefits attributable to prior periods. In 2014, the R D tax credit was temporarily reinstated for one year, retroactive to the
beginning of 2014, which reduced income tax expense by approximately $45 million. In 2013, the R D tax credit was temporarily reinstated for two years, retroactive to the beginning of 2012. As a result, income tax expense for 2013 reflects the
credit for all of 2013 and 2012, which reduced income tax expense by approximately $76 million.    We receive a tax
deduction for dividends paid on shares of our common stock held by certain of our defined contribution plans with an employee stock ownership plan feature. The amount of the tax deduction has increased as we increased our dividend over the last
three years, partially offset by a decline in the number of shares in these plans.    A limited amount of the non-cash
goodwill impairment charges will be deductible for tax purposes. Accordingly, the 2014 and 2013 non-cash goodwill impairment charges (Note 1) of $119 million and $195 million increased our 2014 and 2013 effective tax rates.  
 We participate in the IRS Compliance Assurance Process program. The IRS examination of the year 2012 was completed in the
fourth quarter of 2013. The examinations of the years 2013 and 2014 remain under review. We also resolved certain issues in our 2009 tax return with the IRS Appeals Division in 2012. The resolution of these examinations and issues did not have a
material impact on our effective tax rates.    The primary components of our federal and foreign deferred income tax assets
and liabilities at December 31 were as follows (in millions):      

(a)   
   The increase in 2014 was primarily due to using a lower discount rate for the annual measurement adjustment related to our postretirement benefit
plans (Note 9).     

(b)   
   A valuation allowance was provided against certain foreign company deferred tax assets arising from carryforwards of unused tax benefits.

(c)   
   Includes deferred taxes associated with the exchange of debt securities in prior years.     

(d)   
   Includes net foreign current deferred tax liabilities, which are included on the Balance Sheets in other current liabilities.     

      76  

Table of Contents  

  As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, our liabilities associated with
unrecognized tax benefits are not material.    We and our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
jurisdiction and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the statute of limitations is no longer open for U.S. federal or non-U.S. income tax examinations for the years before 2011, other than with respect to refunds.  
 U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on earnings of $291 million, $222 million and $211
million that have not been distributed by our non-U.S. companies as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings, thereby indefinitely postponing their remittance to the U.S. If these earnings had
been remitted, we estimate that the additional income taxes after foreign tax credits would have been approximately $55 million in 2014, $50 million in 2013 and $45 million in 2012.  
 Our federal and foreign income tax payments, net of refunds received, were $1.5 billion in 2014, $787 million in 2013 and $890
million in 2012. Our 2014 and 2013 net payments reflect a $200 million and $550 million refund from the IRS primarily attributable to our tax-deductible discretionary pension contributions during the fourth quarters of 2013 and 2012, and our 2012
net payments reflect a $153 million refund from the IRS related to a 2011 capital loss carryback.  
   Note 8   Debt   
  Our long-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):  
   
   In August 2014, we entered into a new $1.5 billion revolving credit facility with a syndicate
of banks and concurrently terminated our existing $1.5 billion revolving credit facility which was scheduled to expire in August 2016. The new credit facility expires August 2019 and we may request and the banks may grant, at their discretion, an
increase to the new credit facility of up to an additional $500 million. The credit facility also includes a sublimit of up to $300 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. There were no borrowings outstanding under the new facility
through December 31, 2014. Borrowings under the new credit facility would be unsecured and bear interest at rates based, at our option, on a Eurodollar Rate or a Base Rate, as defined in the new credit facility. Each bank s obligation to
make loans under the credit facility is subject to, among other things, our compliance with various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and certain of our subsidiaries  ability to encumber assets
and a covenant not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the credit facility. The leverage ratio covenant excludes the adjustments recognized in stockholders  equity related to postretirement benefit plans. As of December 31,
2014, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in the credit facility, as well as in our debt agreements.    We
have agreements in place with financial institutions to provide for the issuance of commercial paper. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding during 2014 or 2013. If we were to issue commercial paper, the borrowings would be supported
by the credit facility.    In April 2013, we repaid $150 million of long-term notes with a fixed interest rate of 7.38% due
to their scheduled maturities. During the next five years, we have scheduled long-term debt maturities of $952 million due in 2016 and $900 million due in 2019. Interest payments were $326 million in 2014, $340 million in 2013 and $378 million in
2012. All of our existing unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness rank equally in right of payment.  
   Note 9   Postretirement Plans   
   Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Plans   
 Many of our employees are covered by qualified defined benefit pension plans and we provide certain health care and life
insurance benefits to eligible retirees (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). We also sponsor nonqualified defined benefit pension plans to provide for benefits in excess of qualified plan limits. Non-union represented employees hired after
December 2005 do not participate in our qualified defined benefit pension plans, but are eligible to participate in a qualified  
      77  

Table of Contents  

defined contribution plan in addition to our other retirement savings plans. They also have the ability to participate in our retiree medical plans, but we do not subsidize the cost of their
participation in those plans as we do with employees hired before January 1, 2006. Over the last few years, we have negotiated similar changes with various labor organizations such that new union represented employees do not participate in our
defined benefit pension plans. In June 2014, we amended certain of our qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans for non-union employees to freeze future retirement benefits. Currently, the calculation of retirement benefits under the
affected defined benefit pension plans is determined by a formula that takes into account the participants  years of credited service and average compensation. The freeze will take effect in two stages. Beginning on January 1, 2016, the
pay-based component of the formula used to determine retirement benefits will be frozen so that future pay increases, annual incentive bonuses or other amounts earned for or related to periods after December 31, 2015 will not be used to
calculate retirement benefits. On January 1, 2020, the service-based component of the formula used to determine retirement benefits will also be frozen so that participants will no longer earn further credited service for any period after
December 31, 2019. When the freeze is complete, the majority of our salaried employees will have transitioned to an enhanced defined contribution retirement savings plan.  
 We have made contributions to trusts established to pay future benefits to eligible retirees and dependents, including
Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association trusts and 401(h) accounts, the assets of which will be used to pay expenses of certain retiree medical plans. We use December 31 as the measurement date. Benefit obligations as of the end of
each year reflect assumptions in effect as of those dates. Net periodic benefit cost is based on assumptions in effect at the end of the respective preceding year.  
 The rules related to accounting for postretirement benefit plans under GAAP require us to recognize on a plan-by-plan basis
the funded status of our postretirement benefit plans as either an asset or a liability on our Balance Sheets. There is a corresponding non-cash adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax benefits recorded as deferred tax assets,
in stockholders  equity. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan s assets and the benefit obligation of the plan.  
 The net periodic benefit cost recognized each year included the following (in millions):  

(a)   
   Total net periodic benefit cost associated with our qualified defined benefit plans represents pension expense calculated in accordance with GAAP
(FAS pension expense). We are required to calculate pension expense in accordance with both GAAP and CAS rules, each of which results in a different calculated amount of pension expense. The CAS pension cost is recovered through the pricing of our
products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, is recognized in net sales and cost of sales for products and services. We include the difference between FAS pension expense and CAS pension cost, referred to as the FAS/CAS pension
adjustment, as a component of other unallocated, net on our Statements of Earnings. The FAS/CAS pension adjustment, which was income of $376 million in 2014 and expense of $482 million in 2013 and $830 million in 2012, effectively adjusts the
amount of CAS pension cost in the business segment operating profit so that pension expense recorded on our Statements of Earnings is equal to FAS pension expense.     
      78  

Table of Contents  

  The following table provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets
and unfunded status related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans and our retiree medical and life insurance plans (in millions):      

(a)   
   Benefits paid in 2014 for qualified defined benefit pension plans include $427 million in the form of lump-sum settlement payments to former
employees who had not commenced receiving their vested benefit payments. The corresponding benefit obligation that was released was $529 million. The settlement payments had no impact on our 2014 FAS pension expense and CAS pension cost.

(b)   
   The June 2014 plan amendment which resulted in freezing the pay-based component of the formula used to determine retirement benefits under the
affected plans reduced our qualified defined benefit pension obligations by $4.6 billion, which resulted in a corresponding reduction, net of tax, in the accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL) component of stockholders  equity. This amount
is being recognized as a reduction of net periodic benefit cost (i.e., amortization of net prior service credit) over the estimated remaining service period of the covered employees, which is approximately 10 years and began in the third quarter of
2014.       The following table provides amounts recognized on our Balance Sheets related to our qualified
defined benefit pension plans and our retiree medical and life insurance plans (in millions):      

79  

Table of Contents  

  The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for all qualified defined benefit
pension plans was $45.2 billion and $37.5 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, of which $45.0 billion and $37.3 billion related to plans where the ABO was in excess of plan assets. The ABO represents benefits accrued without assuming future
compensation increases to plan participants. Certain key information related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 is as follows (in millions):  

(a)   
   Represent accrued pension liabilities, which are included on our Balance Sheets.     

(b)   
   Represent prepaid pension assets, which are included on our Balance Sheets in other noncurrent assets.     
 We also sponsor nonqualified defined benefit plans to provide benefits in excess of qualified plan limits. The aggregate
liabilities for these plans at both December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, which also represent the plans  unfunded status. We have set aside certain assets totaling $397 million and $373 million as of
December 31, 2014 and 2013 in a separate trust which we expect to be used to pay obligations under our nonqualified defined benefit plans. In accordance with GAAP, those assets may not be used to offset the amount of the benefit obligation
similar to the postretirement benefit plans in the table above. The unrecognized net actuarial losses at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $662 million and $480 million. The unrecognized prior service credit at December 31, 2014 was $121
million and at December 31, 2013 was not material. The expense associated with these plans totaled $115 million in 2014, $108 million in 2013 and $107 million in 2012. We also sponsor a small number of other postemployment plans and foreign
benefit plans. The aggregate liability for the other postemployment plans was $88 million and $108 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The expense for the other postemployment plans, as well as the liability and expense associated with
the foreign benefit plans, was not material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The actuarial assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense associated with our nonqualified defined benefit plans and
postemployment plans are similar to those assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life insurance plans as described below.  
 The following table provides the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) related to postretirement benefit
plans, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in millions):      
   We expect that approximately $1.3 billion, or about $850 million net of tax, of actuarial
losses and prior service credit related to postretirement benefit plans included in accumulated other comprehensive loss at the end of 2014 to be recognized  
      80  

Table of Contents  

in net periodic benefit cost during 2015. Of this amount, $1.2 billion, or $781 million net of tax, primarily relates to actuarial losses associated with our qualified defined benefit plans and
is included in our expected 2015 pension expense of $1.1 billion.      Actuarial Assumptions    
 The actuarial assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations at December 31 of each year and to determine the net
periodic benefit cost for each subsequent year, were as follows:      
   The decrease in the discount rate from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014
resulted in an increase in the projected benefit obligations of our qualified defined benefit pension plans of approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2014. The increase in the discount rate from December 31, 2012 to December 31,
2013 resulted in a decrease in the projected benefit obligations of our qualified defined benefit pension plans of approximately $4.4 billion at December 31, 2013.  
 The long-term rate of return assumption represents the expected long-term rate of earnings on the funds invested, or to be
invested, to provide for the benefits included in the benefit obligations. That assumption is based on several factors including historical market index returns, the anticipated long-term allocation of plan assets, the historical return data for the
trust funds, plan expenses and the potential to outperform market index returns.      Plan Assets    
  Investment policies and strategies    Lockheed Martin Investment Management Company (LMIMCo), our  wholly-owned  subsidiary, has the fiduciary responsibility for making investment decisions related to the assets of our postretirement benefit plans. LMIMCo s investment objectives for the assets of these plans
are (1) to minimize the net present value of expected funding contributions; (2) to ensure there is a high probability that each plan meets or exceeds our actuarial long-term rate of return assumptions; and (3) to diversify assets to
minimize the risk of large losses. The nature and duration of benefit obligations, along with assumptions concerning asset class returns and return correlations, are considered when determining an appropriate asset allocation to achieve the
investment objectives.    Investment policies and strategies governing the assets of the plans are designed to achieve
investment objectives within prudent risk parameters. Risk management practices include the use of external investment managers; the maintenance of a portfolio diversified by asset class, investment approach and security holdings; and the
maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet benefit obligations as they come due.    LMIMCo s investment policies
require that asset allocations of postretirement benefit plans be maintained within the following approximate ranges:      
 
      81  

Table of Contents  

   Fair value measurements    The rules related to accounting for
postretirement benefit plans under GAAP require certain fair value disclosures related to postretirement benefit plan assets, even though those assets are not included on our Balance Sheets. The following table presents the fair value of the assets
(in millions) of our qualified defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life insurance plans by asset category and their level within the fair value hierarchy, which has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to
determine fair value. Level 1 refers to fair values determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets, Level 2 refers to fair values estimated using significant other observable inputs and Level 3 includes fair values
estimated using significant unobservable inputs.      

(a)   
   Cash and cash equivalents, equity securities, fixed income securities and commodities included derivative assets and liabilities whose fair values
were not material as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. LMIMCo s investment policies restrict the use of derivatives to either establish long exposures for purposes of expediency or capital efficiency or to hedge risks to the extent of a
plan s current exposure to such risks. Most derivative transactions are settled on a daily basis.     
 As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the assets associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans were not material
and have not been included in the table above.    The following table presents the changes during 2014 and 2013 in the fair
value of plan assets categorized as Level 3 in the preceding table (in millions):      
    Valuation techniques    Cash equivalents are mostly comprised of short-term
money-market instruments and are valued at cost, which approximates fair value.  
      82  

Table of Contents  

  U.S. equity securities and international equity securities categorized as Level 1
are traded on active national and international exchanges and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading day of the year. For U.S. equity securities and international equity securities not traded on an active exchange, or if the closing
price is not available, the trustee obtains indicative quotes from a pricing vendor, broker or investment manager. These securities are categorized as Level 2 if the custodian obtains corroborated quotes from a pricing vendor or categorized as Level
3 if the custodian obtains uncorroborated quotes from a broker or investment manager.    Commingled equity funds are
investment vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value (NAV) provided by the fund managers. The NAV is the total value of the fund divided by the number of shares outstanding. Commingled equity funds are categorized as Level 1 if traded at their NAV
on a nationally recognized securities exchange or categorized as Level 2 if the NAV is corroborated by observable market data (e.g., purchases or sales activity) and we are able to redeem our investment in the near-term.  
 Fixed income investments categorized as Level 2 are valued by the trustee using pricing models that use verifiable observable
market data (e.g., interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals and credit spreads), bids provided by brokers or dealers or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics. Fixed income investments are categorized
at Level 3 when valuations using observable inputs are unavailable. The trustee obtains pricing based on indicative quotes or bid evaluations from vendors, brokers or the investment manager.  
 Private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds are valued using the NAV based on valuation models of underlying
securities which generally include significant unobservable inputs that cannot be corroborated using verifiable observable market data. Valuations for private equity funds and real estate funds are determined by the general partners. Depending on
the nature of the assets, the general partners may use various valuation methodologies, including the income and market approaches in their models. The market approach consists of analyzing market transactions for comparable assets while the income
approach uses earnings or the net present value of estimated future cash flows adjusted for liquidity and other risk factors. Hedge funds are valued by independent administrators using various pricing sources and models based on the nature of the
securities. Private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds are generally categorized as Level 3 as we cannot fully redeem our investment in the near-term.  
 Commodities are traded on an active commodity exchange and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading day of the
year.      Contributions and Expected Benefit Payments    
 The funding of our qualified defined benefit pension plans is determined in accordance with ERISA, as amended by the PPA, and
in a manner consistent with CAS and Internal Revenue Code rules. In 2014, we made contributions of $2.0 billion related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans. We do not plan to make contributions to our qualified defined benefit pension
plans in 2015 through 2017 because none are required using current assumptions.    The following table presents estimated
future benefit payments, which reflect expected future employee service, as of December 31, 2014 (in millions):      
    Defined Contribution Plans   
 We maintain a number of defined contribution plans, most with 401(k) features, that cover substantially all of our employees.
Under the provisions of our 401(k) plans, we match most employees  eligible contributions at rates specified in the plan documents. Our contributions were $385 million in 2014, $383 million in 2013 and $380 million in 2012, the majority of
which were funded in our common stock. Our defined contribution plans held approximately 41.7 million and 44.7 million shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.  
   Note 10   Stockholders  Equity   
  At December 31, 2014 and 2013, our authorized capital was composed of 1.5 billion shares of common
stock and 50 million shares of series preferred stock. Of the 316 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2014, 314 million shares were considered outstanding for Balance Sheet presentation
purposes; the remaining  
      83  

Table of Contents  

shares were held in a separate trust. Of the 321 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2013, 319 million shares were considered outstanding for
Balance Sheet presentation purposes; the remaining shares were held in a separate trust. No shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2014 or 2013.  
  Repurchases of Common Stock   
 During 2014, we repurchased 11.5 million shares of our common stock for $1.9 billion. During 2013 and 2012, we paid $1.8
billion and $990 million to repurchase 16.2 million and 11.1 million shares of our common stock. We reduced stockholders  equity by $1.7 billion and $1.0 billion which represents the 16.0 million and 11.3 million shares of
common stock we committed to repurchase during 2013 and 2012. Of the shares we committed to during 2012, a portion settled in cash during January 2013.  
 In September 2014, our Board of Directors approved a $2.0 billion increase to our share repurchase program. Inclusive of this
increase, the total remaining authorization for future common share repurchases under our program was $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2014. As we repurchase our common shares, we reduce common stock for the $1 of par value of the shares
repurchased, with the excess purchase price over par value recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Due to the volume of repurchases made under our share repurchase program, additional paid-in capital was reduced to zero, with the
remainder of the excess purchase price over par value of $1.1 billion and $434 million recorded as a reduction of retained earnings in 2014 and 2013.  
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss   
 Changes in the balance of AOCL, net of income taxes, consisted of the following (in millions):  

(a)   
   AOCL related to postretirement benefit plans is shown net of tax benefits at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 of $6.4 billion, $5.3 billion and
$7.4 billion. These tax benefits include amounts recognized on our income tax returns as current deductions and deferred income taxes, which will be recognized on our tax returns in future years. See Note 7 and Note 9 for more information on our
income taxes and postretirement benefit plans.     
      84  

Table of Contents  

Note 11   Stock-Based Compensation   
  During 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded non-cash stock-based compensation expense totaling $164 million,
$189 million and $167 million, which is included as a component of other unallocated, net on our Statements of Earnings. The net impact to earnings for the respective years was $107 million, $122 million and $108 million.  
 As of December 31, 2014, we had $91 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested awards, which is
expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6 years. We received cash from the exercise of stock options totaling $308 million, $827 million and $440 million during 2014, 2013 and 2012. In addition, our income tax liabilities for
2014, 2013 and 2012 were reduced by $215 million, $158 million, $96 million due to recognized tax benefits on stock-based compensation arrangements.  
  Stock-Based Compensation Plans   
 Under plans approved by our stockholders, we are authorized to grant key employees stock-based incentive awards, including
options to purchase common stock, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units (RSUs), performance stock units (PSUs) or other stock units. The exercise price of options to purchase common stock may not be less than the fair market value of our
stock on the date of grant. No award of stock options may become fully vested prior to the third anniversary of the grant and no portion of a stock option grant may become vested in less than one year. The minimum vesting period for restricted stock
or stock units payable in stock is three years. Award agreements may provide for shorter or pro-rated vesting periods or vesting following termination of employment in the case of death, disability, divestiture, retirement, change of control or
layoff. The maximum term of a stock option or any other award is 10 years.    At December 31, 2014, inclusive of the
shares reserved for outstanding stock options, RSUs and PSUs, we had 19 million shares reserved for issuance under the plans. At December 31, 2014, 7.8 million of the shares reserved for issuance remained available for grant under our
stock-based compensation plans. We issue new shares upon the exercise of stock options or when restrictions on RSUs and PSUs have been satisfied.  
  RSUs   
 The following table summarizes activity related to nonvested RSUs during 2014:  
   
   RSUs are valued based on the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant. Employees
who are granted RSUs receive the right to receive shares of stock after completion of the vesting period; however, the shares are not issued and the employees cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs
vest, generally three years from the date of the award. Employees who are granted RSUs receive dividend-equivalent cash payments only upon vesting. For these RSU awards, the grant-date fair value is equal to the closing market price of our common
stock on the date of grant less a discount to reflect the delay in payment of dividend-equivalent cash payments. We recognize the grant-date fair value of RSUs, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service
period, which beginning with the RSUs granted in 2013 is shorter than the vesting period if the employee is retirement eligible on the date of grant or will become retirement eligible before the end of the vesting period.  
      85  

Table of Contents  

   Stock Options   
 We generally recognize compensation cost for stock options ratably over the three-year vesting period. At December 31,
2014 and 2013, there were 6.3 million (weighted average exercise price of $84.62) and 10.2 million (weighted average exercise price of $83.65) stock options outstanding. Stock options outstanding at December 31, 2014 have a weighted
average remaining contractual life of approximately four years and an aggregate intrinsic value of $681 million. Of the stock options outstanding, 5.6 million (weighted average exercise price of $84.96) have vested as of December 31, 2014
and those stock options have a weighted average remaining contractual life of approximately four years and an aggregate intrinsic value of $601 million. There were 3.7 million (weighted average exercise price of $82.13) stock options exercised
during 2014. We did not grant stock options to employees during 2014 and 2013.    The following table pertains to stock
options granted in 2012, in addition to stock options that vested and were exercised in 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in millions, except for weighted-average grant-date fair value of stock options granted):  
   
   In 2012, we estimated the fair value for stock options at the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model, which required us to make certain assumptions. We used the following weighted average assumptions in the model: risk-free interest rate of 0.78%, dividend yield of 5.40%, a five year historical volatility factor
of 0.28 and an expected option life of five years.     PSUs   
 In January 2014, we granted certain employees PSUs with an aggregate target award of approximately 0.2 million shares of
our common stock. The PSUs vest three years from the grant date based on continuous service, with the number of shares earned (0% to 200% of the target award) depending upon the extent to which we achieve certain financial and market performance
targets measured over the period from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2016. About half of the PSUs were valued at $146.85 per PSU in a manner similar to RSUs mentioned above as the financial targets are based on our operating results.
We recognize the grant-date fair value of these PSUs, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense ratably over the vesting period based on the number of awards expected to vest at each reporting date. The remaining PSUs were valued at
$134.15 per PSU using a Monte Carlo model as the performance target is related to our total shareholder return relative to our peer group. We recognize the grant-date fair value of these awards, less estimated forfeitures, as compensation expense
ratably over the vesting period.  
   Note 12   Legal Proceedings, Commitments and Contingencies   
  We are a party to or have property subject to litigation and other proceedings that arise in the ordinary
course of our business, including matters arising under provisions relating to the protection of the environment and are subject to contingencies related to certain businesses we previously owned. These types of matters could result in fines,
penalties, compensatory or treble damages or non-monetary relief. We believe the probability is remote that the outcome of each of these matters, including the legal proceedings mentioned below, will have a material adverse effect on the Corporation
as a whole, notwithstanding that the unfavorable resolution of any matter may have a material effect on our net earnings in any particular interim reporting period. Among the factors that we consider in this assessment are the nature of existing
legal proceedings and claims, the asserted or possible damages or loss contingency (if estimable), the progress of the case, existing law and precedent, the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, our experience in similar cases and
the experience of other companies, the facts available to us at the time of assessment and how we intend to respond to the proceeding or claim. Our assessment of these factors may change over time as individual proceedings or claims progress.  
 Although we cannot predict the outcome of legal or other proceedings with certainty, GAAP requires us to disclose an estimate
of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss or make a statement that such an estimate cannot be made for contingencies where there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. We have a thorough process to determine
an estimate of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss before we conclude and disclose that an estimate cannot be made. Accordingly, unless otherwise indicated below in our discussion of legal proceedings, a reasonably possible loss or range
of loss associated with any individual legal proceeding cannot be estimated.  
      86  

Table of Contents  

   Legal Proceedings   
 On April 24, 2009, we filed a declaratory judgment action against the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority and
its Capital Construction Company (collectively, the MTA) asking the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to find that the MTA is in material breach of our agreement based on the MTA s failure to provide access to sites
where work must be performed and the customer-furnished equipment necessary to complete the contract. The MTA filed an answer and counterclaim alleging that we breached the contract and subsequently terminated the contract for alleged default. The
primary damages sought by the MTA are the cost to complete the contract and potential re-procurement costs. While we are unable to estimate the cost of another contractor to complete the contract and the costs of re-procurement, we note that our
contract with the MTA had a total value of $323 million, of which $241 million was paid to us, and that the MTA is seeking damages of approximately $190 million. We dispute the MTA s allegations and are defending against them. Additionally,
following an investigation, our sureties on a performance bond related to this matter, who were represented by independent counsel, concluded that the MTA s termination of the contract was improper. Finally, our declaratory judgment action was
later amended to include claims for monetary damages against the MTA of approximately $95 million. This matter was taken under submission by the District Court on December 5, 2014, after a five-week bench trial and the filing of post-trial
pleadings by the parties. We expect a decision in the second or third quarter of 2015.    On August 28, 2003, the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ) filed complaints in partial intervention in two lawsuits filed under the civil qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, United States ex rel. Natural
Resources Defense Council, et al., v. Lockheed Martin Corporation, et al., and United States ex rel. John D. Tillson v. Lockheed Martin Energy Systems, Inc., et al. The DOJ alleges that we committed violations of the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act at the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant by not properly handling, storing and transporting hazardous waste and that we violated the False Claims Act by misleading Department of Energy officials and state regulators about the nature and
extent of environmental noncompliance at the plant. The complaint does not allege a specific calculation of damages. In April 2013, the parties attended a settlement conference ordered by the magistrate judge. The conference focused on the
parties  sharply differing views of the merits of the case and did not significantly contribute to our understanding of the damages sought. The parties participated in confidential mediation pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure Rule 408
in December 2014. The plaintiffs made settlement demands at this mediation but these were not tied to any theory of damages, were not apportioned between the False Claims Act and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act allegations (as to which our
defenses differ) and did not provide insight into what damages plaintiffs would seek to prove if this matter proceeds to trial. Consequently, we continue to be unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss, which could be incurred
if the plaintiffs were to prevail, but we believe we have substantial defenses. We anticipate filing motions for summary judgment in the second quarter of 2015.  
  Environmental Matters   
 We are involved in environmental proceedings and potential proceedings relating to soil and groundwater contamination,
disposal of hazardous waste and other environmental matters at several of our current or former facilities or at third-party sites where we have been designated as a potentially responsible party (PRP). A substantial portion of environmental costs
will be included in our net sales and cost of sales in future periods pursuant to U.S. Government regulations. At the time a liability is recorded for future environmental costs, we record a receivable for estimated future recovery considered
probable through the pricing of products and services to agencies of the U.S. Government, regardless of the contract form (e.g., cost-reimbursable, fixed-price). We continuously evaluate the recoverability of our environmental receivables by
assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our U.S. Government business base and contract mix and our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs. We include the portion of those environmental costs expected to be allocated to
our non-U.S. Government contracts, or that is determined to not be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts, in our cost of sales at the time the liability is established.  
 At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the aggregate amount of liabilities recorded relative to environmental matters was $965
million and $997 million, most of which are recorded in other noncurrent liabilities on our Balance Sheets. We have recorded receivables totaling $836 million and $863 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, most of which are recorded in other
noncurrent assets on our Balance Sheets, for the estimated future recovery of these costs, as we consider the recovery probable based on the factors previously mentioned. We project costs and recovery of costs over approximately 20 years.  
 Environmental cleanup activities usually span several years, which makes estimating liabilities a matter of judgment because
of uncertainties with respect to assessing the extent of the contamination as well as such factors as changing remediation technologies and continually evolving regulatory environmental standards. There are a number of former operating facilities
that we are monitoring or investigating for potential future remediation. We perform quarterly reviews of the status of our environmental remediation sites and the related liabilities and receivables. Additionally, in our quarterly
 
      87  

Table of Contents  

reviews we consider these and other factors in estimating the timing and amount of any future costs that may be required for remediation activities and record a liability when it is probable that
a loss has occurred and the loss can be reasonably estimated. The amount of liability recorded is based on our estimate of the costs to be incurred for remediation at a particular site. We do not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and
timing of future cash payments are not fixed or cannot be reliably determined. We reasonably cannot determine the extent of our financial exposure in all cases as, although a loss may be probable or reasonably possible, in some cases it is not
possible at this time to estimate the loss or reasonably possible loss or range of loss.    We also are pursuing claims for
recovery of costs incurred or contribution to site cleanup costs against other PRPs, including the U.S. Government, and are conducting remediation activities under various consent decrees and orders relating to soil, groundwater, sediment or surface
water contamination at certain sites of former or current operations. Under an agreement related to our Burbank and Glendale, California, sites, the U.S. Government reimburses us an amount equal to approximately 50% of expenditures for certain
remediation activities in its capacity as a PRP under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA).  
 On July 1, 2014, a regulation became effective in California setting the maximum level of the contaminant hexavalent
chromium in drinking water at 10 parts per billion (ppb). In May 2014, the Manufacturers and Technology Association filed a suit alleging the 10 ppb threshold is lower than is required to protect public health and thus imposes unjustified costs on
the regulated community. We cannot predict the outcome of this suit or whether other challenges may be advanced by the regulated community or environmental groups which had sought a significantly higher and lower standard, respectively. If the new
standard remains at 10 ppb, it will not have a material impact on our existing remediation costs in California.    In
addition, California is reevaluating its existing drinking water standard with respect to perchlorate and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) is also considering whether to regulate perchlorate and hexavalent chromium in drinking
water. If substantially lower standards are adopted, in either California or at the federal level, for perchlorate or, if the U.S. EPA were to adopt a standard for hexavalent chromium lower than 10 ppb, we expect a material increase in our
estimates for environmental liabilities and the related assets for the portion of the increased costs that are probable of future recovery in the pricing of our products and services for the U.S. Government. The amount that would be allocable
to our non-U.S. Government contracts or that is determined to not be recoverable under U.S. Government contracts would be expensed, which may have a material effect on our earnings in any particular interim reporting period.  
  Operating Leases   
 We rent certain equipment and facilities under operating leases. Certain major plant facilities and equipment are furnished by
the U.S. Government under short-term or cancelable arrangements. Our total rental expense under operating leases was $258 million, $315 million and $302 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012. Future minimum lease commitments at December 31, 2014 for
long-term non-cancelable operating leases were $856 million ($228 million in 2015, $181 million in 2016, $133 million in 2017, $95 million in 2018, $69 million in 2019 and $150 million in later years).  
  Letters of Credit, Surety Bonds and Third-Party Guarantees   
 We have entered into standby letters of credit, surety bonds and third-party guarantees with financial institutions and other
third parties primarily relating to advances received from customers and the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Letters of credit and surety bonds generally are available for draw down in the event we do not perform. In some
cases, we may guarantee the contractual performance of third parties such as venture partners. We had total outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and third-party guarantees aggregating $2.4 billion each at December 31, 2014 and 2013.  
 At December 31, 2014 and 2013, third-party guarantees totaled $774 million and $696 million, of which approximately 85%
and 90% related to guarantees of contractual performance of ventures to which we currently are or previously were a party. This amount represents our estimate of the maximum amount we would expect to incur upon the contractual non-performance of the
venture partners. In addition, we generally have cross-indemnities in place that may enable us to recover amounts that may be paid on behalf of a venture partner. We believe our current and former venture partners will be able to perform their
obligations, as they have done through December 31, 2014, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the guarantees. In determining our exposures, we evaluate the reputation, technical capabilities and credit quality of our
current and former venture partners.     United Launch Alliance   
 In connection with our 50% ownership interest of ULA, we and The Boeing Company (Boeing) have each received distributions from
ULA, including distributions of $527 million that we and Boeing have each received (since ULA s formation in December 2006) which are subject to agreements between us, Boeing and ULA, whereby, if ULA does not have
 
      88  

Table of Contents  

sufficient cash resources or credit capacity to make required payments under the inventory supply agreement it has with Boeing, both we and Boeing would provide to ULA, in the form of an
additional capital contribution, the level of funding required for ULA to make those payments. Any such capital contributions would not exceed the amount of the distributions subject to the agreements. Based on current expectations of ULA s
cash flow needs, we currently believe that ULA should have sufficient operating cash flows and credit capacity, including access to its $560 million revolving credit agreement from third-party financial institutions, to meet its obligations such
that we would not be required to make a contribution under these agreements.    In addition, both we and Boeing have
cross-indemnified each other for guarantees by us and Boeing of the performance and financial obligations of ULA under certain launch service contracts. We believe ULA will be able to fully perform its obligations, as it has done through
December 31, 2014, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the cross-indemnities or guarantees.    Our
50% ownership share of ULA s net assets exceeded the book value of our investment by approximately $395 million, which we are recognizing as income ratably over 10 years through 2016. This yearly amortization and our share of ULA s
net earnings are reported as equity in net earnings (losses) of equity investees in other income, net on our Statements of Earnings. Our investment in ULA totaled $706 million and $685 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013.  
   Note 13   Acquisitions and Divestitures   
   Acquisitions   
 We paid $898 million in 2014 for acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired, primarily
related to the acquisitions of Systems Made Simple, Zeta and Industrial Defender. On December 1, 2014, we completed the acquisition of all interests in Systems Made Simple, which provides solutions that leverage information technology in the
healthcare domain to improve, increase, enable and ensure the exchange and interoperability of information between patients, providers, and payers and has been included in our IS GS business segment. On August 18, 2014, we completed the
acquisition of all interests in Zeta, which designs systems that enable collection, processing, safeguarding and dissemination of information for intelligence and defense communities, which has been included in our Space Systems business segment. On
April 7, 2014, we completed the acquisition of all interest in Industrial Defender, a provider of cyber security solutions for control systems in the oil and gas, utility and chemical industries, which has been included in our IS GS
business segment. In connection with these acquisitions, we preliminarily recorded goodwill of $657 million, related to expected synergies from combining operations and value of the existing workforce. The recorded goodwill is not deductible for tax
purposes. Additionally, we recorded other intangible assets of $223 million, primarily related to customer relationships and technologies, which will be amortized over a weighted average period of eight years.  
 We paid $269 million in 2013 for acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired, primarily
related to the acquisition of all interests in Amor Group, a United Kingdom-based company specializing in information technology, civil government services and the energy market and has been included in our IS GS business segment. In connection
with these acquisitions, we recorded goodwill of $175 million, which is not deductible for tax purposes. Additionally, we recorded other intangible assets of $34 million, related to customer relationships and technologies, which will be amortized
over a weighted average period of eight years.    We paid $259 million in 2012 for acquisitions of businesses and
investments in affiliates, net of cash acquired, primarily related to the acquisitions of Chandler/May, Inc., CDL Systems Ltd. and Procerus Technologies, L.C., and each has been included within our MST business segment. These companies specialize in
the design, development, manufacturing, control and support of advanced unmanned systems. In connection with these acquisitions, we recorded goodwill of $197 million, of which $69 million will be amortized for tax purposes. Additionally, we recorded
other intangible assets of $41 million, related to technologies and customer relationships, which will be amortized over a weighted average period of six years.  
  Divestitures   
 Discontinued operations for 2013 included a benefit of $31 million resulting from the resolution of certain tax matters
related to a business previously sold prior to 2013.  
   Note 14   Restructuring Charges   
   2013 Actions   
 During 2013, we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $201 million of which $83 million, $37 million
and $81 million related to our IS GS, MST and Space Systems business segments. These charges reduced our net  
      89  

Table of Contents  

earnings by $130 million ($.40 per share) and primarily related to a plan we committed to in November 2013 to close and consolidate certain facilities and reduce our total workforce by
approximately 4,000 positions within our IS GS, MST and Space Systems business segments. These charges also include $30 million related to certain severance actions at our IS GS business segment that occurred in the first quarter of 2013,
which were subsequently paid in 2013.    The November 2013 plan resulted from a strategic review of these businesses 
facility capacity and future workload projections and is intended to better align our organization and cost structure and improve the affordability of our products and services given the changes in U.S. Government spending as well as the rapidly
changing competitive and economic landscape. Upon separation, terminated employees receive lump-sum severance payments primarily based on years of service. As of December 31, 2014, we have paid approximately $107 million in severance payments
associated with this action, of which approximately $92 million was paid during the year ended December 31, 2014. The remaining severance payments are expected to be paid through the middle of 2015.  
 In addition to the severance charges described above, we expect to incur total accelerated costs (e.g., accelerated
depreciation expense related to long-lived assets at the sites to be closed) and incremental costs (e.g., relocation of equipment and other employee related costs) of approximately $15 million, $50 million and $175 million at our IS GS, MST and
Space Systems business segments through the completion of this plan in 2015. As of December 31, 2014, we have incurred total accelerated and incremental costs of approximately $110 million, most of which was incurred during the year ended
December 31, 2014. The accelerated and incremental costs are recorded as incurred in cost of sales on our Statements of Earnings and included in the respective business segment s results of operations.  
 We expect to recover a substantial amount of the restructuring charges through the pricing of our products and services to the
U.S. Government and other customers in future periods, with the impact included in the respective business segment s results of operations.  
  2012 Actions   
 During 2012, we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $48 million of which $25 million related to our
Aeronautics business segment and $23 million related to the reorganization of our former Electronic Systems business segment. These charges reduced our net earnings by $31 million ($.09 per share) and consisted of severance costs associated with the
elimination of certain positions through either voluntary or involuntary actions. These severance actions resulted from cost reduction initiatives to better align our organization with changing economic conditions. Upon separation, terminated
employees received lump-sum severance payments primarily based on years of service, all of which were paid in 2013.  
   Note 15   Fair Value Measurements   
  Assets and liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following
(in millions):      
   Substantially all assets measured at fair value, other than derivatives, represent investments
classified as trading securities held in a separate trust to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans and are recorded in other noncurrent assets on our Balance Sheets. The fair values of equity securities and mutual funds are
determined by reference to the quoted market price per unit in active markets multiplied by the number of units held without consideration of transaction costs. The fair values of U.S. Government and other securities are determined using pricing
models that use observable inputs (e.g., interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals), bids provided by brokers or dealers or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics. The fair values of derivative
instruments, which consist of foreign currency exchange forward and interest rate swap contracts, primarily are determined based on the present value of future cash flows using model-derived valuations that use observable inputs such as interest
rates, credit spreads and foreign currency exchange rates. We did not have any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during 2014.  
      90  

Table of Contents  

  In addition to the financial instruments listed in the table above, we hold other
financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and debt. The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable approximated their fair values. The estimated fair value of our
outstanding debt was $7.9 billion and $7.4 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the outstanding principal amount was $7.0 billion at both December 31, 2014 and 2013, excluding unamortized discounts of $872 million and $882 million.
The estimated fair values of our outstanding debt were determined based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets (Level 2).  
 In the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013, we recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $119 million and $195 million in
connection with our annual goodwill impairment test. The fair value determination of goodwill was determined using a combination of a DCF analysis and market-based valuation methodologies and was classified as a Level 3 fair value measurement due to
the significance of the unobservable inputs used. See Note 1 for further information on this non-cash goodwill impairment charge and our valuation methodologies.  
   Note 16   Summary of Quarterly Information (Unaudited)   
  A summary of quarterly information is as follows (in millions, except per share data):  

(a)   
   The fourth quarter of 2014 included a charge of $119 million ($107 million after tax) related to a non-cash goodwill impairment charge (Note 1) and
a tax benefit of $45 million due to the retroactive reinstatement of the R D tax credit for 2014.     

(c)   
   The sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts do not equal the earnings per share amount included on our Statements of Earnings, primarily due
to the timing of our share repurchases during each respective year.     

ITEM 9.  
  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.     
 None.      

ITEM 9A.  
  Controls and Procedures.        Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   
 We performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2014. The
evaluation was performed with the participation of senior management of each business segment and key Corporate functions, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Based on this evaluation, the
CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were operating and effective as of December 31, 2014.  
      91  

Table of Contents  

   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our
internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes.  
 Our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2014. This assessment was based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  (2013 framework). Based on this assessment,
management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.  
 Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting, which is below.     Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recently completed fiscal quarter that
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
      92  

Table of Contents  

    Report of Ernst   Young LLP,    
   Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,    
   Regarding Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
 Board of Directors and Stockholders  
 Lockheed Martin Corporation  
 We have audited Lockheed Martin Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014,
based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). Lockheed Martin Corporation s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.    A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
 In our opinion, Lockheed Martin Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the COSO criteria.    We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Lockheed Martin Corporation as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive
income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 of Lockheed Martin Corporation and our report dated February 9, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.  
 /s/ Ernst   Young LLP    McLean, Virginia  
 February 9, 2015      

ITEM 9B.  
  Other Information.       None.  
      93  

Table of Contents  

   PART III       

ITEM 10.  
  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.       The
information concerning directors required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is included under the caption  Proposal 1   Election of Directors  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A (the
2015 Proxy Statement), and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Information concerning executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is located under Part I, Item 4(a) of this Form 10-K. The
information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is included under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the 2015 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form
10-K. The information required by Items 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is included under the captions  Committees of the Board of Directors   Membership on Board Committees  and  Committees of the Board of
Directors   Audit Committee Report  in the 2015 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  
 We have had a written code of ethics in place since our formation in 1995.  Setting the Standard , our Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct, applies to all our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller, and to members of our Board of Directors. A copy of our Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct is available on our investor relations website: www.lockheedmartin.com/investor. Printed copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct may be obtained, without charge, by contacting Investor Relations, Lockheed Martin
Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. We are required to disclose any change to, or waiver from, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for our Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers. We use our website to
disseminate this disclosure as permitted by applicable SEC rules.      

ITEM 11.  
  Executive Compensation.       The information required by Item 402 of
Regulation S-K is included in the text and tables under the captions  Executive Compensation  and  Director Compensation  in the 2015 Proxy Statement and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The
information required by Items 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K is included under the captions  Executive Compensation   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Executive Compensation
  Compensation Committee Report  in the 2015 Proxy Statement, and that information is furnished by incorporation by reference in this Form 10-K.  
      94  

Table of Contents  

ITEM 12.  
  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.     
 The information required by this Item 12 is included under the heading  Security Ownership of Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners  in the 2015 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.     Equity
Compensation Plan Information     The following table provides information about our equity compensation plans that
authorize the issuance of shares of Lockheed Martin common stock to employees and directors. The information is provided as of December 31, 2014.      

(1)  
     Column (a) includes, as of December 31, 2014: 3,636,332 shares that have been granted
as Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), 1,042,460 shares that could be earned pursuant to grants of Performance Stock Units (PSUs) (assuming the maximum number of PSUs are earned and payable at the end of the three-year performance period) and 6,273,012
shares granted as options under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (2011 IPA Plan) or predecessor plans prior to January 1, 2013 and 37,840 shares granted as options and 149,210 stock units payable in stock or
cash under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2009 Directors Equity Plan (Directors Equity Plan) or predecessor plans for members (or former members) of the Board of Directors. Column (c) includes, as of December 31, 2014, 7,314,611 shares
available for future issuance under the 2011 IPA Plan as options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock awards (RSAs), RSUs or PSUs and 467,820 shares available for future issuance under the Directors Equity Plan as stock options and
stock units. Of the 7,314,611 shares available for grant under the 2011 IPA Plan on December 31, 2014, 590,505 and 307,094 shares are issuable pursuant to grants made on January 29, 2015, of RSUs and PSUs (assuming the maximum number
of PSUs are earned and payable at the end of the three-year performance period), respectively. The weighted average price does not take into account shares issued pursuant to RSUs or PSUs.     

(2)   
   The shares represent annual incentive bonuses and Long-Term Incentive Performance (LTIP) payments earned and voluntarily deferred by employees. The
deferred amounts are payable under the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan (DMICP). Deferred amounts are credited as phantom stock units at the closing price of our stock on the date the deferral is effective. Amounts equal to our
dividend are credited as stock units at the time we pay a dividend. Following termination of employment, a number of shares of stock equal to the number of stock units credited to the employee s DMICP account are distributed to the employee.
There is no discount or value transfer on the stock distributed. Distributions may be made from newly issued shares or shares purchased on the open market. Historically, all distributions have come from shares held in a separate trust and,
therefore, do not further dilute our common shares outstanding. As a result, these shares also were not considered in calculating the total weighted average exercise price in the table. Because the DMICP shares are outstanding, they should be
included in the denominator (and not the numerator) of a dilution calculation.         

ITEM 13.  
  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.     
 The information required by this Item 13 is included under the captions  Corporate Governance   Related Person
Transaction Policy,   Corporate Governance   Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions of Directors, Executive Officers, and 5 Percent Stockholders,  and  Corporate Governance   Director Independence 
in the 2015 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.      

ITEM 14.  
  Principal Accountant Fees and Services.       The information required by
this Item 14 is included under the caption  Proposal 2   Ratification of Appointment of Independent Auditors  in the 2015 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.  
      95  

Table of Contents  

   PART IV       

ITEM 15.  
  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.        List of financial statements filed as
part of this Form 10-K     The following financial statements of Lockheed Martin Corporation and consolidated
subsidiaries are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K at the page numbers referenced below:      
   The report of Lockheed Martin Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm
with respect to the above-referenced financial statements and their report on internal control over financial reporting appear on pages 58 and 93 of this Form 10-K. Their consent appears as Exhibit 23 of this Form 10-K.  
  List of financial statement schedules filed as part of this Form 10-K   
 All schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, not required or the information has been otherwise supplied
in the financial statements or notes to the financial statements.     Exhibits   

96  

Table of Contents  

See also Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.   

No instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt that is not registered are filed because the total amount of securities authorized under any
such instrument does not exceed 10% of the total assets of Lockheed Martin Corporation on a consolidated basis. Lockheed Martin Corporation agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request.   

10.1  
      
   Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2014, among Lockheed Martin Corporation, the lenders listed therein, and Bank of America, N.A., as
administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 15, 2014).   

10.2  
      
   Joint Venture Master Agreement, dated as of May 2, 2005, by and among Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company and United Launch Alliance, L.L.C.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 (File No.  001-11437)).    

10.3  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Deferred Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.4  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.5  
      
   Martin Marietta Corporation Directors  Life Insurance Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 033-57645) filed with the SEC on February 9, 1995).   

10.6  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Equity Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 2, 2006 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.7  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation 2009 Directors Equity Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix E to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Definitive Proxy Statement
on schedule 14A filed with the SEC on March 14, 2008).   

10.8  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012).   

10.9  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012).   

10.10  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan (Performance Based), as amended.   

10.11  
      
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.12  
      
   Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.13  
      
   Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39
to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.14  
      
   Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32
to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.15  
      
   Forms of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreements (2010-2012 performance period), Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements and Forms of Restricted Stock
Unit Award Agreements under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009
(File No. 001-11437)).    
      97  

Table of Contents  

10.16 
  
   Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of
Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 3, 2011).   

10.17 
  
   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
99.2 of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 3, 2011).   

10.18 
  
   LTIP award agreement forms as approved on February 24, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 25, 2011).   

10.19 
  
   Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2009 (File No. 001-11437)).   

10.20 
  
   Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2014).   

10.21 
  
   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, Form of Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement (2013-2015 performance period), and Form of Long-Term Incentive
Performance Award Agreement (2013-2015 performance period) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 28, 2013).   

10.22 
  
   Forms of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreements (2012-2014 performance period), Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements and Forms of Restricted Stock
Unit Award Agreements under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2011).   

10.23 
  
   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, Form of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreement (2014-2016 performance period), and Form of Performance
Stock Unit Award Agreement (2014-2016 performance period) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 28, 2014).   

10.24 
  
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Nonqualified Capital Accumulation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012), and as further amended by 2014 Amendment No. 1 to the Lockheed Martin Corporation Nonqualified Capital Accumulation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2014).   

10.25 
  
   Lockheed Martin Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2014).   

10.26 
  
   Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan for Certain Transferred Employees of Lockheed Martin Corporation, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2014).   

10.27 
  
   Lockheed Martin Supplementary Pension Plan for Transferred Employees of GE Operations, as amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2014).   

10.28 
  
 Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan, prior to November 1, 2013, known as the Lockheed Martin Corporation Severance Benefit Plan for Certain Management Employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 of
the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013), as amended by Amendment dated July 18, 2014 to Lockheed Martin Corporation Executive Severance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28, 2014).  

10.29 
  
   Non-Employee Director Compensation Summary.   

10.30 
  
   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, Form of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreement (2015-2017 performance period), and Form of Performance
Stock Unit Award Agreement (2015-2017 performance period) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan.    
      98  

Table of Contents  

12 
  
   Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.   

21 
  
   Subsidiaries of Lockheed Martin Corporation.   

23 
  
   Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

24 
  
   Powers of Attorney.   

31.1 
  
   Certification of Marillyn A. Hewson pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

31.2 
  
   Certification of Bruce L. Tanner pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.   

32 
  
   Certification of Marillyn A. Hewson and Bruce L. Tanner Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.   

101.INS 
  
   XBRL Instance Document   

101.SCH 
  
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document   

101.CAL 
  
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document   

101.DEF 
  
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document   

101.LAB 
  
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document   

101.PRE 
  
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document   

* 
   Exhibits 10.3 through 10.30 constitute management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.     
      99  

Table of Contents  

     SIGNATURES   
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.      

Lockheed Martin Corporation   

(Registrant)   

Date:  February 9, 2015  

By: 
  
   /s/ Brian P. Colan   

Brian P. Colan   

Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer   
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.      

Signatures        

Titles        
  
     Date         

/s/ Marillyn A. Hewson 
     Marillyn A. Hewson  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive 
 Officer (Principal Executive Officer)  
  
 February 9, 2015  

/s/ Bruce L. Tanner 
     Bruce L. Tanner  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
 Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  
  
 February 9, 2015  

/s/ Brian P. Colan 
     Brian P. Colan  

Vice President, Controller, and Chief 
 Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting   Officer)  
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Daniel F. Akerson  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Nolan D. Archibald  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Rosalind G. Brewer  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     David B. Burritt  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     James O. Ellis, Jr.  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Thomas J. Falk  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Gwendolyn S. King  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     James M. Loy  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Douglas H. McCorkindale  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Joseph W. Ralston  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  

* 
     Anne Stevens  

Director 
  
 February 9, 2015  
   *By Maryanne R. Lavan pursuant to a Power of Attorney executed by the Directors
listed above, which has been filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      

Date:  February 9, 2015  

By: 
  
   /s/ Maryanne R. Lavan   

Maryanne R. Lavan   

Attorney-in-fact   
 
      100  

<EX-10.10>
 2
 d808572dex1010.htm
 EX-10.10

EX-10.10 

Exhibit 10.10   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION   
  2006 MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN   
  (Performance-Based)   
  Approved January 23, 2014   
  Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2014   
  ARTICLE I      PURPOSE OF
THE PLAN     This Plan is established to provide a further incentive to selected Employees to promote the success of Lockheed Martin Corporation by
providing an opportunity to receive additional compensation for performance measured against individual and business unit goals. The Plan is intended to achieve the following:      

1. 
 Link pay of executives to business and individual performance.        

2. 
 Stimulate employees to work individually and as teams to meet objectives and goals consistent with enhancing shareholder value.        

3. 
 Facilitate the Company s ability to retain qualified employees and to attract top executive talent.        

4. 
 Establish performance goals within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.    
  ARTICLE II      STANDARD OF
CONDUCT AND PERFORMANCE EXPECTATION       

1. 
 It is expected that employees will work towards accomplishing the enterprise, business area and individual goals established under this Plan in accordance with the Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. It
is a prerequisite to any award that a Participant has acted in accordance with the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and has fostered an atmosphere to encourage all employees acting under the Participant s supervision to perform their duties
in accordance with the highest ethical standards. Thus, in evaluating performance against commitments, a Participant s adherence to the Company s ethical standards will be considered paramount in determining awards under this Plan.

2. 
 Plan Participants whose individual performance is determined to be unacceptable are not eligible to receive Incentive Compensation awards.    
      1  

ARTICLE III   
  DEFINITIONS       

1. 
 ANNUAL SALARY   The annual base salary of a Participant on December 1 of the year preceding the year of payment, but excluding any Incentive Compensation, commissions, over-time payments, retention payments,
equity compensation, indirect payments, retroactive payments not affecting the base salary or applicable to the current year, and any other payments of compensation of any kind.    

2. 
 APPLICABLE PERFORMANCE FACTOR   For any Participant, the result obtained by multiplying the Participant s Individual Performance Factor, applicable Business Area Performance Factor and the Enterprise
Performance Factor.        

3. 
 BOARD OF DIRECTORS   The Board of Directors of the Company.        

4. 
 BUSINESS AREA PERFORMANCE FACTOR   (a) In the case of a Business Area (with Lockheed Martin International being treated as a Business Area), the performance factor determined for a particular Business Area;
and (b) in the case of Enterprise Operations, the average of all Business Area Performance Factors subject to adjustment as provided under Section C of Exhibit A.    

5. 
 BUSINESS UNIT PERFORMANCE FACTOR   The performance factor assigned to a business unit other than a Business Area or the Company overall.    

6. 
 CODE   The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.        

7. 
 COMMITTEE   The Management Development   Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors as from time to time appointed or constituted by the Board of Directors.    

8. 
 COMPANY or CORPORATION   Lockheed Martin Corporation and those subsidiaries of which it owns directly or indirectly 50% or more of the voting stock or other equity.    

9. 
 CORPORATE SALARY BOARD   as defined in CPS-504, the corporate Senior Vice President Human Resources and Communications and the Chief Executive Officer.    

10. 
 DISABILITY   Termination of employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan in which the Participant is enrolled (or,
if not a participant in a Company-sponsored long-term disability plan, under circumstances which would result in the Participant becoming eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in the Company s plan).    

11. 
 ELECTED OFFICER   An Employee who has been elected as an officer by the Board of Directors.        

12. 
 ENTERPRISE PERFORMANCE FACTOR   The performance factor assigned with respect to the Company s overall performance as set forth in Section C of Exhibit A.    

13. 
   EMPLOYEE   Any person who is employed by the Company and who is paid a salary as distinguished from an hourly wage. The term  Employee 
includes only those individuals that     
      2  

the Company classifies on its payroll records as Employees and does not include consultants, independent contractors, leased employees, co-op students, interns, temporary or casual employees,
individuals paid by a third party or other individuals not classified as an Employee by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term  Employee  shall not include any employee who, during any part of such year, was represented by a
collective bargaining agent.        

14. 
 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION   A payment made pursuant to this Plan.        

15. 
 INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS   The performance factor assigned to a Participant as set forth in Section B of Exhibit A or Section A of Exhibit C, as applicable.    

16. 
 ORGANIZATIONAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS   The Business Area Performance Factor and the Enterprise Performance Factor as set forth in Section C of Exhibit A.    

17. 
 PARTICIPANT   Any Employee selected to participate in the Plan in accordance with its terms.        

18. 
 PLAN   This Lockheed Martin Corporation 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan (Performance-Based), as amended from time to time.    

19. 
 PLAN YEAR   A calendar year.        

20. 
 REQUIRED APPROVER   (a) the Committee in the case of the Chief Executive Officer; (ii) the Corporate Salary Board in the case of a vice president (whether appointed or elected); (iii) the relevant
business area Executive Vice President in the case of a director level or lower level Employee working in a business area; or (iv) the Elected Officer serving as the head of a corporate function in the case of all director level or lower level
Employees assigned to that corporate function.        

21. 
 RESTRICTED EMPLOYEE   An Employee who is an Elected Officer.        

22. 
 RETIREMENT   Retirement under the terms of a Company-sponsored pension plan or for Employees who do not participate in a pension plan, termination from employment with the Company following the attainment of age 55
and five years of service or attainment of age 65.        

23. 
 SUBCOMMITTEE   A subcommittee of the Committee, composed solely of two or more outside directors of the Company (within the meaning of Section 162(m) (4) (C)) or the entire Committee if all members of the
Committee are outside directors.        

24. 
 TARGET LEVEL   The target levels assigned to a Participant in accordance with Article V.    
  ARTICLE IV      ELIGIBILITY
FOR PARTICIPATION     Participants are selected each Plan Year based on recommendations by the Required Approver, subject to the approval of the Chief
Executive Officer. Those eligible shall include only those Employees considered by the Committee to be key Employees of the Company. No member of the Committee shall be eligible for participation in the Plan.  
      3  

ARTICLE V   
  INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PAYMENTS       

1. 
 CALCULATION OF PAYMENTS   Incentive Compensation payments to Participants shall be calculated in accordance with the formula and procedures set forth in Exhibits A, B and C hereto. All such payments shall be in
cash.        

2. 
 TARGETS   Target Levels will be assigned to Participants based upon target levels for comparable positions at companies in the comparator group (for Elected Officers) or other industry surveys used by the Company
to determine executive compensation (for participants other than Elected Officers). Target Levels will generally be set by reference to the 50 th  percentile of the market. At the beginning of each
Plan Year or in connection with an internal promotion or an employment offer made later in a Plan Year, the Required Approver, subject to review by the Chief Executive Officer, shall identify the Employees eligible to participate in the Plan for
that Plan Year and designate a Target Level for each Employee so designated. Target Levels for appointed Vice Presidents and other Elected Officers (other than the Chief Executive Officer) must be approved by the Corporate Salary Board, subject to
approval by the Committee in the case of an Elected Officer. The Committee shall review and recommend the Target Level for the Chief Executive Officer, subject to approval by the Board of Directors.    

3. 
 INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS   Each Employee designated as eligible for participation for a particular Plan Year shall identify key commitments that will serve as individual performance goals for that Plan Year
on or before March 30 of that Plan Year (or within 30 days of designation as a Participant by the Required Approver or assumption of a new position with eligibility for participation in the Plan, whichever is later). As soon as practicable
following the end of the Plan Year, the performance of each Participant will be evaluated in the respective Business Area or corporate functional area against the Participant s commitments and assigned an Individual Performance Factor as
provided for in Exhibit A or Exhibit C, as applicable, subject to approval by the Chief Executive Officer. The Individual Performance Factors for Elected Officers, other than the Chief Executive Officer, shall be assigned initially by the Chief
Executive Officer, as provided in Exhibit A, subject to approval by the Committee. The Individual Performance Factor for the Chief Executive Officer of Lockheed Martin Corporation shall be recommended by the Committee and approved by the Board of
Directors. The Committee may, at the request of any member of the Committee, review the Individual Performance Factors of any other Participant or groups of Participants. The Committee may make adjustments to any such performance factors as it
considers appropriate.        

4. 
 ORGANIZATIONAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS   The Chief Executive Officer (for the Company overall) and each Business Area Executive Vice President (for each Business Area and business unit for which a Business Unit Factor
is required) shall identify key commitments for the Company overall or the Business Area (or business unit), as the case may be for that Plan Year on or before March 30 of that Plan Year. The commitments may be commitments to financial,
strategic or operational goals. The Chief Executive Officer shall review the Enterprise and Business Area commitments with the Committee. At the end of the Plan Year, the Chief Executive Officer shall evaluate the performance of the Company for
purposes of determining the Enterprise Performance Factor and each Business Area for purposes of determining the applicable Business Area Performance Factor in light of their respective organizational commitments and determine the Enterprise
Performance Factor, the Business Area Performance Factors, and the Business Unit Performance Factors, as provided for in Exhibits A and C, as applicable, subject to the approval of the Committee.    
      4  

5. 
 APPROPRIATIONS TO THE PLAN.        

A. 
 The Committee will recommend to the Board of Directors the amount to be appropriated to the Plan by the Company for distribution to Participants and as computed pursuant to the provisions of this Paragraph 5. To the
extent that the aggregate of all proposed payments of Incentive Compensation to all Participants as determined by the application of the formula set forth in Exhibit A or Exhibit C, as applicable (subject to any adjustments made by the Committee
under Paragraph 3 or 4 above or pursuant to Exhibit B) for a particular Plan Year exceeds the amount determined by the Committee to be available for payment, all proposed payments of Incentive Compensation to Participants shall be reduced on a
pro-rata basis.        

B. 
 The Board of Directors will review the recommendations of the Committee as to the amount to appropriate to the Plan for a particular Plan Year. The Board of Directors may, notwithstanding any provision of the Plan, make
adjustments to any proposed Incentive Compensation payment under the Plan, and subject to any such adjustments, the Board of Directors will appropriate to the Plan the amount as recommended by the Committee for distribution to the Participants;
provided that, the Board of Directors may appropriate an amount which is less than the amount recommended by the Committee to be appropriated to all payments of Incentive Compensation, in which event all proposed payments of Incentive Compensation
to Participants shall be reduced on a pro-rata basis. Prior to the determination of the amount to be appropriated under the Plan for any Plan Year, the Board of Directors may authorize the Corporation to earmark funds or allocate funds to a separate
account or trust, in either case for the purpose of making payments under the Plan.        

C. 
 Before the end of each Plan Year, the Board of Directors may set a minimum aggregate bonus amount that must be used to pay Awards under this Plan attributable to service during the Plan Year to any combination of
Participants who are not Elected Officers of the Company.        

6. 
 METHOD OF PAYMENT   The amount determined for each Participant with respect to each Plan Year shall be paid to such Participant in cash not later than March 15 following the Plan Year or deferred at the
direction of the Committee, but only to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A, until the Participant s termination of employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participants may also elect to defer payments to the extent provided in
the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan.        

7. 
 RIGHTS OF PARTICIPANTS   All payments are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. No Participant shall have any right to require the Board of Directors to make any appropriation to the Plan for any
Plan Year, nor shall any Participant have any vested interest or property right in any share in any amounts which may be appropriated to the Plan.        

8. 
 AUTHORITY TO RECOVER PAYMENTS. The Board of Directors retains the authority to make retroactive adjustments to a payment made under the Plan on or after January 1, 2008 under the following circumstances and such
other circumstances as may be specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Company to recapture or claw back amounts paid pursuant to the Plan:    
      5  

i. 
 If the Board of Directors determines, after consideration of all the facts and circumstances that the Board of Directors in its sole discretion considers relevant, that either (i) the intentional misconduct or
gross negligence of a Restricted Employee, or (ii) the failure of a Restricted Employee to report another person s intentional misconduct or gross negligence of which the Restricted Employee had knowledge, contributed to the Corporation
having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, then the Board of Directors may require the Restricted Employee repay to the Corporation the value of any payment under this Plan as
determined by the Board of Directors.        

ii. 
 If the Board of Directors, after consideration of all the facts and circumstances that the Board of Directors in its sole discretion considers relevant, determines that a Restricted Employee either (i) engaged in
fraud, bribery or other illegal act, or (ii) the Restricted Employee s intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure by the Restricted Employee to report the acts of another person of which the Restricted Employee had
knowledge) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in either case adversely impacted the Corporation s financial position or reputation, the Board of Directors may require the Restricted Employee to repay
to the Corporation the value of any payment under this Plan as determined by the Board of Directors.      The Board of Directors
may delegate its authority to make determinations under this Section 8 to the Committee.     ARTICLE VI   
  ADMINISTRATION     The Plan shall be
administered under the direction of the Committee. The Committee shall have the right to construe the Plan, to interpret any provision thereof, to make rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to determine any factual question arising in
connection with the Plan s operation after such investigation or hearing as the Committee may deem appropriate. Any decision made by the Committee under the provisions of this Article shall be conclusive and binding on all parties concerned.
The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Company the authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the
effective administration of this Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose. The rights and obligations of the Committee under this Article VI shall be assumed by the Subcommittee in the case of Participants subject to Exhibit B.  
      6  

ARTICLE VII   
  AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN     The
Board of Directors shall have the right to terminate or amend this Plan at any time and to discontinue further appropriations thereto, provided that such termination or amendment shall not be made in a manner that would cause a Participant to
include Incentive Compensation in gross income pursuant to Code Section 409A.     ARTICLE VIII   
  EFFECTIVE DATE     The Plan shall first be
effective with respect to the operations of the Company for the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2006, contingent upon approval of Exhibit B by the Company s stockholders at its 2006 annual meeting. The Plan was amended by the Management
Development and Compensation Committee on January 23, 2014, effective January 1, 2014. The Plan has been further amended by the Company as of the date indicated below, effective January 1, 2014.  

LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION:   

/s/ John T. Lucas   
 
 By:  John T. Lucas  
 
 Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Communications  

Date: 12/3/14 

7  

EXHIBIT A  
 CALCULATION OF MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PAYMENTS      

A. 
  AWARD FORMULA         

1. 
 (a) Incentive Compensation payments will be calculated by multiplying the Participant s Annual Salary by the applicable Target Level of the Participant (determined in accordance with Article V above), and that
result will then be multiplied by the Applicable Performance Factor which is composed of the Individual Performance Factor (as defined in Section B), the Enterprise Performance Factor (as defined in Section C) and the Business Area Performance
Factor (as defined in Section C).      Payments to Participants subject to Exhibit B shall be reduced to the extent required by
Exhibit B.    (b)  Special Award Formula For Designated Business Units:  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Salary Board may designate a
business unit for which Incentive Compensation will be determined solely on the basis of an Individual Performance Factor and a Business Unit Performance Factor so long as no Elected Officer is an employee of that business unit. Incentive
Compensation payments for Participants who are Employees of a designated business unit will be calculated using the performance factors set forth in Exhibit C, and not in Sections B and C of this Exhibit A.  
 (c) The maximum amount that may be authorized for any Participant under this Plan is 200% of a Participant s Target Level and payments
will be reduced on a Participant-by-Participant basis if necessary so that no Participant receives (or is authorized) more than 200% of a Participant s Target Level.      

2. 
 Pro-rated awards for Participants who terminate employment during a Plan Year may be recommended for consideration based on the following:    

Termination Method  
    
   Incentive Compensation Award   

Voluntary  
    
 May be considered for a  pro-rated  award if on active status December 1 of the Plan Year with a minimum of six (6) full months as an active Plan Participant during the Plan
Year.  

Lay Off  
    
 May be  pro-rated  based on the conditions of the case at the discretion of the Required Approver if the Participant has a minimum of six (6) full months as an active Plan Participant
during the Plan Year.  

Retirement/Disability/Death  
    
 May be considered for a  pro-rated  award in the event the Participant has (i) a minimum of six (6) full months as an active Participant during the Plan Year; and (ii) the
Participant terminates employment with the Company on account of Retirement, Disability, or death.  
 
      i  

3. 
  Pro-rated  awards may be recommended for        

i. 
 Employees who become Participants subsequent to the beginning of a Plan Year, and have a minimum of six (6) full months as active Participants during the Plan Year;    

ii. 
 Employees who are on unpaid leave of absence for more than three (3) months and have a minimum of six (6) full months as an active Participant during the Plan Year; or    

iii. 
 Employees who are scheduled to work less than full time (less than forty (40) hours per week) and have a minimum of six (6) full-time equivalent months as an active Participant during the Plan Year.

4. 
 Recommended awards for Participants whose Target Levels change during the Plan Year        

i. 
 may be  pro-rated  (based on number of months at old versus new Target Level), subject to the Required Approver    

ii. 
 may be effective for the entire year based on the new Target Level if the new Target Level is approved prior to March 30 of the Plan Year; or    

iii. 
 may be effective for the entire year based on the new Target Level if full-Plan Year application is approved by the Committee.        

5. 
 Any calculation of Incentive Compensation under this Exhibit A (and, if applicable, Exhibit C) shall be subject to the provisions of the Plan and Exhibit B. Deviations from this Exhibit A (and, if applicable, Exhibit C)
are subject to approval by the Required Approver and the Corporate Salary Board. In the event of any conflict between the terms or application of this Exhibit A (and, if applicable, Exhibit C) and the Plan, the Plan shall prevail. In the event of
any conflict between the terms of Exhibit A and Exhibit B, Exhibit B shall prevail.        

B. 
  INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS       Individual performance factors are normally in
increments of 0.05 for ratings above 0.50 and will have the following definitions beginning with the 2013 Plan Year:      

Factor   
    
    Performance Definition    

1.15   1.25 
    
 Significantly exceeded all or majority of commitments and met or exceeded all behavioral expectations  
 
 1.00   1.15 
    
 Exceeded all or majority of commitments and met or exceeded all behavioral expectations  
 
 0.75   1.00 
    
 Achieved all or majority of commitments and met all or majority of behavioral expectations  
 
 0.50   0.75, 0.00 
    
 Did not achieve majority of commitments and/or did not meet majority of behavioral expectations  
 
      ii  

C. 
  ORGANIZATIONAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS       The Organizational Performance Factors will depend
on the assessment of the performance of the Company overall and each Business Area in accomplishing the strategic, operational or financial commitments identified at the beginning of the Plan Year. Assessments of and weightings among organizational
performance commitments will be determined by the Committee.    Intermediate organizational ratings, as recommended by the Chief Executive
Officer and approved by the Committee for results achieved, may be assigned normally in increments of 0.05 for ratings above 0.50.      

(a) 
 Enterprise Performance Factor        

Factor   
    
    Performance Definition    

1.20   1.30  
    
 Results significantly exceeded all requirements and expectations  
 
   1.05   1.15  
    
 Results exceeded some requirements and expectations  
 
   1.00  
    
 Results achieved requirements and expectations  
 
   0.50   0.95  
    
 Results partially achieved some requirements and expectations  
 
   0.00  
    
 Results did not achieve requirements and expectations  

(b) 
 Business Area Performance Factor:        

Factor   
    
    Performance Definition    

1.20   1.25  
    
 Results significantly exceeded all requirements and expectations  
 
   1.05   1.15  
    
 Results exceeded some requirements and expectations  
 
   1.00  
    
 Results achieved requirements and expectations  
 
   0.50   0.95  
    
 Results partially achieved some requirements and expectations  
 
   0.00  
    
 Results did not achieve requirements and expectations  
   The Business Area Performance Factor for employees of Enterprise Operations shall be the average of the
Business Area Performance Factors determined for the Business Areas. The Compensation Committee may recommend an increase or decrease of 0.05 for an activity which is the responsibility of Enterprise Operations that the Committee determines has an
enterprise-wide impact.  
      iii  

EXHIBIT B  
 PERFORMANCE BASED AWARDS      

A. 
  INCENTIVE COMPENSATION FOR ELECTED OFFICERS.       Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan
to the contrary, Incentive Compensation awards made to Elected Officers shall be subject to the terms of this Exhibit B. The terms of Exhibit B were approved by the stockholders of Lockheed Martin Corporation at its 2006 Annual Meeting.  

B. 
  IDENTIFICATION OF THE ELECTED OFFICERS.       The eligible class of Participants subject to
Exhibit B is those Participants who are Elected Officers on the last day of the Plan Year.      

C. 
  LIMITATION OF INCENTIVE COMPENSATION.       Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan
to the contrary, the Incentive Compensation payable under the Plan to (i) the Elected Officer who is the Chief Executive Officer shall not exceed 0.3% of Cash Flow for the Plan Year; and (ii) each of the Participants who are Elected
Officers on the last day of the Plan Year, other than the Chief Executive Officer, shall not exceed 0.2% of Cash Flow for the Plan Year. The Subcommittee shall have discretion to determine the conditions, restrictions or other limitations, in
accordance with and subject to the terms of this Plan and Code Section 162(m), on the payment of Incentive Compensation to the Elected Officers. The Subcommittee may reserve the right to reduce the amount payable under this paragraph C in
accordance with any standards contained in this Plan (including Exhibit A) or on any other basis (including the Subcommittee s discretion). Neither the Subcommittee or the Committee, nor the Board of Directors shall have the authority under
this Plan to increase the amount payable under this paragraph C.      

D. 
  SUBCOMMITTEE CERTIFICATION.       Before authorizing any Incentive Compensation payment under
this Plan to a Participant who is an Elected Officer, the Subcommittee must certify in writing (by resolution or otherwise) that the payments are consistent with paragraph C of this Exhibit B and that any other material terms under this Plan for
payment of a bonus were satisfied.      

E. 
  DEFINITIONS.       For purposes of this Exhibit B,  
 (i)  Cash Flow  means net cash flow from operations as determined by the Subcommittee at the end of the Plan Year in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Subcommittee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial
statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Subcommittee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by
operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows. The Subcommittee shall have the right to specify any other adjustment that should be applied in determining Cash Flow that it deems necessary or appropriate to
take into account any event recognized under any  
      i  

accounting policy or practice affecting the Corporation, provided the Subcommittee specifies the adjustment at or prior to the time the organizational performance goals for the Corporation are
reviewed with the Subcommittee, but in no event later than March 30 of the Plan Year;    (ii)  Subcommittee  means a
subcommittee of the Committee, composed solely of two or more outside directors of the Company (within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) (4) (C)) or the entire Committee if all members of the Committee are outside directors.  

F. 
  ADMINISTRATION.       The provisions of Exhibit B shall be interpreted and administered by
the Subcommittee in a manner consistent with the requirements for  performance-based compensation  under Code Section 162(m).  
      ii  

EXHIBIT C  
 PERFORMANCE FACTORS FOR DESIGNATED BUSINESS UNITS  
 Incentive Compensation payments for Participants who are Employees of Sandia Corporation or similar designated business unit will be determined on the basis
of an Individual Performance Factor and a Business Unit Performance Factor as set forth in this Exhibit C.      

A. 
 INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE FACTORS      Individual performance factors are normally in increments of
0.05 for ratings above 0.50 and will have the following definitions beginning with the 2014 Plan Year:      

Factor   
    
    Performance Definition    

1.20   1.30  
    
 Performance significantly exceeded expectations, objectives and the contributions of his/her peers.  
 
   1.00   1.20  
    
 Performance exceeded expectations, objectives and the contributions of his/her peers  
 
   0.75   1.00  
    
 Performance met (and/or sometimes exceeded) expectations and objectives, and the impact of his/her achievements was comparable to that of peers.  
 
   0.00 
 or 
 0.50   0.75  
    
 Performance met, or partially met, expectations and objectives, but the impact of his/her achievements resulted in a contribution less than that of most peers.  

B. 
 BUSINESS UNIT PERFORMANCE FACTOR      The Business Unit Performance Factor will depend on the
assessment of the performance of the business unit in accomplishing its annual business objectives. Assessment of business unit performance will be determined by the Committee.  
 Intermediate business unit performance ratings, as recommended by the Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Committee for results
achieved, may be assigned normally in increments of 0.05 for ratings above 0.50.      

Factor   
    
    Performance Definition    

1.25   1.50  
    
 Results significantly exceeded all objectives and expectations  
 
   1.05   1.20  
    
 Results exceeded most objectives and expectations  
 
   1.00  
    
 Results achieved objectives and expectations  
 
   0.50   0.95  
    
 Results partially achieved objectives and expectations  
 
   0.00  
    
 Results did not achieve any objectives and expectations  
 
      i  

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.29>
 3
 d808572dex1029.htm
 EX-10.29

EX-10.29 

Exhibit 10.29   
  Annual Directors  Compensation Summary (Non-Employee Directors)       

Annual Cash Retainer  
  
 $130,000  
 
   Annual Equity Retainer  
  
 $130,000 payable under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2009 Directors Equity Plan  
 
   Audit Committee Chairman Fees  
  
 $25,000  
 
   Management Development and 
 Compensation Committee Chairman 
 Fees  
  
 $20,000  
 
   Other Committee Chairman Fees  
  
 $15,000  
 
   Lead Director Fees  
  
 $25,000  
 
   Deferred Compensation Plan  
  
 Deferral plan for cash retainer  
 
   Stock Ownership Guidelines  
  
 Ownership in common stock or stock units with a value equivalent to five times the annual cash retainer within five years of joining the Board  
 
   Travel Accident Insurance  
  
 $1,000,000  
 
   Director Education  
  
 Reimbursed for costs and expenses  

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 4
 d808572dex1030.htm
 EX-10.30

EX-10.30 

Exhibit 10.30       Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 1   
   Award Date: January 29, 2015        

THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING    
   SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933       Dear Awardee:   
  On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee ( Committee ) of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to
tell you that the Committee has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed
Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to
stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan ( Plan ), as amended, and any rules
and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the
terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions, including tax information, are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan and this Award
Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The number of RSUs awarded to you and the Prospectus are available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.   
    Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the
electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2015. If you  do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2015, this Award will be forfeited.    
  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described above, this Award will be effective as
of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 15,
and Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ), as amended from time to time.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 2

1.   
   CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD      
  The consideration for the RSUs is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below.
If you do not continue to perform services for the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.   

2.   
   RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER         During the Restricted Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not
have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise
dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive any dividends paid to stockholders or dividend equivalents on the RSUs.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or the name of your designated Beneficiary in the event of your death) and an amount equal to the cash dividends that would
have been paid to you had you owned such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Deferred Dividend Equivalents  or  DDEs ). Your shares and the cash payment for the DDEs will be
delivered to you as soon as practicable, but not later than sixty (60) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws.      You are responsible for payment of all Taxes imposed on you as a result of the Award. The Corporation will comply with all applicable U.S. Tax withholding requirements applicable to the RSUs, the DDEs,
and associated Stock. Please see the prospectus for the Plan for a discussion of certain material U.S. Tax consequences of the Award. Any withholding Tax on shares of Stock (and associated DDEs) deliverable to you may be satisfied by means of the
Corporation s reducing the number of shares of Stock (and associated DDEs) deliverable to you in respect of a vested Award, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law.   
  If any Tax withholding is required with respect to any Award (including with respect to associated DDEs) during the Restricted Period,
the Corporation generally shall accelerate vesting on a number of shares of Stock and/or DDEs with a value equal to the Tax withholding obligation and the vested shares of Stock and/or vested DDEs will be used to satisfy the Tax withholding
obligation. Your Award will be reduced by the number of shares of Stock and/or DDEs that are accelerated pursuant to the prior sentence.      The Corporation shall also have the right to (i) offset any other obligation of the Corporation to you (including, but not limited to withholding from your salary) by an amount sufficient to satisfy
the Tax withholding obligation, or (ii) require you (or your Beneficiary) to pay the Corporation an amount equal to the Tax withholding obligation.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 3
         
   If you are a taxpayer in a country other than the U.S., you agree to make appropriate
arrangements with the Corporation or its subsidiaries for the satisfaction of all income and employment tax withholding requirements, as well as social insurance contributions applicable to the RSUs, the DDEs, and associated Stock. Please see the
tax summary for your country at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . If you are a taxpayer in a country other than the U.S., you represent that you will consult with your own tax advisors in connection with this Award and that you are not relying on
the Corporation for any tax advice.      If a payment under this Award constitutes nonqualified deferred compensation under
Section 409A of the Code, no payment due upon termination of employment shall be made unless the termination of employment is a  separation from service  as defined in Section 409A of the Code and accompanying regulations. In the
event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the DDEs may be delayed for six months from such date. Similarly, if you are
an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ), delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted Period for any reason may be delayed for six months.
For example, if the delivery of the Stock would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, delivery will be delayed until the earliest date upon which the delivery either would not result in a
nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.   
  After the Stock is delivered to you, you will enjoy all of the rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including
the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the
Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.      You have the right to designate a Beneficiary to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of the DDEs in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a
Beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address below.   
  If, at your death, a completed Beneficiary designation form is not on file with the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management (or if your Beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the DDEs in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 4

3.   
   RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE         Except as otherwise provided in Section 4 below or as required to satisfy a Tax withholding obligation as provided in Section 2 above, the vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement
along with the DDEs is subject to the following:      (a)  Restricted Period . All of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of
your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the DDEs will cease without further obligation on the part of the Corporation unless (i) you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by
May 31, 2015, and (ii) you continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, which will occur on January 29, 2018, subject only to the
specific exceptions provided below.      (b)  RSU Performance Goal . If you are an Elected Officer of the Corporation as of
the Award Date, you will forfeit a number of whole RSUs to the extent that your  RSU Award Value  exceeds your  RSU Performance Goal  as follows:       

(i)  
  At its first meeting after the Corporation finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2015, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs
awarded to an Elected Officer under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($        ) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare the RSU Award Value
to the product of the Designated Percentage (as defined herein) and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2015, (with the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value
exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of
Stock on the Award Date ($        ). For the Chief Executive Officer and President, the Designated Percentage shall be 0.20%. For all other elected officers, the Designated Percentage shall be 0.10%.

(ii)  
  For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference
between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2015 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during
the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2015 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow
shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being
determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash
flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.        If any applicable requirement is not satisfied, you may
forfeit all or part of your RSUs. Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the DDEs. If you are awarded more than one RSU Award within the same calendar year, such Awards
will be aggregated for the purpose of applying your RSU Performance Goal, and your Performance Shortfall will be applied pro rata to each of your Awards.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 5

4.   
   DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF, RETIREMENT         (a)  Death and Disability       Your RSUs and the DDEs will immediately vest and
no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of your total disability. Your employment will be treated as terminating because of a total disability on the date you commence
receiving a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate (or, if you are not enrolled in the Corporation s long-term disability plan, on the date on which long-term disability benefits would have
commenced under the plan under which you would have been covered, had you enrolled, using the standards set forth in that plan).        The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the DDEs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than sixty (60) days after the date of your termination of employment on
account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.      In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2015, whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted
hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the DDEs will cease without further obligation on the part of the Corporation.      (b)  Retirement or Layoff       If you retire or are laid off by the Corporation
(including through a voluntary separation program that constitutes a window program under Code section 409A) and the effective date of your retirement or layoff is after July 29, 2015, but before January 29, 2018, you will continue to vest
in your RSUs and the DDEs as if you remained employed by the Corporation until January 29, 2018. The effective date of your retirement is the first day of the month following the date you terminate services with the Corporation. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if you are an Elected Officer, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal, if any, and the amount vested will be reduced by the Performance
Shortfall, if any.      The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the related DDEs
associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than the earlier of sixty (60) days after the later of (i) January 29, 2018, or (ii) the date the Committee makes its
certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal (for taxpayers in Canada or as otherwise required by local country law, no later than December 31   st    of the year in which the award is certified).   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 6
         
   For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from
service following attainment of (i) age 55 and ten years of service (at the time of termination), or (ii) age 65.   
  If you are employed in Canada, for purposes of the Award Agreement, the date of termination of employment will be the last day of actual
and active employment. For the avoidance of doubt, except as may be required by applicable minimum standards legislation, no period of notice or payment in lieu of notice that is given or that ought to have been given under any applicable law or
contract in respect of such termination of employment that follows or is in respect of a period after your last day of actual and active employment, if any, will be considered as extending your period of employment for purposes of determining your
entitlement under this Award Agreement.       

5.   
   RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE         Except where prohibited by law, if you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 29, 2018, other than on account of death, disability, layoff, or retirement (as described above),
or Divestiture or Change in Control (as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  Cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and the related DDEs on the date of your
termination.       

6.   
   DIVESTITURE         If the
Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and the transfer of such
employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall your RSUs and the DDEs will vest immediately (or following the Committee s certification of the RSU
Performance Goal and reduction to your RSUs for any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the DDEs as soon as practicable, but no later than the later of sixty
(60) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results
in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity
interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

7.   
   CHANGE IN CONTROL DURING THE RESTRICTED PERIOD         In the event of a consummation of a Change in Control during the Restricted Period, the number of RSUs subject to this Award (without regard to any Performance Shortfall) and associated DDEs thereon will
become vested (i) on the effective date of the Change in Control if the RSUs are not assumed, continued, or equivalent restricted securities are not substituted for the RSUs by the Corporation or its successor, or (ii) if the RSUs are
assumed, continued or   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 7

substituted by the Corporation or its successor, on the effective date of your involuntary termination by the Corporation or its successor other than for Cause (as defined herein, not including
death or Total Disability) or your voluntary termination with Good Reason (as defined herein), in either case, within the 24-month period following the consummation of the Change in Control.   
  In the event the RSUs and associated DDEs vest in accordance with this Section 7 (whether immediately following the Change in
Control or following your termination), the shares of Stock or equivalent substituted securities in which you have become vested and the associated DDEs (less any Tax withholding) shall be delivered to you within 14 days of the date on which you
become vested.      (a)  Cause  shall mean either of the following:   

(i)  
  Conviction for an act of fraud, embezzlement, theft or other act constituting a felony (other than traffic-related offenses or as a result of vicarious liability); or

(ii)  
  Willful misconduct that is materially injurious to the Corporation s financial position, operating results or reputation; provided, however that no act or failure
to act shall be considered  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by you (a) in bad faith; (b) for the purpose of receiving an actual improper personal benefit in the form of money, property or services; or (c) in
circumstances where you had reasonable cause to believe that the act, omission, or failure to act was unlawful.     
  (b)  Good Reason  shall mean, without your express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following after the
Change in Control:       

(i)  
  A material and substantial reduction in the nature or status of your authority or responsibilities;     

(ii)  
  A material reduction in your annualized rate of base salary;         

(iii)  
  A material reduction in the aggregate value of your level of participation in any short or long term incentive cash compensation plan, employee benefit or retirement
plan or compensation practices, arrangements, or policies;         

(iv)  
  A material reduction in the aggregate level of participation in equity-based incentive compensation plans; or     

(v)  
  Your principal place of employment is relocated to a location that is greater than 50 miles from your principal place of employment on the date the Change in Control is
consummated.        Your continued employment following an event that would constitute a basis for
voluntary termination with Good Reason shall not constitute Good Reason if you consent   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 8

to, or waive your rights with respect to any circumstances constituting Good Reason. In addition, the occurrence of an event described in (i) through (v) shall constitute the basis for
voluntary termination for Good Reason only if you provide written notice of your intent to terminate employment within 90 days of the first occurrence of such event and the Corporation has had at least 30 days from the date on which such notice is
provided to cure such occurrence. If you do not terminate employment for Good Reason within 180 days after the first occurrence of the applicable grounds, then you will be deemed to have waived your right to terminate for Good Reason with respect to
such grounds.       

8.   
   AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS         As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee
may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written
consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of Tax under Code section 409A.   

9.   
   ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD         No
Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but
in no event later than May 31, 2015. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your
disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized
electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this
letter on or before May 31, 2015, as follows:      (a) Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com 
     (b) By Mail: Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive,
Bethesda, MD 20817      Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be
effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before
May 31, 2015, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 9

10.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS      
  Except where prohibited by law, by accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the
Post-Employment Covenants contained in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       

11.   
   STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS         Except where prohibited by law, by accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements )
attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements as amended from time to time. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 29, 2015, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 29,
2018, the Ownership Requirements as in effect at that time shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).       

12.   
   DATA PRIVACY CONSENT FOR EMPLOYEES LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES         You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Award Agreement by and among the Corporation
for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the
Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares
or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan
( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the
recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources
representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Corporation may elect to administer the settlement of any award. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and
manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein,
in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the
consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 10

13.   
   EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT      
  You acknowledge and agree as follows:      (a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Committee may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any time;      (b) the grant of the RSUs are voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any RSUs, or benefits in lieu of any RSUs even if RSUs have been
granted repeatedly in the past;      (c) all determinations with respect to such future RSUs, if any, including but not limited to
the times when RSUs shall be granted or when RSUs shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;      (d) your
participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (e) the value of the RSUs are an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside
the scope of your employment contract (if any), except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in your employment contract;   
  (f) the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating
termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits;      (g) the RSUs shall expire upon termination of your employment for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan and this Award Agreement;   
  (h) the future value of the shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and   
  (i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of the RSUs or diminution in value of the RSUs or Stock
and you irrevocably release the Corporation and your employer from any such claim that may arise.       
    You
have received the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement and any other related communications, and you consent to having received these documents in English. If you have received this Award Agreement or any other documents related to the Plan
translated into a language other than English, and if the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will control.       Quebec Residents Only : The Parties have agreed that this Award Agreement, the Plan as well as any notice, document or instrument relating to them be drawn up in English only. You
acknowledge that, upon your reasonable request, the Corporation will provide a French translation of such documents to you. Les parties aux pr sentes ont convenu que la pr sente accord, le  Plan,  ainsi que
tous autres avis, actes ou documents s y rattachant soient r dig s en anglais seulement. Vous reconnaissez que,   votre demande raisonnable,  the Corporation  fournit une traduction fran aise de ces
documents   vous.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 11

15.   
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY         By
executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form
10-K, annual proxy statement and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above. The Company may, in its sole
discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to RSUs awarded under the Plan or future RSUs that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to
receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.   

16.   
   CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK      
  If your functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, you agree and acknowledge that you will bear any and all risk associated with the
exchange or fluctuation of currency associated with the RSUs, including without limitation sale of the Shares and payment of DDEs (the  Currency Exchange Risk ). Any cash payments due to you under this Award Agreement will be converted to
your functional currency at the rate determined by the Corporation, in its discretion, on the last day of the Restricted Period. You waive and release the Corporation and its subsidiaries from any potential claims arising out of the Currency
Exchange Risk.       

17.   
   EXCHANGE CONTROL REQUIREMENTS         You agree and acknowledge that you will comply with any and all exchange control requirements applicable to the RSUs and the sale of Shares and any resulting funds including, without limitation, reporting
or repatriation requirements.       
    If you are
on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the DDEs
will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you pursuant to this
Award Agreement within six months from the Award Date.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 12
         
   Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722 (a copy of which has been made available to you). Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock.
Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.
       You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement until the date on which you become
the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.        

Sincerely,   

Patricia L. Lewis   
 
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   

Acknowledged by:  

Signature  

Date   

Print Name  

Employee ID   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 13
         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 29, 2015 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan, as amended (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete    Without the express written consent of the  Required Approver  (as defined in Section 6), during the one-year period (or two-year period for
Elected Officers) following the date of my termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as
defined in Section 6), whether as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,   

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  Section 1(a)(i) and (ii) shall not apply to residents of California.      To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct (such as the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct and state versions thereof),
Sections 1(a)(i) and (ii) and Section 1(b) relating to non-solicitation, shall apply to individuals who are employed by the Corporation in an attorney position and whose occupation during the one-year (or two-year, for Elected Officers)
period following employment with the Corporation does not include practicing law.      In lieu of Section 1(a)(i) and (ii),
as well as Section 1(b) relating to non-solicitation, the following Section 1(a)(iii) shall apply to individuals who are employed by the Corporation in an attorney position, and whose occupation during the one-year (or two-year, for
Elected Officers) period following employment with the Corporation includes practicing law.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 14

(iii)  
  Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer   I acknowledge that as counsel to the Corporation, I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the Corporation and that at
least some of these obligations will continue even after my Termination Date with the Corporation. I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully with all applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that I owe to the Corporation. To the
extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not:         

a.  
  Represent any client in the same or a substantially related matter in which I represented the Corporation where the client s interests are materially adverse to
the Corporation; or         

b.  
  Disclose confidential information relating to my representation of the Corporation, including the disclosure of information that is to the disadvantage of the
Corporation, except for information that is or becomes generally known.        The Corporation s Senior Vice
President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary or the General Tax Counsel, as applicable, will determine in his or her discretion whether an individual is employed by the Corporation in an attorney position.   
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Required Approver, during the one-year period (two-year period
for Elected Officers) following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of the
Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.      (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any
non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates,
subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others
to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally
compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which
were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 15

Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CRX-015C (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:       

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No Disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its directors, officers, employees, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably
requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or
requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the
Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary
Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 16
         
   3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.  
     (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I
agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report another person s intentional misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case
adversely affected the Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I own Stock issued in respect of
vested RSUs, such Stock; (ii) to the extent I no longer own the shares of Stock of the Corporation issued in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the greater of (x) the value of such Stock on the date the associated RSUs vested
(which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange
on such date), and (y) the proceeds received in connection with the disposition of such Stock; and (iii) to the extent I have not earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in my Award and any accrued dividend
equivalents with respect thereto.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to
protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any   

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 17

other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the
granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the
meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:   
  (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon
Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, Airbus Group, Inc. and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by,
or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar
transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an
alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the
Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the
two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation
for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time
within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had
access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination
Date.      (c)  Required Approver  means:   

(i)  
  with respect to the Chief Executive Officer and President, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Corporation s Board of Directors;

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 18

(ii)  
  with respect to any Elected Officer (other than the Chief Executive Officer and President), the Corporation s Chief Executive Officer; or     

(iii)  
  with respect to all other employees, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Corporation.     
  (d)  Elected Officer  means an officer of the Corporation who was elected to his or her position by the Corporation s
Board of Directors.      7.  Miscellaneous.        (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement (with Exhibit B) and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall
inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting
of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 29, 2015       Page
 19
         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times  

Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times  

Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times  

Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times  

Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times  

Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times  

Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times  

Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.          
 
  Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their
target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period       Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and
Performance Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership requirements are not yet satisfied.   
  Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share ownership goals.   

LTIP (Domestic and International)       Award Date: January 29, 2015          

THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING    
   SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933        

Re:  
  Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan:          Long-Term Incentive Performance Award (2015-2017 Performance Period)        Dear Awardee:
     On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of
Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted a Long-Term Incentive Performance ( LTIP ) Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan, as amended (the  Plan ). The
purpose of this letter is to serve as the LTIP Award Agreement and to set forth your Target Award as well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus
relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. Your Target Award and the Prospectus are available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in
your records.        Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award
by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2015.  If
you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2015, this Award will be forfeited.       Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described above, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes
your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 18 and Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and
Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ), as amended from time to time, except where prohibited by law.      The
Corporation will comply with all applicable U.S. Tax withholding requirements applicable to the Award.  Please see the prospectus for the Plan for a discussion of certain material U.S. Tax consequences of the Award.  If you are a taxpayer
in a country other than the U.S., you agree to make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation or its subsidiaries for the satisfaction of all income and employment tax withholding requirements, as well as social insurance contributions
applicable to the Award. Please see the tax summary for your country at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . If you are a taxpayer in a country other than the U.S., you represent that you will consult with your own tax advisors in connection
with this Award and that you are not relying on the Corporation for any tax advice.  

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 2         
   In general, the Corporation will reduce the amount paid to you under this Award
Agreement by an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable Tax withholding obligation, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law. The Corporation shall also have the right to (i) offset any other obligation of the
Corporation to you (including but not limited to withholding from your salary) by an amount sufficient to satisfy the Tax withholding obligation, or (ii) require you (or your Beneficiary) to pay the Corporation an amount equal to the Tax
withholding obligation.      Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement either shall be defined in this Award Agreement or if
not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning given to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you under this Award Agreement and the term
 Award  refers only to the LTIP Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this
Award Agreement.       

Section 1.   
    Target Award; Performance Period .         1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be the U.S. dollar amount identified as your Target Award in your account at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com .      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a
three-year performance period that runs from January 1, 2015, until December 31, 2017.      1.3  Payment of Award .
The amount payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in
accordance with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your
Award). With respect to US-Based Employees, when an Award becomes vested in accordance with Section 5.2(a), the Award amount will be paid to the Participant in US Dollars. With respect to international employees, when an Award becomes vested in
accordance with Section 5.2(a), the amount payable to the Participant in cash will be the amount of the Participant s Award converted into the Participant s functional currency at the conversion rate determined by the Corporation in
its discretion as of the date the Award becomes vested in accordance with Section 5.2(a).       

Section 2.   
    Calculation of Award Payments .         2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,      (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations
which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 3         
   (b) The Committee will calculate the ROIC Performance Factor based on the
Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period as set forth in the January 28, 2015, Committee resolution ( ROIC Target ).   
  (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the
Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow for the Performance Period as set forth in the January 28, 2015, Committee resolution ( Cash Flow Target ).   
  (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in
determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2017, to
receive your Potential Award.       

Section 3.   
    Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .            3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the Corporation s Average TSR (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) for
the Performance Period to the Average TSR for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which compose the Standard and Poor s Aerospace
and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of the Stock. With respect to the corporations that make up the Standard and Poor s Aerospace and
Defense Index, the Total Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing
the Standard and Poor s Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor .      (a)  Calculation of Average TSR . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the Total
Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six (36) periods during the Performance Period where
each period begins on January 1, 2015, (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2014) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for
trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will be
averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 4         
   
Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK
function).      (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, expressed as a
percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the Corporation s Average TSR for the
Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c) Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation. If the Percentile Ranking as determined
under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be interpolated
on a linear basis.      If the Corporation s Average TSR for the three-year Performance Period is negative, the maximum Total
Stockholder Return Performance Factor shall not exceed 100%.       

Section 4.     
    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .         4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to the ROIC Target and then identifying the ROIC
Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following table:       
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment
of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax rates)   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 5         
   
plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the average of the highest marginal federal corporate income tax rates over the three year Performance Period ( Return ), divided by
(B) the average thirteen quarter-end investment balances (beginning with the quarter-end immediately preceding the beginning of the Performance Period) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus
(ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined quarterly as included in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.      (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined
by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial
statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and
postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will
be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2015 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance
Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).      4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow
Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the Cash Flow Target, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the
change from the Cash Flow Target on the following table:       
    (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means net cash flow from
operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2015 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans
during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business units, other
than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2015 Long Range Plan.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 6         
   (b)  Cash Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based
upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash
Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.
     4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed
in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period falls short of
the ROIC Target by more than 30 basis points and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period falls short of the Cash Flow Target by more than $0.7 billion.   

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Award as determined under Section 2.1, you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the Corporation through
the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below or where prohibited by law, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Award. If you
are on Corporation-approved leave of absence at any point during the Performance Period, for purposes of this Award Agreement, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation, unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you
and the Corporation.      (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   
  (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death, Divestiture, or Total Disability or your Retirement (each as
defined in Section 5.1(c)) or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your employment involuntarily, as a result of a layoff,
including through a voluntary layoff program that constitutes a window program under Section 409A of the Code,      you shall
be eligible to receive a fraction of your Award. The numerator of such fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in
the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part
of your Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation. If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment
of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 7         
   (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award Agreement:   
  (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a  Total Disability  on the date you commence
receiving a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in the Corporation s long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under
the plan under which you would have been covered, had you enrolled, using the standards set forth in that plan;      (2) Your
employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment
with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the other party in the Divestiture. A  Divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation,
association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Corporation; and   
  (3) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of  Retirement  if your employment terminates after
(i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have (at the time of your termination) completed at least ten years of service with the Corporation. The effective date of your termination is the first day of the month following the date
you terminate services with the Corporation.      5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule :  Vesting; Method of Payment; Timing of Payment . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your
Potential Award under Section 5.1, up to $10,000,000 of your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a
Potential Award for the Performance Period. This portion of your award shall be known as the  Payable Portion  of your Potential Award. The Payable Portion of your Potential Award shall be (i) paid to you in cash as soon as
administratively practicable after the certification date described above, but not later than March 15, 2018, or (ii) deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to your deferral election under Section 5.2(c), in the
event of your death, the Payable Portion of your Potential Award will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed Beneficiary designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.
     (b)  Special Rules for Certain Employees Terminated During Performance Period . If you terminate employment during the
Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full satisfaction of all rights you have under this
Award Agreement. The portion of your Potential Award payable to   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 8         
   
you following a termination of employment during the Performance Period under circumstances described in Section 5.1(b) shall be paid to you or, in the event of your death, to your
Beneficiary for the Award, at the time specified in Section 5.2(a) (subject to section 5.2(c)). In the event of your death and you do not have a properly completed Beneficiary designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards
and Performance Management s office, your payment will be made to your estate.      (c)  Deferral . You will be given an
opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive
Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be
furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the Beneficiary designation for this LTIP Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP. This Section 5.2(c) shall not apply if you
are a taxpayer in a country other than the United States.      (d)  Payment Rules Applicable to Canadian Employees . If you
are employed in Canada, for purposes of the Award Agreement, the date of termination of employment will be the last day of actual and active employment. For the avoidance of doubt, except as may be required by applicable minimum standards
legislation, no period of notice or payment in lieu of notice that is given or that ought to have been given under any applicable law or contract in respect of such termination of employment that follows or is in respect of a period after your last
day of actual and active employment, if any, will be considered as extending your period of employment for the purposes of determining your entitlement under this Agreement.      5.3.  Cutback . Any portion of your Potential Award in excess of the Payable Portion of your Potential Award will be forfeited to the extent that such portion, together with payments attributable to
any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted during 2015 as Performance Based Awards, exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts in excess of any Plan limits also shall be forfeited.      5.4.  Means of Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is required to be delayed by reason of Section 13, such payment shall be
made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would have been paid prior to the delay, adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at
a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall Street Journal, plus 25 basis points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing
rate of the Corporation.       

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .            You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so
shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the
Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 9         

Section 7.   
    Plan .         
  This Award Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.   

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .      
  8.1.  Vesting of Award Upon Change in Control.  In the event of a consummation of a Change in Control during the Performance Period,
your Target Award will become vested (i) on the effective date of the Change in Control if the LTIP Award is not assumed or continued, or equivalent cash incentives are not substituted for your LTIP Award by the Corporation or its successor, or
(ii) if the LTIP is assumed, continued or substituted, upon your involuntary termination other than for Cause (not including death or Total Disability) or your voluntary termination with Good Reason, in either case, within the 24-month period
following the consummation of the Change in Control. The cash payment in which you have become vested shall be delivered to you within fourteen (14) days of the date on which you become vested.   
  8.2  Special Definitions.        (a)  Cause  shall mean either of the following:      1) Conviction for an act of
fraud, embezzlement, theft or other act constituting a felony (other than traffic-related offenses or as a result of vicarious liability);      2) Willful misconduct that is materially injurious to the Corporation s financial position, operating results or reputation; provided, however that no act or failure to act shall be considered
 willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by you (a) in bad faith; (b) for the purpose of receiving an actual improper personal benefit in the form of money, property or services; or (c) in circumstances where you had
reasonable cause to believe that the act, failure to act, or omission was unlawful.      (b)  Good Reason  shall mean, without
your express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following after the Change in Control:      1) A material
and substantial reduction in the nature or status of your authority or responsibilities;      2) A material reduction in your
annualized rate of base salary;      3) A material reduction in the aggregate value of your level of participation in any short or
long term incentive cash compensation plan, employee benefit or retirement plan or compensation practices, arrangements, or policies;      4) A material reduction in the aggregate level of participation in equity-based incentive compensation plans; or      5) Your principal place of employment is relocated to a location that is greater than fifty (50) miles from your principal place of employment on the date the Change in Control is consummated.

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 10         
   Your continued employment following an event that would constitute a basis for voluntary
termination with Good Reason shall not constitute Good Reason if you consent to, or waive your rights with respect to, any circumstances constituting Good Reason. In addition, the occurrence of an event described in 1) through 5) shall constitute
the basis for voluntary termination for Good Reason only if you provide written notice of your intent to terminate employment within 90 days of the first occurrence of such event and the Corporation has had at least 30 days from the date on which
such notice is provided to cure such occurrence. If you do not terminate employment for Good Reason within 180 days after the first occurrence of the applicable grounds, then you will be deemed to have waived your right to terminate for Good Reason
with respect to such grounds.      8.3.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1, if a payment in accordance with
those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a
nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.       

Section 9.   
    Amendment and Termination .            As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment due to Section 409A of the Code or Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this
Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Code and the amount payable is reduced solely
by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of valuation of a share of Stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to
amend this Award Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and of Section 409A of the Code, including amendments regarding the timing
and form of payments hereunder.       

Section 10.   
    Data Privacy Consent For Employees Located Outside Of The United States .      
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as
described in this Award Agreement by and among the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or
other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 11         
   
or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of
implementing, administering and managing the Plan ( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located
in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the
Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Corporation may elect to administer the settlement of any award. You understand that Data will be held only as
long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments
to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to
participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.   

Section 11.   
    No Assurance of Employment; No Right to an Award; Value of Award .         Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or
otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause. You acknowledge and agree as follows:   
  (a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Board of Directors may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any time;   
  (b) the grant of the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any
Awards, or benefits in lieu of any Award even if Awards have been granted repeatedly in the past;      (c) all determinations with
respect to such future Awards, if any, including but not limited to the times when Awards shall be granted or when Awards shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;   
  (d) your participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (e) the value of the Award is an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside the scope of your employment contract (if any), except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in your employment
contract;      (f) the Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited
to, calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits;   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 12         
   (g) the Award shall expire upon termination of your employment for any reason except as
may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan and this Award Agreement;      (h) the future value of the Award is unknown and
cannot be predicted with certainty; and      (i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of
the Award or diminution in value of the Award and you irrevocably release the Corporation from any such claim that may arise.       
 
  In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.   
   
    It is the intent of the Corporation that your Award not be subject to taxation under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code. Nevertheless, in the event that your Award is or could be subject to
Section 409A of the Code, as determined by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, in consultation with the General Tax Counsel or his or her delegate, the following rules apply: (i) the Award will be interpreted and administered to
meet the requirements of Sections 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) of the Code and thus to be exempt from taxation under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code; (ii) no Award payment will be made on account of your termination of employment
unless the termination of employment constitutes a  separation from service  under Code section 409A(a)(2)(a)(i); and (iii) if you are a  specified employee  within the meaning of Code section 409A, any payment in respect of
this Award made on account of a termination of employment will be delayed for six (6) months following such termination of employment, and then made at the earliest date permitted by Section 409A of the Code.   

Section 14.   
    Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .         Except where prohibited by law, by accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained in Exhibit A to this Award
Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements as amended from time to time. If you
are not a Vice President (or above) on January 29, 2015, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 29, 2018, the Ownership Requirements as in effect at that time shall become applicable to you on the date of your
promotion to Vice President (or above).       

Section 15.   
    English Language .      
  You have received the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement and any other related communications, and you consent to having
received these documents, in English. If you have received this Award Agreement or any other documents related to the Plan translated into a language other than English, and if the translated version is different from the English version, the
English version will control.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 13         
    Quebec Residents Only : The Parties have agreed that this Award Agreement, the
Plan as well as any notice, document or instrument relating to them be drawn up in English only. You acknowledge that, upon your reasonable request, the Corporation will provide a French translation of such documents to you. Les
parties aux pr sentes ont convenu que la pr sente accord, le  Plan,  ainsi que tous autres avis, actes ou documents s y rattachant soient r dig s en anglais seulement. Vous reconnaissez que,  
votre demande raisonnable,  the Corporation  fournit une traduction fran aise de ces documents   vous.       

Section 16.   
    Currency Exchange Risk .         If your functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, you agree and acknowledge that you will bear any and all risk associated with the exchange or fluctuation of currency associated with the Award (the
 Currency Exchange Risk ). You waive and release the Corporation and its subsidiaries from any potential claims arising out of the Currency Exchange Risk.       

Section 17.   
    Exchange Control Requirements .         You agree and acknowledge that you will comply with any and all exchange control requirements applicable to the Award and any resulting funds including, without limitation, reporting or repatriation
requirements.       Section 18.  Electronic Delivery; Execution .    
  By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site
( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy statement and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice
President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted below. The Corporation may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Award under the Plan or future Awards that may be awarded under the Plan by
electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established
and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by the Corporation.      No Award is enforceable until you
properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than
May 31, 2015. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the
Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the
delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before
May 31, 2015, as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 14         

    Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be
effective as of the Award Date.        

Sincerely,   

Patricia L. Lewis   
 
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   

Acknowledged by:  

Signature  

Date   

Print Name  

Employee ID   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 15         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR  
      
    3.2(a)   
 
  Award  
      
  6   th        
 
    Award Date     Cash-Based
Award     Cash Flow   
      
    Header     Plan  
    4.2(a)    
 
  Cash Flow Performance Factor  
      
    4.2   
 
    Cash Flow Target  
  Cause     Change of Control   
      
      2.1(c)      
8.2(a)     Plan    
 
    Code     Committee   

Plan     1   st         
 
  Corporation  
      
  6   th        
 
    Divestiture  
  Employee     Exchange Act  
  Good Reason     Insider   
      
      5.1(c)(2)  
  Plan     Plan  
    8.2(b)     Plan    
 
    Payable Portion     Peer
Performance Group   
      
      5.2(a)      
3.1    
 
    Performance-Based Award  
  Performance Period   
      
    Plan      
1.2    
 
  Plan  
      
  1   st        
 
  Potential Award  
      
    2.1(d)   
 
    Retirement     Return  
  ROIC   
      
      5.1(c)(3)      
4.1(a)       4.1(a)    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor     ROIC
Target   
      
      4.1      
2.1(b)    
 
  Subsidiary  
      
  Plan   
 
  Target Award  
      
  6   th     ,   1.1   
 
    Total Disability     Total
Stockholder Return   
      
      5.1(c)(1)     Plan;  
3.2(a)    
 
  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor  
      
    3.1;   3.2   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 16         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 29, 2015 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan, as amended (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:
     1.  Protective Covenants .   
  (a)  Covenant Not To Compete    Without the express written consent of the  Required Approver,  during the one-year (or two-year for
Elected Officers) period following the date of my termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company 
(as defined in Section 6), whether as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,   

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c)) of the Corporation (including but not
limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation, information
relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  Section 1(a)(i) and (ii) shall not apply to residents of California.      To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct (such as the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct and state versions thereof),
Sections 1(a)(i) and (ii) and Section 1(b) relating to non-solicitation, shall apply to individuals who are employed by the Corporation in an attorney position and whose occupation during the one-year (or two-year, for Elected Officers)
period following employment with the Corporation does not include practicing law.      In lieu of Section 1(a)(i) and (ii),
as well as Section 1(b) relating to non-solicitation, the following Section 1(a)(iii) shall apply to individuals who are employed by the Corporation in an attorney position, and whose occupation during the one-year (or two-year, for
Elected Officers) period following employment with the Corporation includes practicing law.       

(iii)  
     Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer    I acknowledge that as counsel to the Corporation, I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the
Corporation and that at least some of these obligations will continue even after my Termination Date with the      

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 17         

Corporation. I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully with all applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that I owe to the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable
law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not:         

(a)  
  Represent any client in the same or a substantially related matter in which I represented the Corporation where the client s interests are materially adverse to
the Corporation; or         

(b)  
  Disclose confidential information relating to my representation of the Corporation, including the disclosure of information that is to the disadvantage of the
Corporation, except for information that is or becomes generally known.        The Corporation s Senior Vice
President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary or the General Tax Counsel, as applicable, will determine in his or her discretion whether an individual is employed by the Corporation in an attorney position.   
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Required Approver, during the one-year period (two-year period for Elected
Officers) following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of the Corporation or
(ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.      (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any
non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates,
subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others
to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally
compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President,
General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which
were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means
Proprietary Information within the meaning of CRX-015C (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can
provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner,
might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:       

(i)  
    existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost
estimates,      

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 18         

forecasts, financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information
about customers or competitors, or         

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No Disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or
reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its directors, officers, employees, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.      (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future
litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my
employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to
cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement .
I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection
with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the LTIP is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are
necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level
executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably
required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional
Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term
Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 19         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be the exclusive
remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.      (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP, any cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and
(ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.      4.  Injunctive
Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and,
therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a)), the Corporation shall be entitled to injunctive relief in its
favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.   
  5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest
extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only
with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions .
Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International
Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, Airbus Group, Inc. and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and
(ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.   
  (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to,
products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 20         
   
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that,
(i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the
Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility,
and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on
the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such
access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.   
  (c)  Required Approver  means:       

(i)  
  with respect to the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, the Management and Development Committee of the Corporation s Board of Directors;

(ii)  
  with respect to an Elected Officer, the Corporation s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; or     

(iii)  
  with respect to all other employees, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Corporation.     
  (d)  Elected Officer  means an officer of the Corporation who was elected to his or her position by the Corporation s Board of Directors.
     7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The
Plan, the Award Agreement (with Exhibit B) and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this
PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District
Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the
Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain
obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between
the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 21         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major stockholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times  

Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times  

Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times  

Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times  

Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times  

Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times  

Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times  

Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units          
 
  Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their
target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period       Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and
Performance Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership requirements are not yet satisfied.   
  Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share ownership goals.   

PSU (Domestic and International)       Award Date: January 29, 2015            

THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING    
   SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933        
    Dear Awardee:      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Performance Stock Unit Award ( PSUs ) under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan, as amended (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the PSU Award Agreement and to set forth your Target
Award as well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. Your Target
Award and the Prospectus are available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.        Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2015.  If you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before
May 31, 2015, this Award will be forfeited.       Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this
Award Agreement as described above, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your
agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 18 and in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ), as amended from time to time, except where prohibited
by law.      The Corporation will comply with all applicable U.S. Tax withholding requirements applicable to the PSUs, the DDEs,
and associated Stock.  Please see the prospectus for the Plan for a discussion of certain material U.S. Tax consequences of the Award.  If you are a taxpayer in a country other than the U.S., you agree to make appropriate arrangements with
the Corporation or its subsidiaries for the satisfaction of all income and employment tax withholding requirements, as well as social insurance contributions applicable to the PSUs, the DDEs, and associated Stock.  

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 2         
   Please see the tax summary for your country at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . If you are a
taxpayer in a country other than the U.S., you represent that you will consult with your own tax advisors in connection with this Award and that you are not relying on the Corporation for any tax advice.  
  Any withholding Tax on your Award will be satisfied by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock (and associated
DDEs) deliverable to you in respect of a vested Award, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law. The Corporation shall also have the right to (i) offset any other obligation of the Corporation to you (including, but not
limited to withholding from your salary) by an amount sufficient to satisfy the Tax withholding obligation, or (ii) require you (or your Beneficiary) to pay the Corporation an amount equal to the Tax withholding obligation.   
  Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement either shall be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement
shall have the meaning given to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to PSUs set
forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.   

Section 1.   
    Shares Awarded; Performance Period; Vesting Period; Payment of Award .      
  1.1  Shares Awarded .      (a)  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be the number of whole shares of Stock identified as your Performance Stock Unit ( PSU )
Target Award in your account at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . Your Target Award shall be composed of three pieces:      (i)
Your Total Stockholder Return Performance Award (approximately 50% of the number of shares in your Target Award) as described in Section 2.1(a);      (ii) Your ROIC Performance Award (approximately 25% of the number of shares in your Target Award) as described in Section 2.1(b);   
  (iii) Your Cash Flow Performance Award (approximately 25% of the number of shares in your Target Award) as described in
Section 2.1(c).      The Award paid to you shall be calculated in accordance with Section 2.1. The allocation of your
Award among your Total Stockholder Return Performance Award, your ROIC Performance Award, and your Cash Flow Performance Award will be made by the Committee based on applicable accounting principles.   
  (b)  Maximum Award . Your Maximum Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be the number of shares of Stock
equal to 200% of your Target Award, subject to the provisions of Section 2.1 and the caps contained therein.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 3         
   (c)  Deferred Dividend Equivalents ( DDEs ) . Your Award shall include a
payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned the numbers of whole shares of Stock equal to your final Award from the Award Date until the end of the Performance Period.   
  1.2  Performance Period . The  Performance Period  under this Award Agreement is the three-year performance period that
runs from January 1, 2015, until December 31, 2017.      1.3  Vesting Period . The  Vesting Period  under
this Award Agreement is the three-year period that runs from January 29, 2015, until the later of (i) January 29, 2018, or (ii) the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the
Code) that an amount up to your Maximum Award has become an Award for the Performance Period.      1.4  Payment of Award .
Your Award will be paid to you in whole shares of Stock (either in book entry or paper form). The final number of whole shares, if any, payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance with respect to each of the
metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4, the limits described in Section 2 and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance with Section 5. As a result of these requirements, the number of whole shares of
Stock you receive at the end of the Vesting Period will be between 0% and 200% of your Target Award (based on each factor described in Section 2.1 below) and may be smaller than your Maximum Award (or the performance factors could result in no
payment in respect of your Award). Any certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. If you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ), delivery of Stock in payment of your Award for any reason may be delayed for six months. For example, if the delivery of the Stock would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, delivery will be delayed until the earliest date upon which the delivery either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of
the Exchange Act.       

Section 2.   
    Calculation of Award Payments .         2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any shares of Stock being issued,   
  (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor (as described in Section 3.2) based on the
Corporation s performance during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1. Approximately one-half (50%) of the number of
shares in your Target Award shall be multiplied by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor with the resulting number of shares to be known as the Total Stockholder Return Performance Award. Fractional shares shall be rounded up to the next
whole share. If the Corporation s Average TSR for the three-year Performance Period is negative, the maximum Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor shall not exceed 100%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Stock you

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 4         
   
receive as your Total Stockholder Return Performance Award shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that the Fair Market Value of the shares underlying your Total Stockholder Return
Performance Award on the last day of the Performance Period does not exceed the product of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Award Date, multiplied by (b) 400%, multiplied by (c) the number of shares underlying your
Total Stockholder Return Performance Award.      (b) The Committee will calculate the ROIC Performance Factor (as described in
Section 4.1) based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period as set forth in the January 28, 2015 Committee resolution ( ROIC Target ). Approximately
one-quarter (25%) of the number of shares in your Target Award will be multiplied by the ROIC Performance Factor with the resulting number of shares to be known as the ROIC Performance Award. Fractional shares shall be rounded up to the next
whole share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Stock you receive as your ROIC Performance Award shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that the Fair Market Value of the shares underlying your ROIC Performance Award on the
last day of the Performance Period does not exceed the product of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Award Date, multiplied by (b) 400%, multiplied by (c) the number of shares underlying your ROIC Performance Award.
     (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance Factor (as described in Section 4.2) based on the
Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow for the Performance Period as set forth the January 28, 2015 Committee resolution ( Cash Flow Target ).
Approximately one-quarter (25%) of the number of shares in your Target Award will be multiplied by the Cash Flow Performance Factor with the resulting number of shares to be known as the Cash Flow Performance Award. Fractional shares shall be
rounded up to the next whole share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Stock you receive as your Cash Flow Performance Award shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that the Fair Market Value of the shares underlying your
Cash Flow Performance Award on the last day of the Performance Period does not exceed the product of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Award Date, multiplied by (b) 400%, multiplied by (c) the number of shares
underlying your Cash Flow Performance Award.      (d) Your Total Stockholder Return Performance Award, your ROIC Performance Award,
and your Cash Flow Performance Award shall be added together to determine the total number of shares to be paid to you as your final Award.      You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through the last day of the Vesting Period to receive your Award. No portion of your Award will be payable until it is
fully vested in accordance with Sections 5.1 and 5.2.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 5         
    Section 3.  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .       
  3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the
Corporation s Average TSR (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average TSR for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of
the corporations which compose the Standard and Poor s Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of the Stock. With respect to the
corporations that make up the Standard and Poor s Aerospace and Defense Index, the Total Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the
equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing the Standard and Poor s Aerospace and Defense Index.   
  3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .   
  (a)  Calculation of Average TSR . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the Total Stockholder Return (as defined
in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for 36 periods during the Performance Period where each period begins on January 1, 2015, (based
on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2014) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be
computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the 36 Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder
Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK
function).      (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, expressed as a
percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the Corporation s Average TSR for the
Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 6         
   If the Corporation s Average TSR for the three-year Performance Period is negative,
the maximum Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor shall not exceed 100%.       

Section 4.   
    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .         4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to the ROIC Target and then identifying the ROIC
Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following table:       
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment
of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the average of the highest marginal federal corporate income tax rates over the three-year
Performance Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average thirteen quarter-end investment balances (beginning with the quarter-end immediately preceding the beginning of the Performance Period) consisting of (i) debt (including
current maturities of long-term debt) plus (ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined quarterly as included in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.   
  (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the
Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be based upon the comparable numbers reported on the
Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make its determination in a manner consistent with the
historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for purposes of reporting those items on its audited
financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting standards that is required under generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s filings with   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 7         
   
the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2015 Long Range Plan, and the change in
ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).      4.2  Cash
Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the Cash Flow Target, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor
based upon the factor associated with the change from the Cash Flow Target on the following table:       
    (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  Cash Flow  means net
cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2015 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit
pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business
units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2015 Long Range Plan.      (b)  Cash
Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the
period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited
consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.      4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash
Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC
Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period falls short of the ROIC Target by more than 30 basis points and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period
falls short of the Cash Flow Target by more than $0.7 billion.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 8         

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Award as determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the Corporation
through the last day of the Vesting Period. Except as provided below or where prohibited by law, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Vesting Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Award. If you
are on Corporation-approved leave of absence at any point during the Vesting Period, for purposes of this Award Agreement, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation, unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and
the Corporation.      (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   
  (i) that your employment as an Employee terminated, as a result of your death, Divestiture, Total Disability or Retirement (each as
defined in Section 5.1(c)) or      (ii) that the Corporation terminated your employment involuntarily after July 29,
2015, as a result of a layoff, including through a voluntary layoff program that constitutes a window program under Section 409A of the Code,      you shall be eligible to receive a fraction of your Award and the DDEs with respect to such fraction. The numerator of such fraction shall equal the number of days in the Vesting Period before your
employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Vesting Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and
all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation. If you terminate employment during the Vesting Period but are eligible to receive a portion of
your Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Award and DDEs shall be in full satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.   
  (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award Agreement:   
  (i) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a  Total Disability  on the date you commence
receiving a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in the Corporation s long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under
the plan under which you would have been covered, had you enrolled, using the standards set forth in that plan;      (ii) Your
employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 9         
   
termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the other party in the Divestiture. A  Divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in
the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned
or controlled directly or indirectly by the Corporation; and      (iii) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as
terminating because of  Retirement  if the effective date of your termination of employment is after July 29, 2015, and (1) you reach age 65 with six months of service in the Vesting Period, or (2) you reach age 55 and have
(at the time of your termination) completed at least ten years of service with the Corporation. The effective date of your termination is the first of the month following the date you terminate services with the Corporation.   
  (d)  Rules Applicable to Canadian Employees . If you are employed in Canada, for purposes of the Award Agreement, the date of
termination of employment will be the last day of actual and active employment. For the avoidance of doubt, except as may be required by applicable minimum standards legislation, no period of notice or payment in lieu of notice that is given or that
ought to have been given under any applicable law or contract in respect of such termination of employment that follows or is in respect of a period after your last day of actual and active employment, if any, will be considered as extending your
period of employment for the purposes of determining your entitlement under this Agreement.      5.2.  Payment Rules .
     (a)  Vesting . If you are eligible to receive an Award under Section 5.1(a) or a fraction of an Award under
Section 5.1(b), your Award shall vest on the last day of the Vesting Period.      (b)  Method of Payment . Your Award
shall be paid in whole shares of Stock. DDEs on the shares underlying your Award, if any, shall be paid in cash. In the event of your death, your payment will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed Beneficiary designation
form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.      (c)  Timing of
Payment . You shall have the right to receive your Award plus DDEs as soon as administratively practicable following the Vesting Period, but no later than 60 days after the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of
Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become an Award for the Performance Period (for taxpayers in Canada or as otherwise required by local country law, no later than December 31   st    of the year in which your Award is certified).   
  5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to the extent that such payment together with payments
attributable to any other Share-Based Awards that are granted during 2015 as Performance-Based Awards exceeds 1,000,000 shares of Stock. Amounts in excess of 1,000,000 shares shall be forfeited. Any DDEs on forfeited shares shall also be forfeited.

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 10         

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .            You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so shall be
null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the Corporation s general
assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation. Until a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you will not have the
right to vote your PSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber PSUs; and you will not have the right to receive any dividends paid
to stockholders or dividend equivalents on the PSUs.       

Section 7.   
    Plan .         
  This Award Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.   

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .      
  8.1.  Change in Control during the Performance Period .      (a) In the event of a consummation of a Change in Control during the Performance Period, your Target Award (and DDEs) will become vested (i) on the effective date of the Change in Control if the PSUs
are not assumed, continued, or equivalent restricted securities are not substituted for your PSUs by the Corporation or its successor, or (ii) if the PSUs are assumed, continued or substituted by the Corporation or its successor, on the
effective date of your involuntary termination other than for Cause (not including death or Total Disability) or your voluntary termination with Good Reason, in either case, within the 24-month period following the consummation of the Change in
Control; provided that any such termination is also a  separation from service  under Code section 409A.      (b) In the
event the PSUs vest in accordance with this Section 8.1 (whether immediately following the Change in Control or following your termination), the shares of Stock or equivalent substituted securities in which you have become vested and DDEs shall
be delivered to you within 14 days of the date on which you become vested.      8.2.  Change in Control during the Vesting
Period .      (a) In the event of a consummation of a Change in Control after the end of the Performance Period but during the
Vesting Period, you will vest in your Target Award (and DDEs) (i) on the effective date of the Change in Control if the PSUs are not assumed or continued or equivalent restricted securities are not

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 11         
   
substituted for your PSUs by the Corporation or its successor, or (ii) on the on the earlier of the end of the Vesting Period or the effective date of your termination if the PSUs are
assumed, continued or substituted for, upon your involuntary termination other than for Cause (not including death or Total Disability) or your voluntary termination with Good Reason, in either case, prior to the end of the Vesting Period.
     (b) In the event the PSUs vest in accordance with this Section 8.2 (whether immediately following the Change in Control
or following your termination), the shares of Stock or equivalent substituted securities in which you have become vested and DDEs shall be delivered to you within 14 days of the date on which you become vested.   
  8.3  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award Agreement:   
  (a)  Cause  shall mean either of the following:      (i) Conviction for an act of fraud, embezzlement, theft or other act constituting a felony (other than traffic-related offenses or as a result of vicarious liability); or   
  (ii) Willful misconduct that is materially injurious to the Corporation s financial position, operating results or reputation;
provided, however that no act or failure to act shall be considered  willful  unless done, or omitted to be done, by you (a) in bad faith; (b) for the purpose of receiving an actual improper personal benefit in the form of money,
property or services; or (c) in circumstances where you had reasonable cause to believe that the act or failure to act was unlawful.      (b)  Good Reason  shall mean, without your express written consent, the occurrence of any one or more of the following after the Change in Control:   
  (i) A material and substantial reduction in the nature or status of your authority or responsibilities;   
  (ii) A material reduction in your annualized rate of base salary;      (iii) A material reduction in the aggregate value of your level of participation in any short or long term incentive cash compensation plan, employee benefit or retirement plan or compensation practices,
arrangements, or policies;      (iv) A material reduction in the aggregate level of participation in equity-based incentive
compensation plans; or      (v) Your principal place of employment is relocated to a location that is greater than 50 miles from
your principal place of employment on the date the Change in Control is consummated.      Your continued employment
following an event that would constitute a basis for voluntary termination with Good Reason shall not constitute Good   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 12         
   
Reason if you consent to, or waive your rights with respect to any circumstances constituting Good Reason. In addition, the occurrence of an event described in (i) through (v) shall
constitute the basis for voluntary termination for Good Reason only if you provide written notice of your intent to terminate employment within 90 days of the first occurrence of such event and the Corporation has had at least 30 days from the date
on which such notice is provided to cure such occurrence. If you do not terminate employment for Good Reason within 180 days after the first occurrence of the applicable grounds, then you will be deemed to have waived your right to terminate for
Good Reason with respect to such grounds.      8.4.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1 or 8.2, if a payment in
accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would
not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.       

Section 9.   
    Amendment and Termination .            As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment due to Section 409A of the Code or Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this
Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Code and the amount payable is reduced solely
by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of valuation of a share of Stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to
amend this Award Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and of Section 409A of the Code, including amendments regarding the timing
and form of payments hereunder.       

Section 10.   
    Data Privacy Consent For Employees Located Outside Of The United States .      
  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as
described in this Award Agreement by and among the Corporation for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or
other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor,
for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 13         
   
the Plan ( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may
be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential
recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and
managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Corporation may elect to administer the settlement of any award. You understand that Data will
be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any
necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your
ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.   

Section 11.   
    No Assurance of Employment; No Right to an Award; Value of Award .         
  Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the
Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause. You acknowledge and agree as
follows:      (a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Board of Directors may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any
time;      (b) the grant of the PSUs are voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive
future grants of any PSUs, or benefits in lieu of any PSUs even if PSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past;      (c) all
determinations with respect to such future PSUs, if any, including but not limited to the times when PSUs shall be granted or when PSUs shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;   
  (d) your participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (e) the value of the PSUs are an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside the scope of your employment contract (if any), except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in your employment
contract;      (f) the PSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited
to, calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits;   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 14         
   (g) the PSUs shall expire upon termination of your employment for any reason except as
may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan and this Award Agreement;      (h) the future value of the shares is unknown and
cannot be predicted with certainty; and      (i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of
the PSUs or diminution in value of the PSUs or Stock and you irrevocably release the Corporation from any such claim that may arise.       
 
  In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.   
   
    It is the intent of the Company that your Award not be subject to taxation under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code. Nevertheless, in the event that your Award is or could be subject to Section 409A
of the Code, as determined by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, in consultation with the General Tax Counsel or his or her delegate, the following rules apply: (i) the Award will be interpreted and administered to meet the
requirements of Sections 409A(a)(2), (3) and (4) of the Code and thus to be exempt from taxation under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code; (ii) no Award payment will be made on account of your termination of employment unless the
termination of employment constitutes a  separation from service  under Code section 409A(a)(2)(a)(i); and (iii) if you are a  specified employee  within the meaning of Code section 409A, any payment in respect of this Award
made on account of a termination of employment will be delayed for six (6) months following such termination of employment, and then made at the earliest date permitted by Section 409A of the Code.   

Section 14.   
    Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .         Except where prohibited by law, by accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained in Exhibit A to this Award
Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements as amended from time to time. If you
are not a Vice President (or above) on January 29, 2015, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 29, 2018, the Ownership Requirements as in effect at that time shall become applicable to you on the date of your
promotion to Vice President (or above).       

Section 15.   
    English Language .      
  You have received the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement and any other related communications, and you consent to having
received these documents, in English. If you have received this Award Agreement or any other documents related to the Plan translated into a language other than English, and if the translated version is different from the English version, the
English version will control.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 15         
    Quebec Residents Only : The Parties have agreed that this Award Agreement, the
Plan as well as any notice, document or instrument relating to them be drawn up in English only. You acknowledge that, upon your reasonable request, the Corporation will provide a French translation of such documents to you. Les
parties aux pr sentes ont convenu que la pr sente accord, le  Plan,  ainsi que tous autres avis, actes ou documents s y rattachant soient r dig s en anglais seulement. Vous reconnaissez que,  
votre demande raisonnable,  the Corporation  fournit une traduction fran aise de ces documents   vous.       

Section 16.   
    Currency Exchange Risk .         If your functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, you agree and acknowledge that you will bear any and all risk associated with the exchange or fluctuation of currency associated with the Award (the
 Currency Exchange Risk ). You waive and release the Corporation and its subsidiaries from any potential claims arising out of the Currency Exchange Risk.       

Section 17.   
    Exchange Control Requirements.          You agree and acknowledge that you will comply with any and all exchange control requirements applicable to the Award and any resulting funds including, without limitation, reporting or repatriation
requirements.       

Section 18.   
    Execution; Electronic Delivery.          By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery
of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy statement and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted below. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Award under the Plan or future Awards that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means or request your consent to participate in the Plan by
electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through any on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Corporation or another third party designated by
the Corporation.       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by  completing the electronic
receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2015. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by
you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and
constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 16         
   
to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31,
2015, as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       
   
    Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be
effective as of the Award Date.        

Sincerely,   

Patricia L. Lewis   
 
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   

Acknowledged by:  

Signature  

Date   

Print Name  

Employee ID   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 17         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR  
      
    3.2(a)   
 
  Award  
      
  6   th        
 
  Award Date  
      
  Header   
 
  Cash Flow  
      
    4.2(a)   
 
  Cash Flow Performance Award  
      
    2.1(c)   
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor  
  Cash Flow Target   
      
      4.2      
2.1(c)    
 
  Cause  
      
    8.3(a)   
 
  Change in Control  
      
  Plan   
 
  Code  
      
  Plan   
 
  Committee  
      
  1   st        
 
  Corporation  
      
  6   th        
 
  DDE  
      
    1.1(c)   
 
  Divestiture  
      
    5.1(c)(2)   
 
  Employee  
      
  Plan   
 
  Exchange Act  
      
  Plan   
 
  Fair Market Value  
      
  Plan   
 
  Good Reason  
      
    8.3(b)   
 
  Insider  
      
  Plan   
 
  Maximum Award  
      
    1.1(b)   
 
  Peer Performance Group  
      
    3.1   
 
  Performance-Based Award  
      
  Plan   
 
  Performance Period  
      
    1.2   
 
  Plan  
      
  1   st        
 
  PSU  
      
    1.1(a)   
 
  Retirement  
      
    5.1(c)(3)   
 
  Return  
      
    4.1(a)   
 
  ROIC  
      
    4.1(a)   
 
  ROIC Performance Award  
      
    2.1(b)   
 
    ROIC Performance Factor     ROIC
Target     Share-Based Awards   
      
      4.1      
2.1(b)     Plan    
 
  Stock  
      
  Plan   
 
  Target Award  
      
  6   th       1.1(a)   
 
  Total Disability  
      
    5.1(c)(1)   
 
  Total Stockholder Return  
      
  Plan;   3.2(a)   
 
  Total Stockholder Return Performance Award  
      
    2.1(a)   
 
  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor  
      
    3.1;   3.2   
 
  Vesting Period  
      
    1.3   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 18         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (PSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 29, 2015 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of performance restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  PSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin
Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan, as amended (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the PSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the  Required Approver  (as defined in Section 6), during the one-year period (or two-year period for Elected
Officers) following the date of my termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in
Section 6), whether as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,      (i) oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined in Section 6) of or by the
Restricted Company, or      (ii) would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as
defined in Section 1(c)) of the Corporation (including but not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged
or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation, information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the
Corporation.      Section 1(a)(i) and (ii) shall not apply to residents of California.   
  To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct (such as the ABA
Model Rules of Professional Conduct and state versions thereof), Sections 1(a)(i) and (ii) and Section 1(b) relating to non-solicitation, shall apply to individuals who are employed by the Corporation in an attorney position and whose
occupation during the one-year (or two-year, for Elected Officers) period following employment with the Corporation does not include practicing law.   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 19         
   In lieu of Section 1(a)(i) and (ii), as well as Section 1(b) relating to
non-solicitation, the following Section 1(a)(iii) shall apply to individuals who are employed by the Corporation in an attorney position, and whose occupation during the one-year (or two-year, for Elected Officers) period following employment
with the Corporation includes practicing law.      (iii) Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer   I acknowledge that as counsel
to the Corporation, I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the Corporation and that at least some of these obligations will continue even after my Termination Date with the Corporation. I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully
with all applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that I owe to the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not:   

(a)  
  Represent any client in the same or a substantially related matter in which I represented the Corporation where the client s interests are materially adverse to
the Corporation; or         

(b)  
  Disclose confidential information relating to my representation of the Corporation, including the disclosure of information that is to the disadvantage of the
Corporation, except for information that is or becomes generally known.        The Corporation s Senior Vice
President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary or the General Tax Counsel, as applicable, will determine in his or her discretion whether an individual is employed by the Corporation in an attorney position.   
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Required Approver, during the one-year period (two-year period
for Elected Officers) following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of the
Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.      (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any
non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates,
subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others
to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally
compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 20         
   
Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to
which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CRX-015C (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized
disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or
agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   
  (i) existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing
information, cost estimates, forecasts, financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or
competitors, or      (ii) existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how,
equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.
     (d)  No Disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written,
that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its directors, officers, employees, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested,
cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to
provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA,
nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the PSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 21         
   
restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the
Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary
Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.       (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a PSU Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and
Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:      (i) I breach any of the covenants or agreements in
Section       (ii) The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or
(b) my failure to report another person s intentional misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its
financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and Exchange Commission;      (iii) The Corporation determines that I
engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation)
contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the Corporation s financial position or reputation; or      (iv) Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback  Benefits and Proceeds  (as
defined below).      (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation
for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.      (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I own Stock issued in respect of vested PSUs, such Stock; (ii) to the extent I no longer own
the shares of Stock of the Corporation issued in respect of the PSUs, cash in an amount equal to the greater of (x) the value of such Stock on the date the associated PSUs vested (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 22         
   
Common as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (y) the proceeds received in connection with the disposition of such Stock; and (iii) to the extent I have
not earned the PSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in my Award and any accrued dividend equivalents with respect thereto.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a)), the Corporation shall be entitled to injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.   
  5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to
the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to
apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes
of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company,
General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, Airbus Group, Inc. and
(i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization,
consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or
Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the
Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or
operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the
subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area,
division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business
area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for   

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 23         
   
which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the
Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      (c)  Required Approver  means:
     (i) with respect to the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, the Management and Development Committee of the
Corporation s Board of Directors;      (ii) with respect to an Elected Officer, the Corporation s Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer; or      (iii) with respect to all other employees, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation.      (d)  Elected Officer  means an officer of the Corporation who was elected to his or her position by the
Corporation s Board of Directors.      7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement (with Exhibit B) and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the
PSUs to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any
enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of
Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of PSU under
the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my PSU Award.    

Award Date: January 29, 2015      Page 24         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major stockholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times  

Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times  

Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times  

Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times  

Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times  

Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times  

Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times  

Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units          
 
  Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their
target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period       Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and
Performance Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership requirements are not yet satisfied.   
  Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share ownership goals.   

</EX-10.30>

<EX-12>
 5
 d808572dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12   
  Lockheed Martin Corporation   
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
  (in millions, except ratios)       
   The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is a measure of our ability to meet the interest requirements of our
outstanding debt securities and leases with current period earnings. A high ratio indicates that earnings are sufficient to cover our current interest requirements.  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 d808572dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21   
  Subsidiaries of Lockheed Martin Corporation       

Name of Subsidiary  
  
  Place of Formation     

Lockheed Martin Aerospace Systems Integration Corporation  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Australia Pty Limited  
  
 Australia  
 
   Lockheed Martin Business Technology Solutions Limited  
  
 United Kingdom  
 
   Lockheed Martin Canada Inc.  
  
 Canada  
 
   Lockheed Martin Desktop Solutions, Inc.  
  
 Virginia  
 
   Lockheed Martin Engine Investments, LLC  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Global, Inc.  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Integrated Systems, Inc.  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology, LLC  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin International Service Corporation  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Investments Inc.  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Logistics Management, Inc.  
  
 Oklahoma  
 
   Lockheed Martin Operations Support, Inc.  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Services, Inc.  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin Space Alliance Company  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Lockheed Martin UK Ampthill Limited  
  
 United Kingdom  
 
   Lockheed Martin UK Limited  
  
 United Kingdom  
 
   QTC Holdings Inc.  
  
 Delaware  
 
   QTC Management, Inc.  
  
 California  
 
   Sandia Corporation (d/b/a Sandia National Laboratories)  
  
 Delaware  
 
   Sytex, Inc.  
  
 Pennsylvania  
 
   Zeta Associates, Inc.  
  
 Virginia  
   We have additional operating subsidiaries that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not
constitute a significant subsidiary.    All of the above listed subsidiaries have been consolidated in our consolidated financial
statements.  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 d808572dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23   
  Consent of Ernst   Young LLP,   
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated February 9, 2015, with respect to the consolidated
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Lockheed Martin Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2014, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, in the following Registration Statements of Lockheed Martin Corporation:      

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP  
 McLean, Virginia  
 February 9, 2015  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 d808572dex24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, her lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for her and in her name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as she might or could do in person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, her lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for her and in her name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 20134 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with
exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the
undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as she might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

/s/ Douglas H. McCorkindale   
 
 DOUGLAS H. McCORKINDALE  
 
 Director  

January 29, 2015   

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      

POWER OF ATTORNEY   
  LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION     The
undersigned hereby constitutes Maryanne R. Lavan, Stephen M. Piper, Marian S. Block, and Kerri R. Morey, and each of them, jointly and severally, her lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for her and in her name, place
and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits
and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.    Further, the undersigned
grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as she might or could do in person,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or any substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 d808572dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1   
  CERTIFICATION OF MARILLYN A. HEWSON PURSUANT TO   
  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
 I, Marillyn A. Hewson, certify that:      

1. 
   I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lockheed Martin Corporation;     

2. 
   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3. 
   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a) 
   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b) 
   Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c) 
   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures, and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d) 
   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;

5. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

(a) 
   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b) 
   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

/s/ Marillyn A. Hewson   
 
   Marillyn A. Hewson   
 
   Chief Executive Officer   
 
  Date: February 9, 2015  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 d808572dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2   
  CERTIFICATION OF BRUCE L. TANNER PURSUANT TO   
  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
 I, Bruce L. Tanner, certify that:      

1. 
   I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Lockheed Martin Corporation;     

2. 
   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3. 
   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a) 
   Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b) 
   Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c) 
   Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures, and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d) 
   Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;

5. 
   The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):     

(a) 
   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b) 
   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

/s/ Bruce L. Tanner   
 
   Bruce L. Tanner   
 
   Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Date: February 9, 2015  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 d808572dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32   
  CERTIFICATION OF MARILLYN A. HEWSON AND BRUCE L. TANNER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C.   
  SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   
 In connection with the Annual Report of Lockheed Martin Corporation (the  Corporation ) on Form 10-K for the period
ended December 31, 2014, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Marillyn A. Hewson, Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and I, Bruce L. Tanner, Chief Financial Officer
of the Corporation, each certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:      

(1) 
   The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2) 
   The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Corporation.          

/s/ Marillyn A. Hewson   
 
   Marillyn A. Hewson   
 
   Chief Executive Officer   

/s/ Bruce L. Tanner   
 
   Bruce L. Tanner   
 
   Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Date: February 9, 2015  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 lmt-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 lmt-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 lmt-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 lmt-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 lmt-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 lmt-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

