<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080228_10-K_edgar_data_1390777_0001193125-08-041952_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4608558</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>644904</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>90556</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3189306</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>180</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-041952.hdr.sgml : 20080228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080228170330
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-041952
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Bank of New York Mellon CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001390777
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-52710
		FILM NUMBER:		08651502

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-495-1784

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ORW956Ri/Soy29rZhSP6Zj+hs3wj34+n6a4B2muX8VZvPavcdZ1n+SVmMqksmKgx
 AmrciDcyCkf9WrSoSmUEZw==

 0001193125-08-041952.txt : 20080228

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

       UNITED STATES      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549               FORM 10-K         [     ]   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the      Securities Exchange Act of 1934       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007
      or        [      ]   Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the      Securities Exchange Act of 1934      Commission File No. 000-52710       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Delaware  

13-2614959   
 
    (State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   
    One Wall Street      New York, New York 10286      (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)      Registrant s telephone number, including area code - (212) 495-1784      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class   

Name of each exchange on which registered    
 
  Common Stock, $0.01 par value  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6.875% Preferred Trust Securities, Series E  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
  5.95% Preferred Trust Securities, Series F  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
  6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal  

New York Stock Exchange   
 
        Preferred Capital Securities of Mellon Capital IV,         fully and unconditionally guaranteed by   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      None      (Title of Class)      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities      Act.  [     ] Yes  [    ] No      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the      Act.  [    ] Yes  [     ] No      Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.        [    
]  Yes [    ] No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.  [  ]      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer
or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Checkone):   

Large accelerated filer  [     ]  
     
  Accelerated filer  [    ]  
     
  Non-accelerated filer  [    ]  
     
  Smaller reporting company  [    ]   

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  [    ] Yes [     ] No      As of June 30, 2007, 714,335,213 shares, of the
total outstanding shares of 716,999,851, of the outstanding voting common stock of the registrant s predecessor, The Bank of New York Company, Inc., $7.50 par value per share, having a market value of $31,380,745,907, were held by
nonaffiliates.      As of January 31, 2008, 1,141,369,188 shares of the registrant s voting common stock, $0.01 par value per share, were
outstanding.      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE      Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference in the following parts of this Annual Report:      The Bank of New
York Mellon Corporation 2008 Proxy Statement-Part III      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders-Parts I,
II, III and IV       

Table of Contents  

     Available Information       This Form 10-K filed by the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( The Bank of New York Mellon  or
 BNY Mellon  or the  Corporation ) with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) contains the Exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 36, including those portions of the Corporation s
2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (the  Annual Report ) which are incorporated by reference herein. For a free copy of BNY Mellon s Annual Report or the Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting, as filed with the SEC, send a
written request to the Secretary of the Corporation, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286. BNY Mellon s Annual Report is, and the Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting upon filing with the SEC will be, available on our Internet site at
www.bnymellon.com. We also make available, free of charge, on our Internet site the Corporation s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The following materials are also available, free of charge, on our Internet site at www.bnymellon.com under  Investor Relations, Corporate
Governance  and are also available free of charge in print by written request from the Secretary of the Corporation at One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286:       

the Corporation s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees, including the Corporation s senior financial officers;

the Corporation s Corporate Governance Guidelines; and          

the Charters of Audit and Examining, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Human Resources and Compensation, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors.
        The contents of BNY Mellon s Internet site are not part of this Form 10-K.         
     Forward-Looking Statements       This Form 10-K contains statements relating to future results of the Corporation
that are considered  forward-looking statements.  These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways, including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things: The impact of increases in insurance
assessments, the impact of Basel II, the effect of technological innovations and long-term global business trends, the effect of worldwide pension reform, the impact of regulatory accords and implementing regulations on capital requirements and
other aspects of our business, the impact of developments in the securities processing industry, the impact of non-prosecution and settlement agreements with governmental authorities, the adequacy of tax reserves and the impact of legal and
regulatory proceedings. These forward-looking statements, and other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of the Corporation (including those incorporated in this Form 10-K) are based on assumptions that involve risks and
uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond the Corporation s control), including those factors described in Item 1A. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed
or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process.      All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is
made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.      In this Form 10-K, references to  our,   we,   us,  the
 company,  the  Company,  the  Corporation  and similar terms for periods prior to July 1, 2007, refer to The Bank of New York Company, Inc., and references to  our,   we,   us,  the
 Company,  the  Corporation  and similar terms for periods on or after July 1, 2007, refer to BNY Mellon.   

Table of Contents  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        FORM 10-K INDEX            

PART I        

Item 1.  

Business   
      
  3  

Item 1A.  

Risk factors   
      
  13  

Item 1B.  

Unresolved staff comments   
      
  22  

Item 2.  

Properties   
      
  22  

Item 3.  

Legal and regulatory proceedings   
      
  23  

Item 4.  

Submission of matters to a vote of security holders   
      
  24  

Executive Officers of the Registrant    
      
  25  

PART II        

Item 5.  

Market for the registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities    
      
  26  

Item 6.  

Selected financial data   
      
  26  

Item 7.  

Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations    
      
  26  

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk   
      
  26  

Item 8.  

Financial statements and supplementary data   
      
  26  

Item 9.  

Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure    
      
  26  

Item 9A.  

Controls and procedures   
      
  26  

Item 9B.  
        
  Other information  
      
  Not applicable  

PART III        

Item 10.  

Directors, executive officers and corporate governance   
      
  28  

Item 11.  

Executive compensation   
      
  32  

Item 12.  

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters    
      
  32  

Item 13.  

Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence   
      
  32  

Item 14.  

Principal accountant fees and services   
      
  32  

PART IV        

Item 15.  

Exhibits and financial statement schedules    
      
  33  

Signatures   
      
  35  

Index to exhibits   
      
  36  

2 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART I                     
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS         Description of Business        On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. ( The Bank of New York Co. ) and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( The Bank
of New York Mellon ,  BNY Mellon  or the  Corporation ), with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon by The Bank of New York Co. for accounting and financial reporting
purposes. For additional information on the merger, see  Introduction  on page 2 in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders ( Annual Report ) and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which
portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.      The Bank of New York Mellon is a global financial services company headquartered in
New York, New York, with approximately $1.121 trillion in assets under management and $23.1 trillion in assets under custody and administration. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s products and services, see  Overview  in the
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of the Company s Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) section in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.
See  Available Information  on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      We were originally formed as a holding company for The Bank of New York, which has its executive offices in New
York. With its predecessors, The Bank of New York has been in business since 1784. In addition to The Bank of New York, our bank subsidiaries include Mellon Bank, N.A., headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Mellon Trust of New England, National
Association, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts; Mellon United National Bank, headquartered in Miami, Florida; and Mellon 1   st    Business Bank,
National Association, headquartered in Los Angeles, California. Our bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the   
  banking   
   
 subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) to the extent provided by law.      We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing and Execution Services; Treasury Services
and Other. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s products and services, see  Sector overview  and  Business segments review  in the MD A section of the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Information on international operations is presented in the Annual Report in       Net Interest Revenue-Consolidated Balance Sheet Average Balances
and Interest Yield/Rates ,  International Operations ,  International Operations-International Financial Data ,  International Operations-Cross-Border Risk  and  Consolidated Balance Sheet Review Other
loans,  which are incorporated herein by reference.       Principal Entities       Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2007.       Discontinued Operations       As discussed in Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, BNY Mellon is reporting
results using the discontinued operations method of accounting. This Note is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless other noted.   
    Supervision and Regulation        BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries are
subject to an extensive system of banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of the customers and depositors of BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries rather than holders of BNY Mellon s securities. These laws and
regulations govern such areas as levels of capital, permissible activities, reserves, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Similarly, our subsidiaries engaged in investment advisory and other securities related
activities are subject to   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 3   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations that are intended to benefit clients of investment advisors and shareholders in mutual funds rather than
holders of BNY Mellon s securities. In addition, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are subject to general U.S. federal laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of the states or countries in which BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are
organized or conduct businesses. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by
reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of
BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries.       Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon       BNY Mellon is regulated as a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act (the  BHC Act ). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ). In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies that are
financial holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to
banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either
(1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC )) or (2) complementary to a financial
activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities
underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.      In order for a bank holding company to
engage in the broader range of activities that are permitted by   
    the BHC Act for bank holding companies that are also financial holding companies, (1) all of its depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed and (2) it must file a declaration with the
Federal Reserve Board that it elects to be a  Financial Holding Company  ( FHC ). In addition, to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act and to acquire any company engaged in any new activities permitted by the BHC
Act, each insured depository institution of the financial holding company must have received at least a  satisfactory  rating in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the  Community Reinvestment
Act ).      A FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the
ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies or to continue such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements. BNY Mellon s national bank subsidiaries, including
Mellon Bank, N.A. and The Bank of New York Trust Company N.A., are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. The Bank of New York, which is one of BNY Mellon s principal bank subsidiaries, is a New York chartered
banking corporation, is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the  NYSBD ). Mellon Securities Trust Company,
The Dreyfus Trust Company and Mellon Trust of New York are New York trust companies and are supervised by the NYSBD. Mellon Trust of California is a California trust company and is supervised by the State of California Department of Financial
Institutions. Mellon Trust of Washington is a Washington trust company and is supervised by the Division of Banks of the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions. BNYM (Delaware) is a Delaware bank and is supervised by the Office of the
Delaware State Banking Commissioner.      Under Federal Reserve Board policy, BNY Mellon is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank
subsidiaries and to commit resources to support them, including in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would   
       
   4  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
    be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. BNY Mellon s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities related activities are regulated by the SEC. We operate a number of
broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are registered broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), a securities industry
self-regulatory organization.      Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the
 40 Act ) and, as such, are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant
supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are
registered with the SEC under the 40 Act, including the Dreyfus/Founders family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the 40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our subsidiaries are
qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are
exempt from such registration or qualification.      Certain of BNY Mellon s United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment
business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( FSMA 2000 ). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the Financial
Services Authority ( FSA ). In addition to broad supervisory powers, the FSA may discipline the businesses it regulates. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated
business following a breach of FSMA 2000 and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including Mellon Investment
Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of BNY   
    Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.      Certain of BNY Mellon s public finance activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. BNY Mellon Bank and certain of BNY Mellon s other subsidiaries are registered with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (the  CFTC ) as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.      The types of
activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are
also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.       Dividend Restrictions       BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds
to make capital contributions or loans to our bank and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust-preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own
equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory approval. For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the first
four paragraphs of Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which paragraphs are incorporated herein by reference. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its
jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank
cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would deplete a depository institution s capital
base to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the  FDI Act ), an insured depository   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  5   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become
undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating
earnings.      The ability of BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements
for banking organizations, as described below. In addition, BNY Mellon s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.       Transactions with Affiliates       There are certain restrictions on the
ability of BNY Mellon and certain of its non-bank affiliates to borrow from, and engage in other transactions with, its bank subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of
specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such
lending bank s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. In addition,
certain transactions with affiliates must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving
other non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.       Unsafe and Unsound Practices       The OCC has authority under the
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit national banks from engaging in any activity which, in the OCC s opinion, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their businesses. The Federal Reserve Board has similar
authority with respect to BNY Mellon and our non-bank subsidiaries. In   
   
 addition, the NYSBD also has similar authority with respect to our New York chartered banks, including The Bank of New York.       Deposit Insurance       Substantially all deposits of our bank
subsidiaries are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. Effective Jan. 1, 2007, the FDIC adopted a new risk-based insurance
assessment system designed to tie what banks pay for deposit insurance more closely to the risks they pose. The FDIC also adopted a new base schedule of rates that the FDIC can adjust up or down, depending on the needs of the DIF, and set initial
premiums for 2007 that range from $.05 per $100 of domestic deposits in the lowest risk category to $.43 per $100 of domestic deposits for banks in the highest risk category. For 2007, our bank subsidiaries were assessed approximately 5
basis points (that is, one one-hundredth of 1%) per $100 of domestic deposits. An FDIC credit available to our bank subsidiaries for prior contributions offset the entire assessment for 2007 and will offset some of the assessment for 2008 and
2009. Significant increases in the insurance assessments of our bank subsidiaries will increase our costs once the credit is fully utilized or otherwise disposed of.      In addition, the Deposit Insurance Fund Act of 1996 authorizes the Financing Corporation ( FICO ) to impose assessments on DIF assessable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO s bond
obligations. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance under the FDIC s risk-related assessment rate schedule. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to
reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annual assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $0.0114 per $100 of domestic deposits and remains $0.0114 for the first quarter of 2008.      Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe
or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank s federal regulatory agency.   
       
   6  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
     Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions and Related Matters       The FDI Act contains a  cross-guarantee  provision that could
result in any insured depository institution owned by BNY Mellon being assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other insured depository institution owned by BNY Mellon. Also, under
the BHC Act and Federal Reserve Board policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of our bank subsidiaries and to commit resources to support each such bank in circumstances where such bank might not be in
a financial position to support itself.      Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its bank subsidiaries are subordinate in right of payment to
deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such bank subsidiaries. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary
bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.      In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a
national bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank s shareholders,  pro rata , and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any
shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.       Regulatory Capital       The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have substantially similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are intended
to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.      The
risk-based capital ratio is determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet financial instruments into weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for those categories perceived as representing greater risk.
Under the capital guidelines, a banking organization s total capital is divided into tiers.   
     Tier I capital  consists of (1) common equity, (2) qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, (3) for bank holding companies but not
banks, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock and (4) minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including, for bank holding companies but not banks, trust-preferred securities), less
goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Not more than 25% of qualifying Tier I capital may consist of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust-preferred securities and other so-called  restricted core capital elements. 
   Tier II capital  consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, a limited amount of subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier I capital, a limited
amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses and a limited amount of unrealized gains on equity securities.    Tier III capital  consists of qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. The sum of Tier II and Tier III
capital may not exceed the amount of Tier I capital.      The risk-based capital guidelines include capital charges for equity investments in nonfinancial
companies. The guidelines require a series of marginal capital charges on covered equity investments that increase with the level of those investments as a percentage of Tier I capital. With certain exceptions, including investments
grandfathered under the guidelines, the guidelines require that BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries deduct from Tier I capital the appropriate percentage set out below:       

Aggregate Carrying Value     of Covered Nonfinancial     Equity Investments as a     Percentage of Tier I Capital   
     
    Required Deduction From     Tier I Capital as a     Percentage of the Carrying     Value of the Investments    
 
   15%  
     
  8%   
 
                  15% but  25  
     
  12%   
 
     25%  
     
  25%   
    The risk-based capital requirements identify concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from
non-traditional activities, and the management of those risks, as important factors to consider in assessing an institution s overall capital adequacy. In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in
foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  7   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 calculated by using the banking organizations  own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators.      Under the risk-based capital guidelines applicable to BNY Mellon and its domestic bank subsidiaries, the required minimum ratio of  Total capital  (the sum of
Tier I, Tier II and Tier III capital) to risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets is
4%. At Dec. 31, 2007, BNY Mellon s Total capital and Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 13.25% and 9.32%, respectively.      The U.S.
federal bank regulatory agencies  risk capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). The Basel Committee issued, in June 2004, and updated in November
2005, a revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known as the New Accord ( New Accord  or  Basel II ) that would set capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for credit risk.
     In the United States, U.S. regulators are mandating the adoption of the New Accord for  core  banks. The Bank of New York Mellon is a
 core  bank. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for operational risk. The U.S.
regulatory agencies published, on Dec. 7, 2007, the U.S. Basel II final rule in the Federal Register. The final rule becomes effective April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2008 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel run and
2009 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods.      In the U.S., we are currently working towards
implementing Basel II, A-IRB and AMA approaches within the required deadlines. We began implementing the Basel II standardized approach at our foreign subsidiaries as of Jan. 1, 2008. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international
regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II implementation process.      We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices and
that using the advanced approaches, given our portfolio, could result in a   
   
 reduction of risk-weighted assets notwithstanding the leverage ratio requirement.      The Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to comply with minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a bank holding company s Tier I capital to its total
consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The guidelines require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have
the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not
advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2007, our leverage ratio was 6.53%.      The Federal Reserve Board s
capital guidelines provide that banking organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on
intangible assets. Also, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a  tangible Tier I leverage ratio  in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier I leverage ratio is the
ratio of a banking organization s Tier I capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).       Prompt Corrective Action
      The FDI Act requires federal banking regulators to take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum
capital requirements. The FDI Act identifies the following capital tiers for financial institutions: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized.      Rules adopted by the federal banking agencies provide that an institution is deemed to be  well capitalized  if the banking institution has a Total risk-based
capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action
directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure;  adequately capitalized  if the institution   
       
   8  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)                 
   
 has a Total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% or greater, and a Leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater
(or a Leverage ratio of 3.0% or greater if the institution is rated composite 1 in its most recent report of examination, subject to appropriate Federal banking agency guidelines), and the institution does not meet the definition of a well
capitalized institution;  undercapitalized  if the institution has a Total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0% or a Leverage ratio that is less than 4.0% (or a
Leverage ratio that is less than 3.0% if the institution is rated composite 1 in its most recent report of examination, subject to appropriate Federal banking agency guidelines) and the institution does not meet the definition of a
significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized institution;  significantly undercapitalized  if the institution has a Total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0%, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio that is less
than 3.0%, or a leverage ratio that is less than 3.0% and the institution does not meet the definition of a critically undercapitalized institution; and  critically undercapitalized  if the institution has a ratio of tangible equity to
total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.   
  At Dec. 31, 2007, all of our bank subsidiaries were well capitalized based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank s capital category, however, is
determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank s overall financial condition or prospects.      The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well capitalized insured depository institution as adequately capitalized. The FDI
Act provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the institution to be engaging in
an unsafe or unsound practice.      The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply
with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category   
    (but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information other than the capital levels of the
institution.       Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act       A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  USA Patriot Act ) substantially broadened the
scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury
Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser
subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and
report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking
relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences
for the institution.       Depositor Preference Statute       Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution,
including federal funds and letters of credit, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution by any receiver.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  9   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)           
     Privacy       The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from
disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to  opt out  of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act
restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.       Community Reinvestment Act       The Community Reinvestment Act requires banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals and
geographies. Should BNY Mellon or its bank subsidiaries fail to adequately serve these communities, potential penalties could be imposed, including regulatory denials to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, expand into new
financial activities and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.       Legislative Initiatives       Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted,
would have upon our financial condition or operations.       Acquisitions       Federal and state laws impose approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for
the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding company. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger
applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors,
including the applicant s record under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to         
    informal approval by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or other regulatory authority.        Competition        The Bank of New York Mellon and its subsidiaries are subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management
business segments experience competition from asset management firms; hedge funds; investment banking companies; bank and financial holding companies; banks, including trust banks; brokerage firms; and insurance companies. These firms/companies can
be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Clearing and Execution and Treasury Services business segments compete with domestic and foreign banks offering institutional trust and custody products and cash management products
and a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer and capture services for institutional and retail customers.      Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies and banks, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described
under the  Supervision and Regulation  section and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over The Bank of New York Mellon and its subsidiaries in certain respects.      As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and,
for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to this. See Item 1A,  Risk
Factors   Competition  below, which is incorporated into this Item by reference.        Employees        At Dec. 31, 2007, The Bank of New York Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 42,100 employees.   
       
   10  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
      Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding          Companies        The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Industry Guide 3 (together  Guide 3 ) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual
reports on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.       

I.  
  Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the
Annual Report in  Consolidated Balance Sheet -- Average Balances and Interest Yields/Rates  and in  Supplemental information - Rate/Volume Analysis.  Required information is also presented in  Net Interest Revenue ,
which portions are incorporated herein by reference.        II.    Securities Portfolio      A.    Carrying Values of Securities      Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which note is incorporated herein by reference.      B.    Maturity Distribution of Securities      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is
presented in the Annual Report in the  Investment Securities  section and in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference.      III.    Loan Portfolio      A.    Types
of Loans      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the  Loans  section in the Annual Report. Further information is
included in the  Risk Management  section in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      B.    Risk Elements      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the  Risk Management 
section in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.         
    IV.    Summary of Loan Loss Experience
     Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses 
section, which is incorporated herein by reference, and below.      When losses on specific loans are identified, management charges off the portion deemed
uncollectible. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses  section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.
     Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management's judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure,
and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report  Credit Risk  section, the  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses  section, in  Critical Accounting Estimates,  in Note 1 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Reserve for Loan Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments , and in Note 8, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      V.    Deposits      Information required by this section of
Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in  Deposits  and in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet -- Average Balances and Interest Yields/Rates , which are incorporated herein by reference.      VI.    Return on Equity and Assets      Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in  Financial Summary , which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      VII.    Short-Term Borrowings      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in
 Other Borrowings , which is incorporated herein by reference.      VIII.    Replacement Capital Covenant      On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the  RCC ) in connection with the issuance by Mellon of  200,050,000
aggregate principal amount of   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  11   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 Mellon s 6.369% junior subordinated debentures (the  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities ) to Mellon Capital III (the  Trust )
and the issuance by the Trust of  200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Trust s 6.369% preferred securities (the  Preferred Securities ). We refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities
collectively as the  Securities.  Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon s obligations under the RCC.      BNY Mellon agreed in the
RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered Debt  in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:       

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless      

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital guidelines
applicable to bank holding companies, and      

the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds
that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally described,
based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and

BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to
capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds      

raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.         The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K is BNY
Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have Cusip No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018,
will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and
after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set
forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The
RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.      The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth
above is qualified by reference to its full text.      On June 19, 2007, Mellon entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the  2007 RCC ) in
connection with the issuance by Mellon of $500,100,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon s 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes (the  Junior Notes ) to Mellon Capital IV (the  2007 Trust ) and the issuance by the 2007 Trust
of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or  Normal PCS  (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the  PCS ), having a stated amount
of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate. Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon s obligation under the 2007 RCC.   

12  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
    BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered Debt  in the 2007 RCC, that on or before the  Stock
Purchase Date , as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before a date ten years after the Stock Purchase Date, with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock issuable pursuant
to the terms of the PCS (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the  2007 Securities ):       

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless      

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital guidelines
applicable to bank holding companies and      

the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its
subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are
expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.         The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon s 5.50%
subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have Cusip No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered
Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after
giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth
in the 2007         
    RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the
eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt
benefiting from the 2007 RCC.      The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20,
2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.       
  ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS       Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common
stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors,
besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document
are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents
or statements that make reference to this report. See  Forward-Looking Statements.         Business Combination Risks          We may not realize the expected financial benefits from the merger between The Bank of New York Co. and Mellon.        We conduct the combined businesses previously conducted by The Bank of New York Co. and Mellon. These businesses were combined in a merger which was consummated on
July 1, 2007. Achieving the expected benefits of the combination of these businesses will require us to retain clients of both of the predecessor businesses, retain key employees of both of the predecessor businesses and capitalize upon certain
revenue synergies. Failure to accomplish these goals could adversely affect our business. In addition, the success of the combination of these businesses will depend in part   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  13   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 on our ability to realize certain cost savings. If we are not able to do so, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all
or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the processes of integration of the predecessor businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of the predecessor businesses or inconsistencies in technologies,
standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination and could reduce our
earnings. The integration of the predecessor businesses will require a significant commitment of time and resources by our management and other personnel, which could divert the attention of management from other tasks.        We may not realize the expected financial benefits from the acquisition of the corporate trust business of JP Morgan Chase   Co.    (   the
 Acquired Corporate Trust Business ).        We purchased the Acquired Corporate Trust Business on October 1, 2006. Achieving the expected
benefits of this acquisition will require us to retain a substantial portion of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business s client base, increase the revenue growth rate of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, retain key employees of the Acquired
Corporate Trust Business and realize certain anticipated cost savings. If we are unable to integrate the Acquired Corporate Trust Business successfully, then we may fail to realize the anticipated synergies and growth opportunities or achieve the
cost savings and revenue growth we expect from the acquisition.        Other acquisitions also pose integration risks.        From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each of these poses
integration challenges similar to those described above. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully
integrated.         
      Risks Related to Our Business          Global Trends Our business
could be adversely affected if current global trends do not continue or if global business and economic conditions weaken.        Our businesses benefit
from certain global trends, such as the growth of financial assets, creation of new securities, financial services industry consolidation, rapid technological change, globalization of investment activities, structural changes to financial markets
including consolidation, shortened settlement cycles, straight-through processing requirements, and increased demand for outsourcing. We believe that these long-term trends all tend to increase the demand for our products and services around the
world. If these trends do not continue, we may lose customers or lose revenue associated with products that may no longer be in demand which may adversely affect our revenue growth.      We expect that our businesses will benefit from worldwide pension reform that creates additional pools of assets that use custody and related services and investment management services. If the pace of pension reform
and resulting programs, including growth of public and private pension plans, slows down or if substantial pension reform does not occur, particularly in markets in which we are active, then our revenue growth may be adversely affected.   
  In addition, unexpected sustained weakness in business and economic conditions in any or all of the domestic or international financial markets in which we conduct
our business could have one or more of the following effects:       

negative trends in savings rates or in individuals  investment preferences causing customers to become risk adverse could result in decreased demand for
investment products or services that we offer;      

slowed or halted inflows to pension plans could decrease demand for custody and related services and investment management services;      

lower credit quality of our clients could result in increased credit costs and higher provision for credit losses;      

credit deterioration in investment securities held by us, rating agency downgrades for such securities or other market factors could result in us having to
recognize a non-temporary      
       
   14  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)                 

impairment in the value of such investment securities, with a corresponding charge against earnings; and      

disruptions in the fixed-income markets could result in a loss of liquidity for an asset-backed commercial paper conduit with which we have a liquidity facility,
which could result in such facility being drawn upon.           Competition We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our
business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.        Many businesses in which we operate are intensely
competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and
asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and
investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and
individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services.      Pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of
competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to
maintain or increase our profitability.      Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A
decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of
operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounting activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations.         
    Our ability to successfully
compete for business depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies. Rapid technological change in the financial
services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices. We cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending
will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.   
    Dependence on fee-based business We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be
adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.        Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional interest-generating products and services. We have
redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock
transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.      Fees for many of our products and services are based on the
volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity,
new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.      Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding
scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant
declines in the values of capital assets would reduce   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  15   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore
would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would
also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If
there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.
       Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.
       The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange
revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease
during times of decreased currency volatility.      Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in
cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as
currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.      The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange
revenue.        Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we
perform.     
    We provide custody,
accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash
management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in a
manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure may
result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.        Interest Rate Environment Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.        Our net
interest income and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes, changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets and changes in customer credit quality, over which we have no control. Our net interest income is the difference between the
interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We
also earn net interest income on interest-free funds we hold.      As a result of changes in interest rates, we may experience one or more of the following
effects:   

changes in net interest income depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under  Asset/Liability Management  elsewhere
in this report;      

reduced credit demand due to sustained higher interest rates;      

an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates,
including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;      

increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions;      

16  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)                 

sustained lower interest rates, which may reduce the spread we earn on deposits;      

a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and      

decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.         A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the Risk Management section of the Annual Report.        Capital Adequacy We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.
       Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet
guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement
changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If BNY Mellon, its subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be
materially and adversely affected. The regulatory accords on international banking institutions to be reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and implemented by the Federal Reserve may require us and our subsidiary banks to satisfy
additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, the regulatory accords or implementing regulations. Failure by our principal subsidiary banks and broker-dealer subsidiaries to
maintain their status as  well capitalized  and  well managed,  if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a financial holding company and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also
compromising our competitive position. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a wide range of financial activities, insurance, merchant banking and real estate investment that are not permissible for other bank holding companies and
are also eligible for a streamlined review process for proposed acquisitions. See  Supervision and Regulation  above and  Capital Capital Framework  and  Capital Capital Adequacy  in the Annual Report, which
portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.         
      Access to Capital Markets If our ability to access
the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.        Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully
the capital markets on a regular basis. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our
consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or an adverse change in our credit ratings, or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our
access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan.        We
are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision by non-U.S. jurisdictions.        We operate in a
highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil
money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no
assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their
interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See  Supervision and
Regulation  above. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and
systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  17   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and
trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.        Monetary and Other Governmental Policies Our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies.        The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased
sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and
may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results
in additional costs. See  Supervision and Regulation  above.        Operational Risk We are exposed to operational risk as a result of
providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.        We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing
various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the
internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the corporation or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide
for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could
still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also
includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which   
   
 could have an adverse effect on our reputation. See  Risk Management  in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated
herein by reference.        Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.        Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is
based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to
controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.        Our information systems
may experience an interruption or breach in security.        We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any
failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies, procedures and technical
safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur,
that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny,
or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See  Risk Management  in the Annual Report, which portion of the
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.   
       
   18  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
      Technology We depend on technology and our intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.        We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global
capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs
may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.      Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require
additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to
deliver these products and services to the market at a competitive price.      We use trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and
procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. Despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our
technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual
arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. If any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We may incur
substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. If a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise,
against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our   
    operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a
license from the third party.        Acts of Terrorism Acts of terrorism may have a negative impact on our business.        Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of
terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our
products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. The war in
Iraq, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us
in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict.        Reputational and Legal Risk Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity,
regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.        Adverse publicity
and damage to our reputation arising from our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies,
increasing regulatory scrutiny of  know your customer,  anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and
litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the
capital markets, result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys
general,   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  19   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. Such investigations also may be initiated by, and other
compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the United States, utilizing legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. See Item 3 of this Form 10-K.      On Nov. 7, 2005, one of our principal banking subsidiaries, The Bank of New York, entered into a Non-Prosecution Agreement with the United States Attorney s Offices
for the Eastern and Southern districts of New York, which imposed a number of remedial steps and programs in connection with The Bank of New York s anti-money laundering program. The agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and
enhance The Bank of New York s compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect for three years unless earlier terminated by the U.S. Attorney s Offices. Failure to comply with the agreement could result in
criminal prosecution for participation in alleged fraudulent activities and money laundering activities in 2002 and previously (in the case of the alleged fraudulent activities) and 1999 and previously (in the case of the alleged money laundering
activities). Such prosecution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.      On April 21, 2006,
The Bank of New York entered into a formal written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department, which imposed a number of reporting requirements and controls in connection with The Bank of New
York s anti-money laundering program. The agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance The Bank of New York s compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect until terminated by the banking
regulators. Failure to comply with the agreement could result in sanctions, money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.      On Aug. 17, 2006, one of our principal banking subsidiaries, Mellon Bank, N.A. ( Mellon Bank ), entered into a settlement agreement with the United States
Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania relating to an April 2001 incident in Mellon Bank s Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Under the terms of the settlement, Mellon Bank   
   
 agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement for a three-year period. No monetary penalties or fines were
imposed by the agreement although Mellon Bank reimbursed the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. If Mellon Bank complies with the terms of the agreement, the U.S. Attorney will not prosecute Mellon Bank. The
agreement should not impair Mellon Bank s ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor.        Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and
litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.        From time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action
pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the subsidiary s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not
resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products. In addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual
responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income distributions to foreign and domestic persons. In the event such withholding was to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by
appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability.        New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.
       From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are
substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant
time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.   
       
   20  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
      We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.        Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain
key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse
impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.        Tax Laws and Regulations Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of
operations and financial condition.        The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) have taken increasingly aggressive
positions against certain corporate investment programs that either reduce or defer taxes. The IRS has challenged certain types of structured transactions including leasing investments referred to as LILOs, in which we engaged prior to mid-1999, and
SILOs, in which we engaged prior to 2004. See Note 24 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which note is incorporated herein by reference.      We have also entered into investments that produce synthetic fuel from coal by-products. Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code provides a tax credit for these types of transactions. The amount of the credit is
dependent on the amount of synthetic fuel produced by these investments. The tax credits available under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code for the production and sale of synthetic fuel produced in any given year are phased out if the
reference price of a barrel of oil for that year rises above a specified, inflation-adjusted price range.      To manage the exposure to oil prices in 2007, we
entered into an oil-related option contract in January 2007. The synthetic fuel credit program terminated at the end of 2007. See the  Income Taxes  section in the Annual Report, which section is incorporated herein by reference.
     We believe we have adequate tax reserves to cover the potential tax exposures the IRS is likely to assess. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as
  
    events unfold, and adjustments to the
reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business.
     Going forward, we anticipate we will have fewer opportunities to participate in lease investing, tax credit programs and similar transactions that have
benefited us in the past. This may adversely impact our net interest income and effective tax rate. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.
       Accounting Principles Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.        From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the
preparation of our financial statements. These changes are very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these
changes may not have an economic impact on our business. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.        Credit Reserves We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.        We have credit exposure to the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, to monoline financial guaranty insurers, and to many other industries. We cannot
provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our
borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. We cannot provide any assurance that these
reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  21   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 credit losses, including loan reserves, are not      sufficient, we
would be required to record a larger loan reserve against current earnings.        Holding Company We are a holding company, and as a result, are
dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.
       We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries - The Bank of New York
and Mellon Bank, N.A. - and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our bank and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations,
including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these
banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or
other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See
 Supervision and Regulation  above and  Liquidity and Dividends  and  Capital Capital Framework  in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary
upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors (including, in the case of the banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a
creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to
all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.       

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS       None.       
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES       We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs. At a
number of the locations described below, we are not currently occupying all of the space under our control. Where commercially reasonable and to the extent it is not needed for future expansion, we have leased or subleased, or seek to lease or
sublease, this excess space. The following is a description of our principal properties, as of Dec. 31, 2007:       New York City principal properties    
  We own a 49-story office building located at One Wall Street that serves as our executive headquarters. We also own our 23-story operations center building located at
101 Barclay Street, and lease the land on which that building sits under a ground lease expiring in 2080. In addition, we lease approximately 372,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 200 Park Avenue and approximately
318,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 2 Hanson Place in Brooklyn.      The New York City properties are utilized by all of our business
segments.       Pittsburgh principal properties       We lease under a
long-term, triple net lease the entire 54-story office building known as One Mellon Center located at 500 Grant Street. In addition, we own a 42-story office building located at 525 William Penn Place and a 14-story office building located at
500 Ross Street.      The Pittsburgh properties are utilized by all of our business segments.       Boston area principal properties       We lease approximately 362,000 square feet of space in a Boston office building located at
One Boston Place, 201 Washington Street. We also lease under a triple net lease the entire 3-story office building located at 135 Santilli Highway in Everett, Massachusetts.   
       
   22  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART  I (continued)           
   
 The Boston properties are utilized by all of our business segments other than Issuer Services and Clearing and Execution Services.       New Jersey principal properties       We lease approximately 485,000 square feet of
space in an office building located at 95 Christopher Columbus Drive, Jersey City, New Jersey and approximately 260,000 square feet of space in an office building located at Newport Office Center VII, 480 Washington Boulevard, Jersey City, New
Jersey.      The New Jersey properties are primarily utilized by our Issuer Services and Clearing and Execution Services business segments.       United Kingdom Properties       We have a number of leased office locations in
London (including approximately 234,000 square feet of space at Mellon Financial Centre at 160-162 Queen Victoria Street and approximately 159,000 square feet of space at The Tower at One Canada Square at Canary Wharf), as well as other leased
office locations throughout the United Kingdom, including locations in Manchester, Poole, Leeds, Brentwood, Liverpool, Swindon and Edinburgh.      The UK
properties are utilized by all of our business segments.       Other properties       We also lease (and in a few instances own) office space and other facilities at numerous other locations both within and outside of the U.S., including properties located in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Massachusetts, Florida, Delaware, Texas, California, Illinois, Georgia, Washington, Colorado, the mid-south region of the U.S.; Brussels, Belgium; Dublin and Cork in Ireland; Luxembourg; Germany; Chennai and Pune in India; Singapore; Hong Kong and
Shanghai in China, and Tokyo, Japan.       
  ITEM 3. LEGAL AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS       In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are
routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and potential legal actions, including actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are asserted in certain of
these actions and proceedings. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement and the imposition of penalties and/or other remedial sanctions are possible. Due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such

matters, the Company cannot ascertain what the eventual outcome of these matters will be; however, on the basis of current knowledge and after consultation
with legal counsel, we do not believe that enforceable judgments or settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal actions or regulatory matters, either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves and
insurance coverage, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Company, although they could have a material effect on net income for a given period. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously
against all of the claims asserted in these legal actions.      As previously disclosed in the Company s Form 8-K dated May 17, 2007, the Federal
Customs Service of the Russian Federation is pursuing a claim against The Bank of New York ( BNY ), a subsidiary of the Company. The claim is based on allegations relating to the previously disclosed Russian funds transfer matter that was
the subject of the Company s Non-Prosecution Agreement described in Item 1A.,  Risk Factors  above, and alleges violations of U.S. law by failing to supervise and monitor funds transfer activities at BNY. This  lack of
action  is alleged to have resulted in underpayment to the Russian Federation of the value added taxes that were due to be paid by the customers of the bank s clients on certain goods imported into the country. The claim seeks
$22.5 billion in  direct and indirect  losses.      BNY has been defending itself vigorously in this matter and intends to continue to do so.
BNY believes it has meritorious procedural and substantive defenses to the allegations in the Russian courts and also believes it has meritorious defenses to an attempted enforcement of a judgment outside the Russian Federation in countries in which
BNY has material assets if a judgment were to be entered in this matter by the Russian courts.      In 2001 and 2002, we entered into various structured
transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of U.K. corporate income taxes that were credited against our U.S. corporate income tax liability. The IRS continues to review these transactions and it is likely that some or all of the

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  23   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
   
 credits will be challenged upon completion of the review.      On
Oct. 9, 2007, we received a letter from the IRS informing us that the IRS is considering designating one such transaction for litigation. At this time, it is unknown if the transaction will ultimately be designated for litigation, but, if so
designated, we are prepared to defend our position and we believe that any tax benefits associated with these transactions were consistent with the applicable statutory, judicial and administrative authority existing at the time they were entered
into.      BNY filed a proof of claim on January 18, 2008 in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ), seeking to
recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at BNY. At the time of the bankruptcy, the cash and securities collateral for the loan were valued at over $600 million.
The Chapter 11 Trustee for Sentinel recently indicated that he is prepared to file an adversary proceeding against BNY seeking to disallow BNY s claim and asserting a claim for damages against BNY under a variety of theories including that BNY
aided and abetted certain insiders of Sentinel in misappropriating customer assets and improperly using those assets as collateral for the loan. In January 2008 BNY learned that the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC )
opened an investigation that includes a review of Sentinel's relationship with BNY. While the timing and outcome of the bankruptcy is uncertain, the Company intends to vigorously pursue its claim.      As previously disclosed in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
( SEC ) is investigating the trading activities of Pershing Trading Company LP, a floor specialist, on two regional exchanges from 1999 to 2004. Because the conduct at issue is alleged to have occurred largely during the period when
Pershing was owned by Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc. ( CSFB ), the Company has made claims for indemnification against CSFB relating to this matter under the agreement relating to the acquisition of Pershing. CSFB is disputing
these claims for indemnification.      The Company previously disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, that the SEC
was investigating the appropriateness of certain expenditures made in connection with marketing and distribution of the Hamilton Funds. The Company was informed by the SEC Staff on Sept. 11, 2007 that they had         
    concluded their investigation and that no enforcement action was recommended.      The Company previously disclosed in its
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 that the SEC was investigating possible market-timing transactions cleared by Pershing LLC. The Company was informed by the SEC Staff orally that they had concluded their
investigation and that no enforcement action was recommended.      As previously reported in a Current Report filed by Mellon on Form 8-K dated Sept. 30, 2005,
Mellon Investor Services LLC ( MIS ) received a  Wells Notice  from the SEC relating to MIS  disclosure practices to its transfer agency (issuer) clients during the period 2001 through late 2004 concerning the receipt of
fees from a search firm that performs in-depth searches for  lost  shareholders. The Company was informed by the SEC Staff on Aug. 16, 2007 that they had concluded their investigation and that no enforcement action was recommended.
     In connection with the acquired JPMorgan Chase corporate trust business, BNY was required to file various IRS information and withholding tax returns for
2006. In preparing to do so, BNY identified certain inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation and records transferred to BNY that were needed to file accurate returns. The Company and JPMorgan Chase jointly disclosed this matter to the IRS
on a voluntary basis in a meeting on Sept. 7, 2007 and the Company believes it will receive additional time to remediate the issues. The Company and JPMorgan Chase are attempting to resolve the information reporting and withholding issues presented.
While there can be no assurance, the Company believes that after remediation the potential financial exposure will be immaterial, and, in any event, BNY is indemnified by JPMorgan Chase for the 2006 tax withholding and reporting obligations
associated with the acquisition.       
  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS       No matters were submitted to security holders for vote during
the fourth quarter of 2007.   
       
   24  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART I  (continued)                 
    
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       Information with respect to executive officers of The Bank of New York Mellon is set
forth on pages 29 through 31 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated in Part I by reference.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  25   

Table of Contents  

PART II            
     
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       The information required by this Item is set forth in  Capital ,  Liquidity and Dividends ,  Selected Quarterly Data  and Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which portions are
incorporated herein by reference. The Bank of New York Mellon s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol BK. BNY Capital IV 6.875% Preferred Trust Securities Series E (symbol BKPrE) and BNY Capital V 5.95%
Preferred Trust Securities Series F (symbol BKPrF) are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.      On November 23, 2007, BNY Mellon issued an
aggregate of 818,164 shares of its common stock in reliance upon the exemption from securities registration provided in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. The shares were issued to a sophisticated purchaser, in settlement of BNY
Mellon s obligations in the amount of approximately $37.6 million under an agreement previously entered into with such entity by The Bank of New York Co., which was assumed by BNY Mellon pursuant to the merger of The Bank of New York Co. with
and into BNY Mellon, under which The Bank of New York Co. purchased outstanding shares of its common stock from such entity. The shares were registered for resale by such entity.       
  ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA       The information required by this Item is set forth in the following portions
of the Annual Report:  Financial Summary ,  Summary of Financial Results ,   Net Interest Revenue Consolidated Balance Sheet -- Average Balances and Interest Yields/Rates , Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       
  ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       The
information required by this Item is set forth in the following portions of the Annual Report:  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.         
     
  ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK       The information required by this Item is
set forth in  Asset/liability management ,  Risk Management Trading activities and risk management ,  Off-balance sheet arrangements , Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Derivative
financial instruments  and Note 24 and Note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       
  ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA       Reference is made to Item 15 on page 33 hereof
for a detailed listing of the items under Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, and Other Financial Data, which are incorporated herein by reference.       
  ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       None.       
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES        Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of the Disclosure Committee, has responsibility for
ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our SEC reports is timely
recorded, processed, summarized and reported. In addition, our ethics hotline can also be used by employees and others for the anonymous communication of concerns about financial controls or reporting matters. There are inherent limitations to the
effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure   

26  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART II       (continued)                      
   
 controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.      As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.       Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       In the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. There have not been any
changes in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) during the fourth quarter of 2007 that have materially affected, or are reasonably         
    likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting, except changes resulting from the merger with Mellon being implemented to incorporate Mellon s operations with The Bank of New York
Co. s systems of internal control.       Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm       See  Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm  on pages 77 and 78 of the Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.   
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  27   

Table of Contents  

PART III            
     
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE       The information required by this Item is included in The
Bank of New York Mellon s proxy statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the  2008 Proxy Statement ) in the following sections: Election of Directors--Nominees for Election as Directors, Board Meetings and Board
Committee Information--Audit and Examining Committee and -- Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Director Nominations, Corporate Governance Matters, Executive Compensation--Narrative Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and Grants
of Plan-Based Awards Table--Employment Agreements and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, each of which sections is incorporated herein by reference, and in the  Executive Officers of the Registrant  section
below.       CODE OF ETHICS       We have adopted a code of
ethics which we refer to as our Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries, including our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer (principal financial
officer) and Controller (principal accounting officer), as well as to directors of BNY Mellon. The Code of Conduct is posted on our website  http://www.bnymellon.com  under  Investor Relations, Corporate Governance, Ethics  and is
also available in print, without charge, to any shareholder who requests it. Requests should be sent to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Office of the Secretary, One Wall Street, NY, NY 10286. We intend to disclose on our website any
amendments to or waiver of the Code of Conduct relating to executive officers (including the officers specified above) or our directors.   

28  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART III       (continued)                      
     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT        The name and age of, and positions and offices held by, each executive officer of BNY Mellon as of February 27, 2008, together with the offices held by each such person during the last five years, are listed
below and on the following two pages. Each of the named persons was appointed as an executive officer of BNY Mellon effective July 1, 2007 in connection with the closing of the merger of The Bank of New York Co. and Mellon. All executive
officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. No executive officer has a family relationship to any other executive officer.       
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  29   

Table of Contents  

PART III       (continued)                      

(1)  
  Mr. Renyi also serves as the Executive Chairman of The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Renyi served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since at least 2002.         

(2)  
  Mr. Kelly also serves as the Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Kelly served as Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since February 2006. From prior to 2002 to January 2006, Mr. Kelly was Chief Financial Officer of Wachovia Corporation and its predecessor, First Union Corporation.

(3)  
  Mr. Hassell also serves as the President of The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hassell served as President of The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since at least 2002.         

(4)  
  Mr. Elliott also serves as Senior Vice Chairman of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Elliott served as Senior Vice Chairman of Mellon Financial Corporation and
Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2002.         

(5)  
  Mr. Monks also serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Administrative Officer of The Bank of New York and as Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. He served as Senior Executive Vice
President from at least 2002 to 2005.         

(6)  
  Mr. Van Saun also serves as the Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Van Saun served as Vice Chairman of The Bank
of New York Company, Inc. since November 2005. He served as Chief Financial Officer from at least 2002 to September 2006 of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York. He also served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of
New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York from at least 2002 to 2005.         

(7)  
  Mr. O Hanley also serves as Vice Chairman of Mellon Bank, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York. Prior to the merger, Mr. O Hanley served as Vice
Chairman of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2002.         

(8)  
  Mr. Lamere also serves as Vice Chairman of Mellon Bank, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York. Prior to the merger, Mr. Lamere served as Vice Chairman of Mellon
Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2002.         

(9)  
  Mr. Palermo also serves as Vice Chairman of Mellon Bank, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York. Prior to the merger, Mr. Palermo served as Vice Chairman of
Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since 2002.         

(10)  
  Mr. Keaney also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Keaney served as Senior
Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from October 2003 to May 2006 and as Managing Director from at least 2002 to October 2003.         

(11)  
  Mr. Gibbons also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of the Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Gibbons served as Senior
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. since Sept. 2006. Prior to the merger, he also served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since April 2005 and as Chief Financial
Officer from September 2006 until June 2007. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2002 to 2005.           
   30  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

PART III       (continued)                      

(12)  
  Mr. Breuckner also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Breuckner served as Senior
Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006 and as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC since at least 2002.         

(13)  
  Mr. Rogan also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Rogan served as Senior
Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since November 2005. He served as Executive Vice President from at least 2002 to 2005.         

(14)  
  Ms. Peetz also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of the Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peetz served as Senior
Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. She served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from June 2003 to May 2006 and as Senior Vice President from at least 2002 to June 2003.         

(15)  
  Mr. Woetzel also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of the Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Woetzel served as Senior
Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2002 to May 2006.         

(16)  
  Mr. Krasik also serves as General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Krasik served as General Counsel
and Secretary of Mellon Financial Corporation and General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Mellon Bank, N.A. since July 2006. He served as Associate General Counsel and Secretary of Mellon Financial Corporation and Associate General Counsel and
Assistant Secretary of Mellon Bank, N.A. from at least 2002 to July 2006.         

(17)  
  Ms. Peters also serves as Executive Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peters served as an Executive
Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2002.         

(18)  
  Mr. Little also serves as Senior Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. and Vice President of The Bank of New York. Prior to the merger, Mr. Little served as Senior Vice
President of Mellon Bank, N.A., as President of Mellon International Investment Corporation since at least 2002 and has been Chairman of The Dreyfus Corporation since December 2006.         

(19)  
  Mr. Berntsen also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York and Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Berntsen served as Senior
Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from April 2004 to May 2006, as President of BNY Capital Markets, Inc. from January 2003 to April 2004, and as Managing
Director of BNY Capital Markets, Inc. from at least 2002 to January 2003.         

(20)  
  Mr. Hughey also serves as the Controller of The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hughey served as Controller and Senior Vice President of
Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2002.           
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  31   

Table of Contents  

PART III       (continued)                
     
  ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION       The information required by this Item is included in the following sections
of the 2008 Proxy Statement: Director Compensation, Executive Compensation, Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Board Meetings and Board Committee Information -- Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, and the Report of the
Human Resources and Compensation Committee, which are incorporated herein by reference. The information incorporated herein by reference to the Human Resources and Compensation Committee Report is deemed furnished hereunder.       
  ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       The
information required by this Item is included in the following sections of the 2008 Proxy Statement: Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Holders of 5% or More of Outstanding Stock, Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Directors and Executive Officers,
and Equity Compensation Plans Table, which are incorporated herein by reference.         
     
  ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE       The information required
by this Item is included in the following sections of the 2008 Proxy Statement: Corporate Governance Matters--Director Independence and--Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy, which are incorporated herein by reference.
      
  ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES       The information required by this Item is included in the
following sections of the 2008 Proxy Statement: Audit Fees, Audit Related Fees, Tax Fees and All Other Fees, and Ratification of the Selection of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, which are incorporated herein by reference.

32  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        
       
  ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES        

(a)  
  The financial statements and schedules required for this Form 10-K are included, attached or incorporated by reference as indicated in the following index. Page numbers refer
to pages of the Annual Report.         

(1)     Financial Statements   
      
   Page No.   

Consolidated Income Statement  
      
  79 and 80  

Consolidated Balance Sheet  
      
  81  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
      
  82  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity  
      
  83  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
      
  84 through 121  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
      
  122  

(2)     Financial Statement
Schedules            The following is attached as a Financial Statement
Schedule.          Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm          The Board of Directors and Shareholders     of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.         We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income,
changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2006. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.         We conducted our audits in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.         In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Bank of New York Company,
Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2006, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.         As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, The Bank
of New York Company, Inc. changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other post retirement plans as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 158,  Employers  Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post Retirement Plans .         /s/ Ernst   Young
LLP         New York, New York     February 21, 2007   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  
 33

Table of Contents  

    PART IV       (continued)                      ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES - Continued       (3)     Exhibits       See (b) below.       

(b)  
  The exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits on pages 36 through 56 hereof are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this Item.

(c)  
   Other Financial Data          
    
 34
  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Corporation has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation        
 
  By:        
     
            /s/ Robert P. Kelly    

Robert P. Kelly   

Chief Executive Officer   
 
        DATED: February 28, 2008    
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Corporation and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

Signature             

Capacities                 

By:  
     
            /s/ Robert P.
Kelly                             

Director and Principal  

Robert P. Kelly  

Executive Officer  

Chief Executive Officer       

By:  
     
            /s/ Bruce W. Van
Saun                      

Principal Financial Officer  

Bruce W. Van Saun  

Vice Chairman and  

Chief Financial Officer       

By:  
     
            /s/ Michael K.
Hughey                      

Principal Accounting Officer  

Michael K. Hughey  

Controller       

Frank J. Biondi Jr.; Ruth E. Bruch;     Nicholas
M. Donofrio; Steven G. Elliott;     Gerald L. Hassell; Edmund F. Kelly;     Richard J. Kogan; Michael J. Kowalski;     John A. Luke Jr.; Robert Mehrabian;     Mark A. Nordenberg; Catherine A. Rein;     Thomas A. Renyi; William C. Richardson;     Samuel C. Scott III; John P. Surma;     and Wesley W. von Schack               

Directors  

By:  
     
            /s/ Carl
Krasik                                   

DATED: February 28, 2008  

Carl Krasik  

Attorney-in-fact  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  
 35

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS               Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, BNY Mellon has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K. These agreements may contain
representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party
or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in BNY Mellon s public disclosure,
(iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not
describe BNY Mellon s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.           

Exhibit No.   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing        

2.1  
     
  Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated as of February 23, 2007, and as further amended and restated as of
March 30, 2007, between The Bank of New York Company, Inc., Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ).  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710 and File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on
July 2, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.    

3.1  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710 and File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on July
2, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.    

3.2  
     
  Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as amended and restated on July 10, 2007.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-52710) for the period ended June 30, 2007, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

4.1  
     
  None of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company represent long-term debt in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Company. The Company hereby agrees to
furnish to the Commission, upon request, a copy of any such instrument.  
      
    N/A    

10.1*  
     
  Trust Agreement dated November 16, 1993 ( Trust Agreement ) related to certain executive compensation plans and agreements.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10(m) to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-06152) for the year ended December 31,
1993, and incorporated herein by reference.    
        *  Management contract or
compensatory plan arrangement.      
 36
  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  37   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   38  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  39   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

        *  Management contract or
compensatory plan arrangement.         
   40  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  41   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   42  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  43   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   44  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *   Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  45   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   46  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  47   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit No.   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of
Filing            

10.81*  
     
  Form of Change in Control Severance Agreement between Mellon Financial Corporation and members of what was previously referred to as the Senior Management Committee of Mellon Financial
Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10.20 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31, 2000,
and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.82**  
     
  Mellon Financial Corporation ShareSuccess Plan, as amended, effective May 21, 2002.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-07410) for the quarter ended June 30,
2002, and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.83*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Long- Term Profit Incentive Plan, Type I Stock Option Agreement.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-07410) for the quarter ended September 30,
2004, and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.84*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Corporate Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.85*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Asset Management Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.86*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Asset Management Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.3 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.87*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Mellon Institutional Asset Management Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.4 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    
    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.      **  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which the Corporation s Common Stock may be issued to employees of the Corporation. No executive
officers or directors of the Corporation are permitted to participate in this plan.         
   48  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit No.   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of
Filing            

10.88*  
     
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Deferred Share Award Agreement (Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock)   Corporate Performance Goals.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.7 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.89*  
     
  Form of Type I Stock Option Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.8 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.90*  
     
  Form of Option Agreement for Directors of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10.35 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31, 2004,
and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.91*  
     
  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.92*  
     
  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.93*  
     
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Item 1.01(1) to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated February 15, 2005, and incorporated
herein by reference.    

10.94*  
     
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
    Previously filed as Item 1.01(1) to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and
incorporated herein by reference.    
    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  49   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   50  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  51   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   52  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

    *  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.         
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  53   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

54  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit No.   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing        

10.132  
     
  Amended and Restated Purchase   Assumption Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2006 by and between The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase   Co.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-06152) for the quarter ended
September 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.133  
     
  Lease dated as of December 31, 2004, between 500 Grant Street Associates Limited Partnership and Mellon Bank, N.A. with respect to One Mellon Center.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31,
2004, and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.134  
     
  Non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorney s Offices for the Eastern and Southern Districts of New York.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on
November 8, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.    

10.135  
     
  Letter from the United States Attorney, Western District of Pennsylvania, dated August 14, 2006, addressed to W. Thomas McGough, Jr., Esq., Efrem Grail, Esq., and Michael Bleier, Esq., setting
forth the Settlement Agreement between the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania and Mellon Bank, N.A., signed on behalf of Mellon Bank, N.A. on August 17, 2006.  
      
    Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated August 18, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.    

12.1  
     
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

13.1  
     
  All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference. The remaining portions are furnished for the information of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not  filed  as part of this filing.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

21.1  
     
  Primary subsidiaries of the Corporation.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

23.1  
     
  Consent of KPMG LLP.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

23.2  
     
  Consent of Ernst   Young LLP.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

24.1  
     
  Powers of Attorney.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

31.1  
     
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Filed herewith.    

31.2  
     
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Filed herewith.    
       
   THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  55   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS (continued)              

Exhibit No.   
     
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

32.1  
     
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Furnished herewith.    

32.2  
     
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
    Furnished herewith.    
       
   56  THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON   

<EX-10.20>
 2
 dex1020.htm
 AMENDMENT NO. 19 TO THE TRUST AGREEMENT

Amendment No. 19 to the Trust Agreement 

Exhibit 10.20       AMENDMENT NUMBER NINETEEN      TO      GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT      THIS AGREEMENT, made as of the 31st day of July, 2007 by and between THE BANK OF
NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION (successor in interest to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ), and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK
(formerly known as THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the New York (hereinafter referred to as the  Trustee ).      W I T N E S S E T H :      WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee entered into a Grantor Trust Agreement dated as
of November 16, 1993 (as amended from time to time, the  Agreement       WHEREAS, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. merged
into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation on July 1, 2007 pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated December 3, 2006, as amended and restated as of February 23, 2007, by and among The Bank of New York Company, Inc., Mellon
Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation;      WHEREAS, Article TWELFTH of the Agreement provides that the Company may
amend the Agreement; and      WHEREAS, the Company desires to amend the Agreement;      NOW, THEREFORE, the Company and the Trustee agree as follows, effective July 31, 2007:      1. The Agreement shall be amended by deleting each reference to  The Bank of New York Company, Inc.  therein and substituting therefor a
reference to  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation  provided that each reference to  The Bank of New York Company, Inc.  as it appears in Exhibit I to the Agreement shall remain a reference to  The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. .      2. The Preamble to the Agreement shall be amended by deleting the phrase  State of New York  as it first
appears in the first paragraph of the Preamble and substituting therefor the phrase  State of Delaware .      3. The Agreement shall
be amended by deleting Exhibit I in its entirety and substituting therefor Exhibit I in the form attached hereto.         

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be executed in their respective
names by their duly authorized officers under their corporate seals as of the day and year first above written.       

ATTEST:   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

/s/ Patricia A. Bicket   

By:  
     
    /s/ Bruce Van Saun    

Name:  
     
  Bruce Van Saun   

Title:  
     
  Chief Financial Officer   

ATTEST:   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK   

/s/ Thomas Verley   

By:  
     
    /s/ Mark Pensec    
 
    Name:   
     
  Thomas Verley  

Name:  
     
  Mark Pensec   
 
    Title:   
     
  Vice President  

Title:  
     
  Vice President   
       
   2   

EXHIBIT I        

1.  
  The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Excess Benefit Plan         

2.  
  The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan         

3.  
  Severance Agreements between The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and the following persons:         

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.71>
 3
 dex1071.htm
 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR DIRECTORS

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors 

Exhibit 10.71        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        FOR DIRECTORS        Effective
January 1, 2008          

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        FOR DIRECTORS       Effective January 1, 2008       TABLE OF
CONTENTS        
       
   i   

ii   

iii   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN        FOR DIRECTORS       Effective January 1, 2008       PREAMBLE
      The purpose of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan For Directors (the  Plan ) is to offer each non-employee
member of the Board of Directors of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ) the opportunity to defer receipt of compensation to be earned for service in such capacity and to accumulate supplemental funds for retirement,
special needs prior to retirement, or death. The Plan is effective for deferrals received from eligible Directors of the Company after December 31, 2007. It is the intention of the Company that the Plan be operated in compliance with the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( AJCA ) and Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.      The Corporate Benefits Committee of the Company
( Committee  or  CBC ) or a successor committee designated by the Board shall be the administrator responsible for administering the Plan in accordance with its terms but such designation of the Committee shall not be construed,
directly or indirectly, as evidencing any intent on the part of the Company that the Plan be governed by or enforceable under the Employee Retirement Income Security act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA  it being the intent of the Company
that such Plan be governed by and enforceable under the laws of the State of New York.      ARTICLE I       DEFINITIONS       When used herein, the following words
shall have the following meanings unless the content clearly indicates otherwise:      1.1  Account .  Account  means the record-keeping device
used by the Company to measure and determine the amounts to be paid to a Participant under the Plan. Separate Accounts will be established for each Participant and as may otherwise be required.      1.2  Beneficiary .  Beneficiary  means the person who under this Plan becomes entitled to receive a Participant s interest in the event of his or her
death.      1.3  Board .  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company or any committee thereof acting within the scope of its authority.
     1.4  Committee .  Committee  means the Corporate Benefits Committee of the Company or a successor committee appointed to administer the
Plan pursuant to Article II.   

1.5  Company .  Company  means The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any
successor in interest.      1.6  Company Stock Fund Option .  Company Stock Fund Option  shall mean an investment fund alternative permitting
Participants to direct deferred compensation to purchase phantom stock units based on the Company s Common Stock.      1.7  Deferral Commitment .
 Deferral Commitment  means a commitment made by a Participant pursuant to Article III for which a Deferral Election has been submitted by the Participant to the Committee.      1.8  Deferral Election.   Deferral Election  means the written agreement to defer receipt of compensation submitted by a Participant to the Committee or its delegates prior to the commencement of the
period in which the deferred compensation is to be earned.      1.9  Effective Date .  Effective Date  of this Plan means January 1, 2008.
     1.10  Elective Deferred Compensation .  Elective Deferred Compensation  means the amount of compensation that a Participant elects to defer
pursuant to a Deferral Commitment.      1.11  Enrollment Period .  Enrollment Period  means (a) the thirty (30) days following the
effective date of an individual s first-time election or appointment to the Board or when he or she otherwise becomes eligible to participate in the Plan for the first time and (b) an annual fall enrollment period during which eligible
individuals may file new or amended Deferral Elections covering compensation to be earned in the following calendar year.      1.12  Internal Revenue
Code .  Internal Revenue Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      1.13  Participant .  Participant  means
any individual who is making (or has elected to make) deferrals, or who holds an Account, under the terms of the Plan.      1.14  Plan .  Plan 
means  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors  as set forth in this document and as the same may be amended, administered or interpreted from time to time.      1.15  Plan Year .  Plan Year  means each calendar year beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.      1.16  Retirement .  Retirement  means that a Participant no longer serves on the Board of Directors, for any reason other than death.      1.17  Standard Distribution Account .  Standard Distribution Account  means an Account established pursuant to Section 5.1, which provides for
distribution of a benefit during Service or following Retirement.         
   2   

1.18  Unforeseeable Emergency . An  Unforeseeable Emergency  is a severe financial hardship of the
Participant or Beneficiary resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant or Beneficiary, the Participant s or Beneficiary s spouse, or the Participant s or Beneficiary s dependent (as defined in Section 152(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code); loss of the Participant s or Beneficiary s property due to casualty (including the need to rebuild a home following damage to a home not otherwise covered by insurance, for example, not as a result of a natural
disaster); or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant or Beneficiary, as determined by the Committee, in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii) of the
Internal Revenue Code and Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(3) promulgated thereunder, on the basis of written information supplied by the Participant.      1.19  Valuation Date .  Valuation Date  means the last day of each month, or such other dates as the Committee may determine in its discretion, which may be either more or less frequent, for the valuation of
Participants  Accounts.      1.20  Variable Fund Options .  Variable Fund Options  means the variable rate investment fund alternatives
approved by the Committee and offered to Participants.      ARTICLE II       ADMINISTRATION       2.1  Administrator . Except as hereinafter provided, the Committee shall
be the administrator of the Plan and shall be responsible for administering the Plan in accordance with its terms and for the administrative responsibilities hereinafter described with respect to the Plan. Whenever any action is required or
permitted to be taken in the administration of the Plan, the Committee shall take such action unless the Committee s power is expressly limited herein or by operation of law. The Committee may delegate its duties and responsibilities as it, in
its sole discretion, deems necessary or appropriate to the execution of such duties and responsibilities. The Committee as a whole or any of its members may serve in more than one capacity with respect to the Plan.      2.2  Powers and Duties . The Committee, or its delegates, shall maintain and keep (or cause to be maintained and kept) such records as are necessary for the
efficient operation of the Plan or as may be required by any applicable law, regulation, or ruling and shall provide for the preparation and filing of such forms, reports, information, and documents as may be required to be filed with any
governmental agency or department and with the Plan s Participants and/or other Beneficiaries.      Except to the extent expressly reserved to the Company
or the Board, the Committee shall have all powers necessary to carry out the administrative provisions of the Plan and to satisfy the requirements of any applicable law or laws. These powers shall include, by way of illustration and not limitation,
the exclusive powers and discretionary authority necessary to:         
   3   

(a) construe and interpret the Plan; decide all questions of eligibility; decide all questions of fact
relating to claims for benefits; and determine the amount, time, manner, method, and mode of payment of any benefits hereunder;      (b) direct
the Company, and/or the trustee of any trust established at the discretion of the Company to provide for the payment of benefits under the Plan, concerning the amount, time, manner, method, and mode of payment of any benefits hereunder;   
  (c) prescribe procedures to be followed and forms to be used by Participants and/or other persons in filing applications or elections;      (d) prepare and distribute, in such manner as may be required by law or as the Committee deems appropriate, information explaining the Plan; provided,
however, that no such explanation shall contravene the terms of this Plan or increase the rights of any Participant or Beneficiary or the liabilities of the Company;      (e) require from the Company and Participants such information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan;      (f) appoint and retain individuals to assist in the administration and construction of the Plan, including such legal, clerical, accounting, and actuarial services as it may require or as may be required by any
applicable law or laws;      (g) approve the variable rate investment fund alternatives that will be offered as the Variable Fund Options;
     (h) approve any special elections and/or payouts permitted under AJCA and Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code; and   
  (i) perform all other administrative functions which are not expressly reserved to the Company or the Board, including, but not limited to, those
supplemental duties and responsibilities described in the  Corporate Benefits Committee Charter and Summary of Operations  approved on September 17, 1991 (the  CBC Charter ) which are not inconsistent with the Board s
intent that the Plan not be construed as governed by or subject to ERISA.      Without intending to limit the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall
have the power to amend the Plan, in whole or in part, in order to comply with applicable law; provided, however, that no such amendment may increase the duties and obligations of the Company without the consent of the Company. Except as provided in
the preceding sentence or unless directed by the Board or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board or otherwise required by law, the Committee shall have no power to adopt, amend or terminate the Plan, said powers being
exclusively reserved to the Board or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board.         
   4   

2.3  Procedures . The Committee shall be organized and conduct its business with respect to the Plan in accordance
with the organizational and procedural rules set forth in the CBC Charter.      2.4  Establishment of Rules . The Committee shall have specific authority
in its sole discretion to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan related to its powers and duties, and to the extent that the terms of the Plan are incomplete, the Committee shall have authority to establish such rules or regulations related
to its powers and duties as it may deem necessary and proper to carry out the intent of the Company as to the purposes of the Plan.      2.5  Limitation of
Liability . The Board, the members of the Committee, and any officer, employee, or agent of the Company shall not incur any liability individually or on behalf of any other individuals or on behalf of the Company for any act, or failure to act,
made in good faith in relation to the Plan. No bond or other security shall be required of any such individual solely on account of any such individual s power to direct the Company to make the payments required hereunder.      2.6  Compensation and Insurance . Members of the Committee shall serve without compensation for their services as such. Expenses incurred by members of the
Committee in the performance of their duties as herein provided, and the compensation and expenses of persons retained or employed by the Committee for services rendered in connection with the Plan shall, upon approval by the Committee, be paid or
reimbursed by the Company.      The Company shall indemnify and/or maintain and keep in force insurance in such form and amount as may be necessary in order to
protect the members of the Committee, their delegates and appointees (other than persons who are independent of the Company and are rendering services to the Committee or to or with respect to the Plan) from any claim, loss, damage, liability, and
expense (including costs and attorneys  fees) arising from their acts or failures to act with respect to the Plan, except where such actions or failures to act involve willful misconduct or gross negligence.      2.7  Removals and Resignations . Any member of the Committee may resign and the Company may remove any member of the Committee in accordance with the procedures
established by the CBC Charter. The Committee shall remain fully operative pending the filling of any vacancies, the remaining Committee members having full authority to administer the Plan.      2.8  Claims Procedure . The right of any Participant or Beneficiary to receive a benefit hereunder and the amount of such benefit shall be determined in accordance
with the procedures for determination of benefit claims established and maintained by the Committee; which separate procedures, entitled Procedures for Determination of Benefit Claims, are incorporated herein by this reference.         
   5   

ARTICLE III       PARTICIPATION AND DEFERRAL COMMITMENTS       3.1  Eligibility and Participation .      (a)  Eligibility . Eligibility to make a Deferral Commitment shall be limited to non-employee members of the Board who do not elect to defer into
another elective nonqualified deferred compensation plan of the Company or one of its subsidiaries.      (b)  Participation . Except as
otherwise provided herein, an eligible individual may elect to participate in the Plan by submitting a Deferral Election to the Committee or its delegates during the Enrollment Period preceding the commencement of the period in which the deferred
compensation is to be earned.      3.2  Duration of Deferral Commitment .      (a) A Deferral Commitment shall be effective for compensation to be earned during the next Plan Year following the date it is filed, or remainder of the current Plan Year in the case of an initial deferral election
under Section 1.11(a), and shall terminate at the end of such Plan Year, unless otherwise provided by the Committee or its delegates. A Deferral Election shall not apply to any deferrals that represent payments for services performed prior to
the beginning of the Plan Year to which it applies.      (b) A Participant s Deferral Commitments shall terminate upon the
Participant s Retirement or death and as provided in Section 5.3 in the case of an Unforeseeable Emergency.      3.3  Basic Forms of Deferral .
An eligible Director may file a Deferral Election to defer any payment by the Company or any affiliate of the Company for, or in lieu of, services rendered to the Company or any affiliate of the Company. The amount to be deferred shall be stated as
a whole number percentage of the amount to be paid to the Participant. No reallocation among the following components of compensation shall be permitted to affect or change a previously filed Deferral Election; provided, however, that only increases
in one or more components that are accompanied by decreases in one or more components shall be considered  reallocations  and provided further that the Committee shall have the authority to determine whether a reallocation has occurred
pursuant to the foregoing rule. Payments which are eligible for deferral may consist of, but shall not be limited to, any or all of the following forms of compensation:      (a)  Board Retainer . The retainer paid for meetings of the Board.      (b)  Board Meeting Fees . The
meeting fees paid for meetings of the Board.      (c)  Committee Meeting Fees . The meeting fees paid for meetings of committees of the
Board.         
   6   

(d)  Other Deferrals . Fees paid for any other services rendered by the Participant as a member of
the Board to the Company or any affiliate of the Company.      3.4  Limitations on Deferrals . The following limitations on deferrals shall apply:
     (a)  Minimum Deferrals . The minimum deferral amount that may be elected is two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for any Plan Year.
     (b)  Maximum Deferrals . A Participant may not defer for any Plan Year more than one hundred percent (100%) of all payments made
to the Participant for, or in lieu of, services rendered to the Company or affiliates of the Company.      (c)  Waiver; Committee
Discretion . The Committee may further limit the minimum or maximum amount deferred by any Participant or group of Participants, or waive the foregoing minimum and maximum limits for any Participant or group of Participants, for any reason.
     3.5  Termination of Deferral Commitments on Unforeseeable Emergency . Upon a finding that the Participant has suffered an Unforeseeable Emergency,
all previously elected Deferral Commitments of the Participant shall terminate.      3.6  Commencement of Deferral Commitment . A Deferral Commitment
shall be deemed to commence as of the first day of the Plan Year covered by the Deferral Election for such Deferral Commitment. A Participant s Beneficiary will be entitled to receive pre-retirement survivor benefits pursuant to
Section 5.2(a) with respect to the Deferral Commitment only in the event of the Participant s death while serving on the Board.      ARTICLE IV       DEFERRED COMPENSATION ACCOUNTS       4.1  Accounts . For record-keeping purposes only, Standard Distribution Accounts shall be maintained as applicable for each Participant s Elective Deferred Compensation. Accounts shall be deemed to be
credited with notional gains or losses as provided in Section 4.3 from the date of deferral through the Valuation Date.      4.2  Elective Deferred
Compensation . A Participant s Elective Deferred Compensation shall be credited to the Participant s Account(s) as of the date when the corresponding non-deferred portion of the compensation is paid or would have been paid but for the
Deferral Commitment. Any withholding of taxes or other amounts with respect to deferred compensation that is required by Federal, state or local law shall be withheld from the Participant s non-deferred compensation to the maximum extent
possible with any excess being withheld from the Participant s Deferral Commitment or Account(s).         
   7   

4.3  Notional Earnings and Losses . Accounts shall be credited with notional earnings and losses as of each
Valuation Date from the dates when deferred amounts are credited to Accounts based on the balance of each Account. Earnings and losses credited to each Account shall be based on the Participant s choices among the Variable Fund Options and the
Company Stock Fund Option, subject to the terms of this Section.      (a)  Earnings or Losses During Participant s Lifetime . During a
Participant s lifetime, all compensation deferred by the Participant will be credited as elected by the Participant with earnings or losses that may accrue based on the performance of (i) the Variable Fund Options or (ii) the Company
Stock Fund Option.      (b)  Earnings or Losses After Participant s Death . Following a Participant s death, all compensation
deferred by the Participant will be credited as elected by the Participant s Beneficiary with earnings or losses that may accrue based on the performance of (i) the Variable Fund Options or (ii) the Company Stock Fund Option.
     (c)  Changes to Investment Elections . Except as otherwise approved by the Committee, Participants and Beneficiaries may elect
quarterly to reallocate previously accrued notional funds among the Variable Fund Options. Participants shall not be permitted to reallocate previously accrued amounts between the Company Stock Fund Option and any of the Variable Fund Options.
     4.4  Valuation of Accounts . A Participant s Account as of each Valuation Date shall consist of the balance of the Participant s Account as
of the immediately preceding Valuation Date, increased by the Participant s Elective Deferred Compensation and earnings credited to such Account and reduced by losses sustained by any Variable Fund Options or the Company Stock Fund Option as
selected by the Participant or by distributions made from such Account since the immediately preceding Valuation Date.      4.5  Vesting of Accounts .
Each Participant shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested at all times in the amounts credited to such Participant s Accounts.      4.6
 Statement of Accounts . The Company shall submit to each Participant periodic statements setting forth the balance to the credit of the Accounts maintained for the Participant.      4.7  Company Stock Fund Option . Participants shall be permitted to defer Board retainer, Board/Committee meeting fees and fees paid by the Company for any other services rendered by the Participant as a member
of the Board to the Company or any affiliate of the Company into the Company Stock Fund Option. Participant deferrals into the Company Stock Fund Option shall be treated as if Elective Deferred Compensation were invested in the Company s Common
Stock on the dates of such deferrals as determined under Section 4.2. Deferrals shall be credited to Participant Accounts as phantom stock units representing whole and partial shares of the Company s Common Stock. The following rules shall
apply to such phantom stock units:         
   8   

(a) Phantom stock units shall be valued at the closing price of a share of the Company s Common
Stock in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions on the date of such deferral and each other relevant Valuation Date, or, if no sale shall have been made on such exchange on that date, the closing price in the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Transactions on the last preceding day on which there was a sale ( Fair Market Value ).      (b) Dividend equivalents shall
be accrued on phantom stock units, when and if declared and paid on the Company s Common Stock, and credited to additional phantom stock units as if such amounts were reinvested in the Company s Common Stock under the Company s Direct
Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan.      (c) Participants shall not be permitted to reallocate previously accrued amounts between the
Company Stock Fund Option and any of the Variable Fund Options.      (d) Participants in the Company Stock Fund Option shall not be considered
to be shareholders of the Company and shall be entitled only to those voting rights, if any, as may be approved by the Company with respect to shares of the Company s Common Stock that may be held in a trust established by the Company on behalf
of Plan Participants.      (e) Plan benefits paid under Article V from phantom stock units accrued under the Company Stock Fund Option shall be
settled only in shares of the Company s Common Stock, which will be credited to a book-entry account in the Participant s name.      (f) A Participant shall be advised as to the amount of any Federal, state, local or foreign income tax required to be withheld by the Company on the compensation income resulting from the payout of shares of the Company s Common Stock.
Participant shall pay any taxes required to be withheld directly to the Company in cash upon request; provided, however, that a Participant may satisfy such obligation in whole or in part by requesting the Company in writing to withhold from the
shares otherwise deliverable that number of shares having a Fair Market Value on the date on which such tax is calculated equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum statutory withholding tax obligation to be so satisfied. No shares of Common Stock
shall be delivered to a Participant unless and until Participant shall have satisfied any obligation for withholding taxes with respect thereto as provided herein.         
   9   

ARTICLE V       PLAN BENEFITS       5.1  Standard Distribution Account Benefit .      (a)  Election of Benefit . A Participant may file a Deferral Election to defer compensation into up to five (5) Standard Distribution Accounts
and receive benefits from each such Account following Retirement or during Service. A Participant shall elect one benefit payment option for each elected Standard Distribution Account specifying a date of commencement and duration of payments for
each Account. A Participant shall direct that each of his or her elected Standard Distribution Accounts be invested in any one or more of the Variable Fund Options and/or the Company Stock Fund. A Participant s election of payment options shall
be irrevocable, except as follows:      (i) A Participant shall be permitted to file one new payment election per year for each elected Standard
Distribution Account, which will supersede his or her original payment option for that Account. Such change elections must be filed more than twelve (12) months prior to the previously elected commencement date and may not take effect for
twelve (12) months. Change elections may not accelerate a payment commencement date and must delay payment for at least five (5) years from the previously elected payment commencement date. No change elections will be allowed if the
previously elected commencement date is age sixty-five (65) or older. In the event that a Participant accelerates the commencement date of his or her benefit, thereby causing a previously filed payment election to have been made within twelve
(12) months of such commencement date, the next preceding timely payment election filed by the Participant shall be followed. If it is found that a Participant s payment election does not comply with AJCA and Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code, benefits will be paid in accordance with the most recent valid election filed by the participant.      (ii) A Participant
who has elected payments in installments may request in writing a payment in a lump sum, at any time after Retirement, of the amount of his or her Account balance which is reasonably necessary to meet the Participant s requirements due to an
Unforeseeable Emergency.      (iii) A Participant may file without penalty any new payment election permitted by Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code and approved by the Committee.      (b)  Forms of Benefit Payment . The available forms of payment from a Standard
Distribution Account are as follows:      (i) One lump sum payment.         
   10   

(ii) Annual installments in approximately equal payments of principal and earnings, if any, over a
payment period of two (2) to fifteen (15) years, as elected by the Participant. The payment of the annual installments shall begin January 1 of a specified year and the amount shall be recalculated effective as of January 1 of
each year based on the remaining Account balance and the remaining number of installment payments.      (c)  Commencement of Benefit
Payment . The available commencement dates for payment of benefits from a Participant s Standard Distribution Account are as follows:      (i) Upon Retirement in a lump sum payment only.      (ii) January 1 of a specified year during Service or following Retirement;
provided, however, that no payment may commence earlier than the completion of one Plan Year following the start of deferrals into such Account nor later than the January of the fifth year following the Participant s Retirement.      (iii) January 1 following Retirement.      (d)  Default Retirement Benefit . If a Participant does not elect a benefit payment option for his or her Standard Distribution Account, Plan benefits from such Account will be paid in a lump sum within sixty (60) days of the end
of the month following Retirement.      5.2  Survivor Benefits .      (a)  Pre-Retirement Survivor Benefits . If a Participant dies while in Service as a member of the Board of Directors prior to complete distribution of his or her Standard Distribution Account balances, the
Company will pay the balance remaining in such Accounts to the Participant s Beneficiary. Such payment will be made as a lump sum or as an annual benefit payment over a payment period of two (2) to fifteen (15) years, as elected by
the Participant on a form prescribed by the Committee for designation of form of payment of survivor benefits. The Participant may change such election at any time by filing a new election form for designation of survivor benefits, provided however,
that survivor benefit election changes will not take effect for twelve (12) months and, provided further, that if death occurs within twelve (12) months following an election change, the most recent valid election on file will apply.
Amounts credited to the Company Stock Fund Option for a Participant shall be included in the calculation of the amount payable, but such amounts shall be distributed in shares of the Company s Common Stock and credited against the obligations
under this section in a manner to be approved by the Committee.         
   11   

If a Participant dies while in Service after complete distribution of his or her entire Standard
Distribution Account balances, no survivor benefit will be payable to the Participant s Beneficiary. All amounts credited to the Company Stock Fund Option for a Participant shall be distributed in shares of the Company s Common Stock.
     (b)  Post-Retirement Survivor Benefits . If a Participant dies after Retirement but before commencement of payment of retirement
benefits with respect to his or her Standard Distribution Account balances, the Company will pay to the Participant s Beneficiary the installments of any such benefit that such Participant s Beneficiary would have received with respect to
such Standard Distribution Account balances had the Participant commenced to receive retirement benefits on the day prior to such Participant s death. Payments will commence upon the Participant s death, irrespective of when retirement
benefits would have commenced if the Participant had survived. Such payments shall be made in accordance with the method of payment that the Participant had elected for payment of retirement benefits for his or her Standard Distribution Accounts.
     If a Participant dies after the commencement of payment of retirement benefits with respect to his or her Standard Distribution Accounts,
the Company will pay to the Participant s Beneficiary the remaining installments of any such benefit that would have been paid to the Participant had the Participant survived.      If a Participant dies after Retirement, but before receiving full payment of benefits from a Standard Distribution Account payable during Service, his or
her Beneficiary shall receive the balance of such Account in one lump sum payment, as soon as practicable following his or her death, provided that amounts credited to the Company Stock Fund Option shall be distributed in shares of the
Company s Common Stock.      (c)  Valuation Date . The amount payable with respect to each of the Participant s Standard
Distribution Accounts shall be determined by crediting such Accounts through the date of the Participant s death with all the Participant s deferrals and all earnings or losses based on the performance of the Variable Fund Options or the
Company Stock Fund Option as elected by the Participant for each of such Accounts. After the Participant s death, the Accounts will be increased or reduced as provided in Section 4.3.      (d)  Death of Survivor . Upon the death of a Participant s Beneficiary, the amount of any survivor benefit remaining payable to such Beneficiary
will be paid in a lump sum to the Beneficiary s estate or personal representative, provided that amounts credited to the Company Stock Fund Option shall be distributed in shares of the Company s Common Stock. The lump sum amount will be
determined by taking the present value of the remaining payments using such discount rate as the Committee may determine.         
   12   

5.3  Unforeseeable Emergency . Upon finding that a Participant or Beneficiary has suffered an Unforeseeable
Emergency, the Committee will make distributions from an Account prior to the time specified for payment of benefits under the Plan. The amount of such distributions will be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to meet the Participant s
or Beneficiary s requirements during the Unforeseeable Emergency. Applications for Unforeseeable Emergency distributions and determinations thereon by the Committee shall be in writing, and a Participant or Beneficiary may be required to
furnish written proof of the Unforeseeable Emergency.      Following a complete distribution of an entire Account balance necessary to meet Participant s
Unforeseeable Emergency, a Participant and his or her Beneficiary will be entitled to no further benefits under the Plan with respect to that Account. Amounts paid to a Participant pursuant to this Section shall be treated as distributions from the
Participant s Account. The Deferral Commitment for any Participant who receives an Unforeseeable Emergency distribution of any part of an Account balance shall end and the Participant shall not be allowed to make any deferrals under the Plan
during the remainder of the Plan Year in which he receives such distribution and shall not be allowed to file a Deferral Election for the next Plan Year.      5.4  Valuation and Settlement . The date on which a lump sum is paid or the date on which installment payments commence shall be the  Settlement Date.  The Settlement Date for an Account shall be no more than sixty
(60) days after the end of the month in which the Participant or his or her Beneficiary becomes entitled to payments under the Plan on account of Retirement or death, unless the Participant elects to defer commencement of payments to a later
date in the election form for designation of form of payment for the Account. The Settlement Date for payments during Service or delayed payments following Retirement shall be the date that the Participant elects for commencement of such payments in
the Deferral Election designating the form of payment for the Account. The amount of a lump sum payment and the initial amount of installment payments shall be based on the value of the Participant s Account as of the Valuation Date at the end
of the immediately preceding month before the Settlement Date. For example, the Valuation Date at the end of December shall be used to determine lump sum payments and the initial amount of installment payments which will be made in the following
January.      5.5  Distributions from General Assets . The Company shall make any or all distributions pursuant to this Plan in cash out of its general
assets, except that all distributions from the Company Stock Fund Option shall be settled only in shares of the Company s Common Stock credited to a book-entry account in the Participant s name.      5.6  Withholding and Payroll Taxes . The Company shall withhold from payments made hereunder any taxes required to be withheld from such payments under Federal,
state or local law.         
   13   

5.7  Payment to Guardian . If a benefit is payable to a minor or a person declared incompetent or to a person
incapable of handling the disposition of his or her property, the Committee may direct payment of such benefit to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent or incapacitated person. The
Committee may require proof of minority, incompetency, incapacity or guardianship, as it may deem appropriate prior to distribution of the benefit. Such distribution shall completely discharge the Committee from all liability with respect to such
benefit.      5.8  Small Benefit . Notwithstanding any election made by the Participant, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may direct payment of any
benefit in the form of a lump sum payment to the Participant or any Beneficiary, if the lump sum amount of the Account balance which is payable to the Participant or Beneficiary when payments to such Participant or Beneficiary would otherwise
commence is less than the limit on elective deferrals under Section 402(g) of the Internal Revenue Code.      5.9  Protective Provisions . Each
Participant shall cooperate with the Company by furnishing any and all information requested by the Company in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder, taking such physical examinations as the Company may deem necessary and taking such
other relevant action as may be requested by the Company. If a Participant refuses so to cooperate or makes any material misstatement of information or nondisclosure of medical history, then no benefits will be payable hereunder with respect to such
Participant or his or her Beneficiary, provided that, in the Company s sole discretion, benefits may be payable in an amount reduced to compensate the Company for any loss, cost, damage or expense suffered or incurred by the Company as a result
in any way of any such action, misstatement or nondisclosure.      5.10  Notices and Elections . Any notice or election required or permitted to be given
to the Company or the Committee under the Plan shall be sufficient only if it is in writing on a form prescribed or accepted by the Committee and hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to the principal office of the Company,
directed to the attention of the Human Resources Department of the Company. Such notice or election shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for
registration or certification.      ARTICLE VI       DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY       6.1  Designation of Beneficiary . Each Participant shall have the right to
designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries to receive his or her interest in each of his or her Accounts upon his or her death. Such designation shall be made on a form prescribed by and delivered to the Company. The Participant shall have the right
to change or revoke any such designation from time to time by filing a new designation or notice of revocation with the Company, and no notice to any Beneficiary or consent by any Beneficiary shall be required to effect any such change or
revocation.         
   14   

6.2  Failure to Designate Beneficiary . If a Participant shall fail to designate a Beneficiary before his or her
demise, or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, the Committee shall direct the Company to pay the balance in each of his or her Accounts in a lump sum to the executor or administrator for his or her estate; provided, however, if no
executor or administrator shall have been appointed, and actual notice of said death was given to the Committee within sixty (60) days after his or her death, and if his or her Account balances do not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000), the
Committee may direct the Company to pay his or her Account balances to such person or persons as the Committee determines, and the Committee may require such proof of right and/or identity of such person or persons as the Committee may deem
appropriate or necessary.      ARTICLE VII       FORFEITURES TO COMPANY       7.1  Distribution of Participant s Interest When Company is Unable to Locate Distributees . In case the
Company is unable within three (3) years after payment is due to a Participant, or within three (3) years after payment is due to the Beneficiary or estate of a deceased Participant, to make such payment to him or her or his or her
Beneficiary, executor or administrator because it cannot ascertain his or her whereabouts or the identity or whereabouts of his or her Beneficiary, executor or administrator by mailing to the last known address shown on the Company s records,
and neither he, his or her Beneficiary, nor his or her executor or administrator had made written claim therefore before the expiration of the aforesaid time limit, then in such case, the amount due shall be forfeited to the Company.      ARTICLE VIII       MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS  
     8.1  Books and Records . The Company shall keep, or cause to be kept, all such books of account, records and other data as may be necessary or
advisable in its judgment for the administration of this Plan, and properly to reflect the affairs thereof, and to determine the nature and amount of the interests of the respective Participants in each Account.      The Company is not required to physically segregate any assets with respect to the Accounts under this Plan from any other assets of the Company and may commingle any
such assets with any other moneys, securities and properties of any kind of the Company. Separate accounts or records for the respective Participants  interests shall be maintained for operational and accounting purposes, but no such account or
record shall be considered as creating a lien of any nature whatsoever on or as segregating any of the assets with respect to the Accounts under this Plan from any other funds or property of the Company.         
   15   

ARTICLE IX       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN       9.1  Amendment . The Board or the Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee of the Board may at any time amend the Plan in whole or in part, provided, however, that no amendment shall be effective to decrease or restrict the amount accrued (including earnings at the appropriate interest rate) in any Account to the
date of such amendment. Notwithstanding anything in the preceding sentence to the contrary, the Committee shall have the power to amend the Plan to the extent authorized by Section 2.2.      9.2  Company s Right to Terminate . The Board or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board may partially or completely terminate the Plan
if, in its judgment, the tax, accounting, or other effects of the continuance of the Plan or potential payments thereunder would not be in the best interests of the Company.      (a)  Partial Termination . The Board or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board may partially terminate the Plan by
instructing the Committee not to accept any additional or ongoing Deferral Commitments. In the event of such partial termination, the Plan shall continue to operate on the same terms and conditions and, unless the Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee of the Board instructs the Committee not to accept ongoing Deferral Commitments, shall be effective with regard to Deferral Commitments entered into prior to the effective date of such partial termination.      (b)  Complete Termination . The Board or the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board may completely terminate the Plan, and if
elected, the Company may provide for payouts to Participants in connection with such termination, provided such payouts are consistent with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.      ARTICLE X       SPENDTHRIFT PROVISIONS       10.1  No Right to Alienation or Assignment . The Company shall, except as otherwise provided hereunder, pay all amounts payable hereunder only to the person or
persons entitled thereto hereunder, and all such payments shall be made directly into the hands of each such person or persons and not into the hands of any other person or corporation whatsoever, so that said payments may not be liable for the
debts, contracts or engagements of any such designated person or persons, or taken in execution by attachment or garnishment or by any other legal or equitable proceedings, nor shall any such designated person or persons have any right to alienate,
arbitrate, execute, pledge, encumber, or assign any such payments or the benefits or proceeds thereof. If the person entitled to receive payment be a minor, or a person of unsound mind, whether or not adjudicated incompetent, the Company, upon
direction of the Committee, may make such payments to such person or persons, corporation or corporations as may be, or be acting as, parent or legal or natural guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind. The  
       
   16   

signed receipt of such person or corporation shall be a full and complete discharge to the Company for any such payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Committee may assign and/or accelerate the payment of a Participant s vested account balances to an individual other than the Participant as may be necessary to comply with a  qualified domestic relations order  as defined by and
under the terms provided in Code Section 414(p), Code Section 409A and other applicable authorities.      ARTICLE XI       MISCELLANEOUS       11.1  Right of Company to Replace
Members of the Board of Directors; Obligations . Neither the action of the Company in establishing this Plan, nor any provisions of this Plan, shall be construed as giving any member of the Board the right to be retained in such capacity, or any
right to any payment whatsoever except to the extent of the benefits provided for by this Plan. The Company expressly reserves the right at any time to replace or fail to renominate any member of the Board without any liability for any claim against
the Company for any payment whatsoever except to the extent provided for in this Plan. The Company has no obligation to create any other or subsequent deferred compensation plan for any members of the Board.      11.2  Title to and Ownership of Assets Held for Accounts . Title to and ownership of all assets held for any Accounts shall be vested in the Company and shall
constitute general assets of the Company.      11.3  Nature of Liability to Participants . Any and all payments required to be made by the Company to
Participants in the Plan shall be general and unsecured liabilities of the Company.      11.4  Text of Plan to Control . The headings of the Articles and
Sections are included solely for convenience of reference, and if there be any conflict between such headings and the text of this Plan, the text shall control.      This Plan document sets forth the complete terms of the Plan. In the event of any discrepancies or conflicts between this Plan document and any summary or other information regarding the Plan, the terms of this Plan document shall apply and
control.      11.5  Law Governing and Severability . This Plan shall be construed, regulated and administered under the laws of the State of New York. If
any provisions of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining provisions of this Plan, and this Plan shall be deemed to be modified to the least extent possible
to make it valid and enforceable in its entirety.      11.6  Name . This Plan may be referred to as  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Deferred
Compensation Plan for Directors.       11.7  Gender . The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular shall include the plural,
except when the context expressly dictates otherwise.         
   17   

11.8  Trust Fund . The Company shall be responsible for the payment of all benefits provided under the Plan. At its
discretion, the Company may establish one or more trusts, with such trustees as the Board or the Committee may approve, for the purpose of providing for the payment of such benefits. Such trust or trusts may be irrevocable, but the assets thereof
shall be subject to the claims of the Company s creditors. To the extent any benefits provided under the Plan are actually paid from any such trust, the Company shall have no further obligation with respect thereto, but to the extent not so
paid, such benefits shall remain the obligation of, and shall be paid by, the Company.         
   18   

</EX-10.71>

<EX-10.98>
 4
 dex1098.htm
 MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (2004)

Mellon Financial Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (2004) 

Exhibit 10.98       MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION      LONG-TERM PROFIT INCENTIVE PLAN (2004)       NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT       THIS AGREEMENT, made this 20th day of February, 2007, by and between Mellon Financial Corporation (the  Corporation ), having its principal place of business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,      and       Name , a key employee (the
 Optionee ) of the Corporation      WITNESSETH THAT:      WHEREAS, the Optionee is now employed by the Corporation ( Corporation,  when used herein with reference to employment of the Optionee, shall include any Affiliate of the Corporation as defined in the Plan)
as a key employee; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation has adopted the Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004) (the  Plan ) under
which the Corporation may grant to key employees of the Corporation options to purchase common stock of Mellon Financial Corporation (hereinafter  Common Stock  and      WHEREAS, the Corporation desires to grant a stock option for  Options  shares of Common Stock to the Optionee.      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto hereby agree with
each other as follows:      SECTION 1:  Employment       1.1 Neither the grant of the Option nor anything else contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to limit or restrict the right of the Corporation to terminate the Optionee s employment at any time, for any
reason, with or without Cause.      SECTION 2:  Stock Option       2.1 Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and to the terms of the Plan, the Corporation hereby grants to the Optionee the right and option
to purchase at any time and from time to time from the Corporation at a price of $                      per share (the  Option
Price ), which is the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by the Option on the date of grant, up to, but not exceeding in the aggregate, the number of shares of Common Stock stated above (the  Option ).   

SECTION 3:  Exercise and Withholding       3.1 This Option may not be exercised prior to February 20, 2008. Subject to Section 4 of this Agreement: (1) This Option may be exercised
between February 20, 2008 and February 19, 2009, inclusive, for a number of shares of Common Stock equal to one-fifth of the number of shares covered by this Option (rounded upward to the nearest whole share) minus the aggregate number of
shares purchased hereunder prior to the date of exercise; (2) This Option may be exercised between February 20, 2009 and February 19, 2010, inclusive, for a number of shares of Common Stock equal to two-fifths of the number of shares
covered by this Option (rounded upward to the nearest whole share) minus the aggregate number of shares purchased hereunder prior to the date of exercise; (3) This Option may be exercised between February 20, 2010 and February 19,
2011, inclusive, for a number of shares of Common Stock equal to three-fifths of the number of shares covered by this Option (rounded upward to the nearest whole share) minus the aggregate number of shares purchased hereunder prior to the date of
exercise; (4) This Option may be exercised between February 20, 2011 and February 19, 2012, inclusive, for a number of shares of Common Stock equal to four-fifths of the number of shares covered by this Option (rounded upward to the
nearest whole share) minus the aggregate number of shares purchased hereunder prior to the date of exercise; and (5) This Option may be exercised between February 20, 2012 and February 19, 2017, inclusive, for a number of shares of
Common Stock equal to the full number of shares covered by this Option minus the aggregate number of shares purchased hereunder prior to the date of exercise. This Option may not be exercised after February 19, 2017.      3.2 This Option shall be exercised by the Optionee by delivering to the Corporation s Executive Compensation area (AIM No. 151-0722)
(i) this Agreement signed by the Optionee, (ii) a written notification specifying the number of shares which the Optionee then desires to purchase and the address to which share certificates should be delivered, (iii) a check payable
to the order of the Corporation and/or shares, or certification of ownership for shares, of Common Stock equal in value to the aggregate Option Price of such shares and/or an instruction from the Optionee directing the Corporation to withhold shares
of Common Stock otherwise receivable upon exercise of this Option (subject to any restrictions regarding prior ownership of such shares or an equivalent number of shares imposed by the Corporation), and (iv) a stock power executed in blank for
any shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to clause (iii) hereof. Shares of Common Stock surrendered or certified in exercise of this Option shall have been held by the Optionee for at least six months prior to such delivery and shall be
valued as of the date, and by the means, prescribed by the Corporation s procedures in effect at the time of such exercise and in accordance with the terms of the Plan.      3.3 In each case where the Optionee exercises this Option in whole or in part the Corporation will notify the Optionee of the amount of withholding tax,
if any, required under federal and, where applicable, state and local law, and the Optionee shall, forthwith upon the receipt of such notice, remit the required amount to the Corporation or, in accordance with such regulations as the Committee, as
hereinafter defined, may prescribe, elect to have the withholding obligation satisfied in whole or in part by the Corporation withholding full shares of Common Stock and crediting them against the withholding obligation.         
   -2-   

3.4 As soon as practicable after each exercise of this Option and compliance by the Optionee with all
applicable conditions, the Corporation will mail or cause to be mailed to the Optionee at the address specified in the written notification delivered pursuant to Paragraph 3.2 hereof certificates registered in the name of the Optionee, or such name
as directed by the Optionee, for the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, which the Optionee is entitled to receive upon such exercise under the provisions of this Agreement. Alternatively, the Corporation may credit such shares to a book-entry
account in Optionee s name.      3.5 From time to time and for any reason it deems appropriate, the Corporation may amend its procedures
for the exercise of stock options, and if such procedures are so amended, the provisions of Sections 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4 hereof shall be amended immediately and automatically to incorporate such amendment;  provided ,  however , that no such
amendment shall be incorporated without the Optionee s written consent if it would adversely affect the Optionee s rights under Section 2.1, 3.1, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 or 4.6 hereof.      SECTION 4:  Termination of Employment       4.1 Except as provided in Section 4.3 hereof with respect to vesting (but not with respect to the post-termination exercise period), if the Optionee s termination of employment is on or after age 55 and Optionee is credited with
five years of employment with the Corporation, the Optionee shall have the right to exercise this Option within two years after such termination date, to the extent this Option was exercisable at the time of such termination; provided that, if such
Optionee s employment is terminated in accordance with the Corporation s Employee Displacement Program or other termination providing separation/transition pay, the termination date for purposes of the foregoing vesting and
post-termination exercise period shall be the last day for which Optionee receives salary continuance or separation/transition pay from the Corporation.      4.2 If the Optionee s termination of employment is by reason of his or her total disability covered by a long-term disability plan of the Corporation then in effect, the Optionee shall have the right to exercise
this Option within two years after such date of termination of employment, measured from the last day for which Optionee receives short-term disability benefits, to the extent this Option was exercisable at the time of such termination of
employment.      4.3 Notwithstanding Section 4.5 of the Plan, this Option shall not become fully exercisable immediately and automatically
upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event, as defined in Section 2.4 of the Plan. However, if the Optionee s employment is terminated by the Corporation without  Cause,  as defined in Section 4.6(d) of the Plan,
within three years after the occurrence of a Change in Control Event, this Option shall automatically become fully exercisable and the Optionee shall have the right to exercise this Option within one year after such date of termination of
employment; provided that, if the Optionee s employment is terminated in accordance with the Corporation s Employee Displacement Program or other termination providing separation/transition pay, the termination date for purposes of
measuring the Optionee s post-termination exercise period shall be the last day for which Optionee receives salary continuance or separation/transition pay from the Corporation, but excluding any period         
   -3-   

during which receipt of payments may be delayed to avoid imposition of additional taxes under Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.      4.4 If the Optionee shall die while employed by the Corporation, or within a period following
termination of employment during which this Option remains exercisable under Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.5 or 4.6 hereof, this Option may be exercised within two years from the date of the Optionee s death by the executor or administrator of the
Optionee s estate or by the person or persons to whom the Optionee shall have transferred such right by Will or by the laws of descent and distribution, to the extent this Option was exercisable by the Optionee at the time of his or her death.
     4.5 Except as provided in Section 4.3 hereof with respect to vesting (but not with respect to the post-termination exercise period),
in the event all employment of the Optionee with the Corporation is terminated due to the sale of a business unit or subsidiary of the Corporation by which the Optionee is employed, and the Optionee is not displaced pursuant to the
Corporation s Employee Displacement Program or other termination providing transition/separation pay, the Optionee shall have the right to exercise this Option within one year from the date of his or her termination of employment to the extent
this Option was exercisable at the time of termination of employment.      4.6 Except as provided in Section 4.3 (but using the end of the
Optionee s salary continuance period as the date of termination of employment for purposes of vesting if more favorable to the Optionee) or Section 4.1 hereof, in the event the Optionee s employment is terminated in accordance with
the Corporation s Employee Displacement Program or other termination providing separation/transition pay, this Option shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Section 3.1 through the end of the Optionee s salary
continuance period (including any period during which receipt of benefits may be delayed) and to that extent shall remain exercisable through such period.      4.7 In the event all employment of the Optionee with the Corporation is terminated for any reason other than stated above, this Option shall terminate upon such termination of employment. Except as otherwise
specifically provided herein, the effective date of Optionee s termination shall be the date upon which Optionee ceases to perform services as an employee of the Corporation, without regard to accrued vacation, severance or other benefits or
the characterization thereof on the payroll records of the Corporation.      4.8 Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall this Option
be exercisable after February 19, 2017.      SECTION 5:  Miscellaneous       5.1 Whenever the word  Optionee  is used in any provision of this Option under circumstances where the provision should logically be construed
to apply to the executors, the administrators or the person or persons to whom this Option may be transferred  as permitted herein , the word  Optionee  shall be deemed to include such person or persons.         
   -4-   

5.2 This Option may be transferred (i) by the Optionee upon his or her death or (ii) as
directed by the Optionee named on the first page of this Agreement during his or her lifetime by gift to members of his or her immediate family or to an entity for the benefit of the Optionee and/or members of his or her immediate family. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, members of the Optionee s immediate family and entities for the benefit of the Optionee and/or members of his or her immediate family shall mean any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent,
grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, a trust in which these persons have the exclusive beneficial interest and any
other entity in which these persons own and retain 100% of the beneficial interest. All transfers shall be made in accordance with procedures adopted by the Corporation, which may be amended by the Corporation from time to time. No other assignment
or transfer of this Option, or of the rights represented thereby, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise shall be permitted, but immediately upon any such assignment or transfer this Option shall terminate and become of
no further effect. This Option shall be exercisable only by the Optionee or by an immediate family member or entity or other person to which this section permits transfer and shall remain subject to any restrictions on exercise and otherwise as if
held by the Optionee. The Corporation shall have received an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, local or other withholding tax requirements prior to the delivery of any certificate for the shares issuable upon exercise of this Option.
     5.3 If there is any change in the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, spin-off, split-up, spin-out,
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, or any other similar transaction, the number and kind of shares subject to this Option and the Option Price, as applicable, shall be appropriately adjusted
by the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Committee ).      5.4
Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Optionee hereby agrees that he or she will not exercise the Option granted hereby, and that the Corporation will not be obligated to issue any shares to the Optionee hereunder, if the exercise thereof
or the issuance of such shares shall constitute a violation by the Optionee or the Corporation of any provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority. Any determination in this connection by the Committee shall be final, binding and
conclusive. The Corporation shall in no event be obliged to register any securities pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (as the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action in order to cause the exercise of
the Option or the issuance of shares pursuant thereto to comply with any law or regulation of any governmental authority.      5.5 No amount of
income received by an Optionee pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement plan, insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Corporation.      5.6 The parties hereto agree that the Option granted hereby is  not , and should  not  be construed to be, an incentive stock option under
Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.         
   -5-   

5.7 The Optionee accepts the grant of the Option confirmed hereby, and agrees to be bound by the terms
and provisions of the Plan, as the Plan may be amended from time to time; provided, however, that no alteration, amendment, revocation or termination of the Plan shall, without the written consent of the Optionee, adversely affect the rights of the
Optionee with respect to the Option. Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 4.3 hereof, should there be any inconsistency between the provisions of this Option and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the provisions in the Plan
shall govern and prevail. A copy of the Plan may be obtained by writing or calling the Executive Compensation Division of the Human Resources Department of the Corporation at the Corporation s principal office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
     5.8 This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, other than any choice
of law rules calling for the application of laws of another jurisdiction.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the
day and year first above written.        

MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION   

By:  

Chairman, President   Chief Executive Officer   

OPTIONEE   

, 2007         
   -6-   

</EX-10.98>

<EX-10.99>
 5
 dex1099.htm
 MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION LONG-TERM PROFIT INCENTIVE PLAN (2004)

Mellon Financial Corporation Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004) 

Exhibit 10.99       MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION      LONG TERM PROFIT INCENTIVE PLAN (2004)       RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT       THIS AGREEMENT, made this 20   th    day of February, 2007, by and between Mellon Financial Corporation (the  Corporation ), having its principal place of business in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,      and       Name , a key employee
( Grantee ) of the Corporation      WITNESSETH THAT:      WHEREAS, Grantee is now employed by the Corporation ( Corporation , when used herein with reference to employment of Grantee, shall include any Affiliate of the Corporation as defined in the Plan) as a key
employee; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation has adopted the Long Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004) (the  Plan ) under which the
Corporation may grant to key employees of the Corporation shares of common stock, par value $.50 per share, of the Corporation (the  Stock ) subject to restrictions set forth in the Plan and in this Agreement; and      WHEREAS, the Corporation desires to grant  ShareAmt  shares of Stock to Grantee.      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto hereby agree with
each other as follows:      SECTION 1:  Stock Award       1.1 Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and to the terms of the Plan, and in order to provide an additional incentive for Grantee, as a key employee, to work for the long-range success of the
Corporation, the Corporation hereby awards to Grantee the number of shares of Stock stated above, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10.7 of the Plan.      SECTION 2:  Restrictions on Transfer       2.1 No shares of Stock awarded hereunder or any interest
therein may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise disposed of (any such action being hereinafter referred to as a  Disposition  of shares) by Grantee until such time as this restriction lapses with respect to such shares
pursuant to Sections 3.1, 3.2 or 3.3 hereof, and any attempt to make such a Disposition shall be null and void and result in the immediate forfeiture and return to the Corporation without consideration of any shares of Stock as to which restrictions
on Disposition shall at such time be in effect.         

2.2 Grantee agrees that a restrictive legend in substantially the following form may be placed on the
certificate representing the shares of Stock awarded hereunder:       The sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or other disposition of the
shares represented by this certificate is subject to the restrictions set forth in the Mellon Financial Corporation Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004) and in the Restricted Stock Agreement executed thereunder dated as of February 20,
2007, copies of each of which are available for inspection at the principal office of Mellon Financial Corporation. No such transaction shall be recognized as valid or effective unless there shall have been compliance with the terms and conditions
of such Agreement.       2.3 Grantee hereby authorizes the Corporation or its agents to retain custody of the certificates representing
the Stock awarded hereunder until such time as the restrictions on Disposition lapse. As soon as practicable after the date on which restrictions on Disposition of any shares lapse, the Corporation will cause to be delivered to Grantee (which
delivery may be by the Corporation s interoffice mail or by the U.S. mail at the last address for Grantee then indicated in the Corporation s records) certificates for such shares registered in the name of Grantee with the restrictive
legend described in Section 2.2 hereof removed, or credit such shares to a book-entry account in Grantee s name. As soon as practicable after the signing of this Agreement, Grantee shall deliver to the Corporation s Executive
Compensation area (AIM No. 151-0722), a signed copy of this Agreement.      2.4 Grantee understands that the transfer agent for the Stock
will be instructed to effect transfers of the shares of Stock awarded hereunder only upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      SECTION 3:  Lapse of Restrictions and Forfeiture of Shares       3.1 If Grantee remains continuously
employed by the Corporation through the close of business on February 20, 2010, the restrictions on Disposition of the Stock set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse in full on such date and Grantee shall receive the shares of Stock
free of such restrictions on Disposition.      3.2 Notwithstanding Section 3.1 hereof, the restrictions on Disposition of the Stock set
forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse immediately upon termination of Grantee s active employment with the Corporation prior to the close of business on February 20, 2010, if such termination is by reason of (i) Grantee s
death, (ii) Grantee s disability (covered by a long-term disability plan of the Corporation or an Affiliate then in effect), (iii) Grantee s termination on or after age 55 with five years of credited employment with the
Corporation, (iv) a displacement, as determined in accordance with the Corporation s Employee Displacement Program, or a termination providing transition/separation pay, or (v) sale of a business unit or subsidiary of the Corporation
by which Grantee is employed.      3.3 Notwithstanding Section 8.5 of the Plan, all restrictions on Disposition of the Stock shall not
lapse immediately upon the occurrence of a Change in Control Event, as defined in Section 2.4 of the Plan; provided, however, and notwithstanding Section 3.1 hereof, the restrictions on Disposition of the Stock set forth in
Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse immediately if Grantee s employment is terminated by the Corporation without  Cause,  as defined in Section         
   -2-   

4.6(d) of the Plan, within three years after the occurrence of a  Change in Control Event , as defined in Section 2.4 of the Plan.   
  3.4 Upon the effective date of a termination of Grantee s employment with the Corporation for any reason not specified in Section 3.2 or
Section 3.3 hereof, all shares of Stock then subject to restrictions on Disposition shall immediately be forfeited and returned to the Corporation without consideration or further action being required of the Corporation. For purposes of the
immediately preceding sentence, the effective date of Grantee s termination shall be the date upon which Grantee ceases to perform services as an employee of the Corporation, without regard to accrued vacation, severance or other benefits or
the characterization thereof on the payroll records of the Corporation.      SECTION 4:  Miscellaneous       4.1 Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Grantee hereby agrees to take any action, and consents to the taking of any action by the
Corporation, with respect to the Stock awarded hereunder necessary to achieve compliance with applicable laws or regulations in effect from time to time. Any determination by the Compensation and Management Succession Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation (the  Committee ) with respect to the need for any action in order to achieve such compliance with laws or regulations shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Corporation shall in no event be obligated to
register any securities pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 (as the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action in order to cause the award of Stock under the Plan, the lapsing of restrictions thereon or the
delivery of certificates therefore to comply with any law or regulation in effect from time to time.      4.2 Grantee shall be advised by the
Corporation or an Affiliate as to the amount of any federal, state, local or foreign income or employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation or such Affiliate on the compensation income resulting from the award of, or lapse of
restrictions on, the Stock. Grantee shall pay any taxes required to be withheld directly to the Corporation or any Affiliate in cash upon request; provided, however, that where the restrictions on Disposition set forth in Section 2.1 hereof
have lapsed Grantee may satisfy such obligation in whole or in part by requesting the Corporation in writing to withhold from the Stock otherwise deliverable to Grantee or by delivering to the Corporation shares of its Stock having a Fair Market
Value, as defined in Section 2.11 of the Plan, on the date the restrictions lapse equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum statutory withholding tax obligation to be so satisfied and, further provided, that except as otherwise permitted by
the Corporation s Human Resources Department no shares may be delivered in payment of such withholding taxes unless such shares, or an equivalent number of shares of Stock, shall have been held by Grantee for at least six months prior to such
delivery. Grantee understands that no shares of Stock shall be delivered to Grantee, notwithstanding the lapse of the restrictions thereon, unless and until Grantee shall have satisfied any obligation for withholding taxes with respect thereto as
provided herein.      4.3 Grantee hereby indemnifies the Corporation and holds it harmless from and against any and all damages or liabilities
incurred by the Corporation (including liabilities for attorneys  fees and disbursements) arising out of any breach by Grantee of this Agreement, including, without limitation, any attempted Disposition in violation of Section 2.1 hereof.
        
   -3-   

4.4 Nothing herein shall be construed as giving Grantee any right to be retained in the employ of the
Corporation or affect any right which the Corporation may have to terminate the employment of such Grantee.      4.5 Except as otherwise
specifically provided in Section 3.3 hereof, this Agreement is subject in all respects to the terms of the Plan, as amended and interpreted from time to time by the Committee; provided, however, that no alteration, amendment, revocation or
termination of the Plan shall, without the written consent of Grantee, adversely affect the rights of Grantee with respect to the Stock. Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 3.3 hereof, should there be any inconsistency between
the provisions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the provisions in the Plan shall govern. Grantee may obtain a copy of the Plan by writing or calling the Executive Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human
Resources Department in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.      4.6 This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, other than any choice of law provisions calling for the application of laws of another jurisdiction.      IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.        

MELLON FINANCIAL CORPORATION   

By:  

Chairman, President   Chief Executive Officer   

GRANTEE   

, 2007         
   -4-   

</EX-10.99>

<EX-12.1>
 6
 dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit - 12.1        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation  

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results, while results prior to July 1, 2007, include legacy The Bank of New York only. 

(b)   
   The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 7
 dex131.htm
 ALL PORTIONS OF THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION 2007 ANNUAL REPORT

All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2007 Annual Report 

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 13.1        

      THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION      2007 Annual Report    

     Financial Section   

Table of Contents  

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        2007 ANNUAL REPORT        FINANCIAL SECTION        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Financial Review   

Page   

Introduction     
     
  2   

Financial Summary     
     
  3   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:    

Results of Operations    
     
  4   

Overview    
     
  4   

Summary of Financial Results    
     
  5   

Revenue Overview    
     
  6   

Sector Overview    
     
  7   

Fee and Other Revenue    
     
  8   

Net Interest Revenue    
     
  11   

Noninterest Expense    
     
  14   

Income Taxes    
     
  16   

Extraordinary (loss)   Consolidation of Three Rivers Funding Corporation ( TRFC )    
     
  16   

Business Segments Review    
     
  17   

International Operations    
     
  30   

Critical Accounting Estimates    
     
  32   

Consolidated Balance Sheet Review    
     
  35   

Liquidity and Dividends    
     
  47   

Commitments and Obligations    
     
  50   

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
     
  51   

Capital    
     
  52   

Risk Management    
     
  56   

Asset/Liability Management    
     
  60   

Business Continuity    
     
  61   

The Bank of New York Historical Earnings per Share and Average Shares Outstanding    
     
  62   

Supplemental Information   Reconciliation of Diluted Earnings per Share-GAAP to Non-GAAP    
     
  63   

Supplemental Information   Rate/Volume Analysis    
     
  64   

Recent Accounting Developments    
     
  65   

Fourth Quarter 2007 Review    
     
  68   

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    
     
  69   

New York Stock Exchange Annual Certification    
     
  71   

Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors    
     
  72   

Glossary    
     
  73   

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
     
  77   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     
  78   

Financial Statements and Notes :    

Consolidated Income Statement     
     
  79   

Consolidated Balance Sheet    
     
  81   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
     
  82   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity    
     
  83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
     
  84   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     
  122   

Directors, Senior Management and Executive Committee   
     
  123   

Performance Graph   
     
  124   

Corporate Information   
     
  Inside back cover    

Table of Contents  

Introduction                On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. ( The Bank of New York ) and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( The Bank of New York Mellon  or  BNY Mellon ), with BNY Mellon being the
surviving entity. For accounting and financial reporting purposes the merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon for a value of $17 billion. The Bank of New York Mellon s financial results for 2007 include six months of the combined
company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. Financial results for periods prior to 2007 reflect legacy The Bank of New York only.      The merger transaction resulted in The Bank of New York shareholders receiving .9434 shares of The Bank of New York Mellon common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding at the closing date of the merger. All
legacy The Bank of New York earnings per share and common stock outstanding amounts in this Annual Report have been restated to reflect this exchange ratio. See page 62 for additional information.      We expect to realize annual expense synergies of $700 million by 2010 and our targeted run rate for revenue synergies is $250-$400 million by 2011. Merger and
integration costs to combine the operations of The Bank of New York and Mellon were approximately $550 million in 2007 with   

approximately $355 million recognized as expense and $195 million recorded as goodwill. Total merger and integration costs are currently expected to be
approximately $1.325 billion.      The Bank of New York Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth
individuals, providing superior asset and wealth management, asset servicing, issuer services, clearing and execution services, and treasury services through a worldwide client-focused team. We have more than $23 trillion in assets under
custody and administration, more than $1.1 trillion in assets under management and service $11 trillion in outstanding debt.      Throughout this Annual
Report, certain measures, which are noted, exclude certain items. We believe the presentation of this information enhances investor understanding of period-to-period results. In addition, they reflect the principal basis on which our management
monitors financial performance.      In this Annual Report, references to  our,   we,   us,  the  company,  the
 Company,  the  Corporation  and similar terms for periods prior to July 1, 2007 refer to The Bank of New York Company, Inc., and references to  our,   we,   us,  the  Company,  the
 Corporation  and similar terms for periods on or after July 1, 2007 refer to BNY Mellon.   
       
   2     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

FINANCIAL SUMMARY           

(a)   
   2007 includes six months of The Bank of New York Mellon s results. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the merger.

(b)   
   Certain amounts have been revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(c)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York earnings per share and all other share-related data are presented in post-merger share count terms. See page 62 for additional information. Also see
page 63 for a reconciliation of reported net income and diluted earnings per share to non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share.      

(d)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      

(e)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      
    Note: FTE denotes presentation on a fully taxable equivalent basis.         
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     3   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations        
  Results of Operations                        
 BNY Mellon s actual results of future operations may differ from those estimated or anticipated in certain forward-looking statements contained herein
for reasons which are discussed below and under the heading  Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors.  When used in this report, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate, 
 confident,   target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may, 
 will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends,  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements in addition to statements specifically identified as forward-looking
statements. In addition, certain business terms used in this document are defined in the Glossary.       
  Overview        Our businesses       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE: BK) is a global leader in providing a comprehensive array of services that enable institutions and individuals to manage and service their financial assets in more than 100 markets worldwide.
We have a long tradition of collaborating with clients to deliver innovative solutions through our core competencies: asset and wealth management, securities servicing and treasury services. Our extensive global client base includes a broad range of
leading financial institutions, corporations, government entities, endowments/foundations and high-net-worth individuals. One of our two principal subsidiaries, The Bank of New York (the  Bank ), founded in 1784, is the oldest bank in the
United States. Our other principal subsidiary, Mellon Bank, N.A. ( Mellon Bank ), was founded in 1869. Both institutions have consistently played a prominent role in the evolution of financial markets worldwide.      BNY Mellon s businesses benefit from the global growth in financial assets. Our success is based on continuing to provide superior client service, strong investment
performance and the highest fiduciary standards. We seek to deploy capital effectively to our businesses to accelerate their long-term growth and deliver top-tier returns to our shareholders.      Our long-term financial goals are focused on achieving superior total returns to shareholders by generating first quartile earnings per share growth over time relative
to a group of 12 peer companies. Key components of this strategy include: providing the best client service versus peers (as measured   
   
 through independent surveys); strong investment performance (relative to investment benchmarks); above median revenue growth (relative to peer companies for
each of our businesses); competitive margins; and positive operating leverage.      Based on the growth opportunities in our businesses, we expect that an
increasing percentage of our revenue and income will be derived outside the U.S.      As measurements of efficiency, over time we expect to increase the level
of fee revenue per employee and increase our pre-tax margins.      We believe that our businesses are compatible with our strategy and goals for the following
reasons:       

Demand for our products and services is driven by market and demographic trends in the markets in which we compete. These trends include growth in worldwide
retirement and financial assets; the growth and concentration of the wealth segments; global growth in assets managed by financial institutions; and the globalization of the investment process.      

Many of our products complement one another.      

We are able to leverage sales, distribution and technology across our businesses benefiting our clients and shareholders.      

The revenue generated by our businesses is principally fee-based.      

Our businesses generally do not require as much capital for growth as traditional banking.         We pursue our long-term financial goals by focusing on organic revenue growth, expense management, superior client service, successful integration of acquisitions and
disciplined capital management.      In 2007, we established a Tier I capital target of 8% as our principal capital measure. We also revised our secondary
targeted capital ratio from 5% of tangible common equity to 5% of adjusted tangible common equity. The change from  tangible common equity  to  adjusted tangible common equity  reflects the impact of the merger with Mellon and
associated goodwill, intangibles and related deferred tax liability. The goodwill and intangibles created in the merger have no economic impact but reduce tangible equity.       How we reported results       All information in this Annual Report is reported on a continuing operations basis, unless
otherwise noted.  

4     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 For a description of discontinued operations, see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Certain amounts are presented on a fully taxable equivalent (FTE) basis. We believe that this presentation allows for comparison of amounts arising from both taxable and
tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. In addition, results for 2007 include six months of the combined company s results, while the results for the first half of
2007 and all prior periods include legacy The Bank of New York only.       
  Summary of financial results        2007       In 2007, we reported consolidated net income of $2.039 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.18 compared with net income of $2.847 billion and diluted earnings per share of $3.94 in 2006. Net income in 2006 included net income from
discontinued operations of $1.371 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.90, primarily from the sale of our Retail Business.      In December of 2007, we
consolidated the assets of our bank-sponsored conduit, Three Rivers Funding Corporation ( TRFC ) which resulted in an extra-ordinary after-tax loss of $180 million or $0.19 per share. See pages 16 and 17 for a further explanation of this
consolidation.      Income from continuing operations before extra-ordinary loss in 2007 was $2.227 billion and diluted earnings per share was $2.38, compared
with $1.476 billion and $2.04 per share in 2006.      Results for 2007 and 2006 include merger and integration expense of $404 million and $106 million
pre-tax, respectively. Excluding these amounts, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $2.64 per share in 2007 and $2.14 per share in 2006.      Performance highlights for 2007 include:       

Asset and wealth management fees totaled $2.060 billion in 2007 compared with $545 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the merger with Mellon as well
as net new business and higher equity market levels;      

Asset servicing revenue was $2.350 billion in 2007 compared with $1.401 billion in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the merger with Mellon, as well as a
higher level of securities lending revenue and increased client activity related to market volatility and net new business;      

Issuer services revenue was $1.560 billion in 2007 compared with $895 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of the corporate trust
business ( the Acquired Corporate Trust Business ) of J.P. Morgan Chase   Co., strong growth in Depositary Receipts revenue, and to a lesser extent, the merger with Mellon;      

Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading activities was $786 million in 2007, compared with $415 million in 2006. The increase reflects the merger with
Mellon, record customer volumes, the favorable impact that resulted from increased currency volatility in the second half of 2007 and a higher valuation of the credit derivatives portfolio;      

Net interest revenue was $2.3 billion in 2007, compared with $1.499 billion in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the merger with Mellon, as well as growth in
client deposits and wider spreads on investment securities;      

Securities losses totaled $201 million in 2007 primarily reflecting a $200 million loss on collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) recorded in the fourth quarter,
and      

Noninterest expense was $8.116 billion in 2007 compared with $4.688 billion in 2006. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon, the purchase of the Acquired
Corporate Trust Business, as well as $404 million pre-tax of merger and integration expense and $319 million pre-tax of intangible amortization expense in 2007, partially offset by the disposition of certain businesses in the BNY ConvergEx
transaction and $175 million of merger-related synergies generated in 2007.          2006       In 2006, we reported net income of $2.847 billion and diluted earnings per share of $3.94 and income from continuing operations of $1.476 billion and diluted  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     5   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 earnings per share of $2.04. This compares to net income of $1.571 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.16 and income from continuing operations of
$1.343 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.84 in 2005. Discontinued operations for 2006 included a net after-tax gain of $1.371 billion, or diluted earnings per share of $1.90.      Adjusting for the impact of merger and integration expense ($106 million pre-tax), diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2006 were $2.14 compared with $1.84 for 2005.      Performance highlights for 2006 include:       

A 13% increase in securities servicing fees;      

A 12% increase in net interest revenue;      

A 9% increase in foreign exchange and other trading activities, and      

A 20% increase in asset and wealth management fees.         On Oct. 1, 2006, we purchased the Acquired Corporate Trust Business from and sold our Retail Business to, JP Morgan Chase.      On October 2,
2006, we completed the transaction resulting in the formation of BNY ConvergEx Group. BNY ConvergEx Group brought together BNY Securities Group s trade execution, commission management, independent research and transition management business
with Eze Castle Software, a leading provider of trade order management and related investment technologies.       2005       In 2005, we reported net income of $1.571 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.16. Income from continuing operations was $1.343 billion, or $1.84 of diluted
earnings per share.      Securities servicing fees were up 10% from 2004. Net interest revenue increased $183 million compared with 2004. Asset and wealth
management fees and foreign exchange and other trading activities also rose from the prior year. We repurchased 5 million net shares in 2005.      During
2005, we formed strategic alliances to penetrate faster-growing markets in France, Germany, the Nordic and Baltic region, Japan, Australia, and India. We also continued to expand our market   
   
 presence in high-growth areas such as hedge fund servicing and collateral management, while extending our capabilities in the rapidly growing area of
alternative investments.       
  Revenue overview       The vast majority of BNY Mellon s revenue consists of fee and other revenue, given our mix of
businesses, with net interest revenue comprising the balance.       Fee and other revenue  represented 80% of total revenue, on a fully taxable equivalent
(FTE) basis in 2007, compared with 78% in 2006.      Since fee and other revenue constitutes the majority of our total revenue, we discuss it in greater detail
by type of fee in the following sections, as well as in the business segments review section beginning on page 17. There we note the specific drivers of such revenue and the factors that caused the various types of fee and other revenue to increase
or decline in 2007 compared with 2006. The business segments discussion combines, for each business segment, all types of fee and other revenue generated directly by that segment as well as fee and other revenue transferred between segments under
revenue transfer agreements, with net interest revenue generated directly by or allocated to that segment. The discussion of revenue by business segment is fundamental to an understanding of BNY Mellon s results as it represents a principal
measure by which management reviews the performance of our businesses compared with performance in prior periods, with our operating plan and with the performance of our competitors.       Net interest revenue  comprised 20% of total revenue, on an FTE basis, in 2007 compared with 22% in 2006. Net interest revenue is generated from a combination of loans, investment securities, interest-bearing
deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements. For more information, see page 11.   
       
   6     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             
  Sector overview        

Sector/Segment   
      
   Primary types of fee revenue    
 
    Asset   Wealth Management sector    
 
        Asset Management
segment   
      
             Asset and wealth management fees from:     Institutional
clients     Mutual funds     Private clients              Performance fees              Distribution and servicing fees    
 
        Wealth Management segment

Wealth management fees from high-net-worth individuals, families, family offices and business enterprises, charitable gift programs and foundations and endowments    
 
        Institutional Services sector    
 
        Asset Servicing segment   
      
             Asset servicing fees, including:     Institutional trust
and custody fees     Broker-dealer services     Securities lending              Foreign exchange    
 
        Issuer Services segment   
      
             Issuer services fees, including:     Corporate
Trust     Depositary receipts     Employee investment plan services     Shareowner services    
 
        Clearing   Execution Services segment   
      
             Clearing and execution services fees, including:     Broker Dealer and
Registered Investment     Advisor services     Electronic trading services    
 
        Treasury Services segment

Treasury services fees, including:     Global payment
services     Working capital solutions     Global markets and institutional banking services              Financing-related fees    
 
        Other segment   
      
             Leasing operations              Corporate Treasury activities              Business exits              Merger and integration expenses    
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     7   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             
  Fee and other revenue        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. All other periods prior to 2007 include legacy The
Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Revised for the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and harmonization adjustments.               Fee and other revenue       Fee and other revenue totaled $9.031 billion in 2007, an increase of $3.692 billion, or 69%,
from $5.339 billion in 2006. The increase in revenue in 2007 was primarily driven by the merger with Mellon, the full-year impact of the acquisition in October 2006 of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and stronger performances in securities
servicing, asset and wealth management, foreign exchange and other trading activities and treasury services. Partially offsetting the growth in fee and other revenue was the disposition of certain execution businesses in the October 2006 BNY
ConvergEx transaction and securities losses.       Securities servicing fees       The increase in securities servicing fees compared to 2006 reflects the merger with Mellon and the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, as well as strong organic growth in securities lending revenue, Depositary Receipts
and broker-dealer services. These results were partially offset by the BNY ConvergEx transaction. See the  Institutional Services Sector  in  Business segments review  for additional details.         
     Asset and wealth management fees       Asset and wealth management fees increased from 2006 primarily due to the merger
with Mellon, net new business and improved equity markets. See the  Asset and Wealth Management Sector  in  Business segments review  for additional details regarding the drivers of asset and wealth management fees. Total assets
under management for the Asset and Wealth management sector were $1.121 trillion at Dec. 31, 2007, up from $142 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon and net new business. Net asset inflows
totaled $55 billion in 2007 resulting from $70 billion of money market inflows partially offset by $15 billion of long-term outflows.      A
large category of Asset and Wealth management fees are from managed mutual funds generated in the Asset Management segment. These fees are based on the daily average net assets of each fund and the basis point management fee paid by that fund.
Managed mutual fund revenue was $637 million in 2007 compared with $10 million in 2006. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon.   
       
   8     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Performance fees       Performance fees, which are reported
in the Asset Management segment, are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance. There is an increase/decrease in incentive expense with a related change
in performance fees. Performance fees totaled $93 million in 2007, an increase of $58 million compared with 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon. As a result of the turbulent market environment in 2007, performance fees were impacted by
a lower outperformance on certain alternative and quantitative strategies.       Foreign exchange and other trading activities       Foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue, which is primarily reported in the Asset Servicing segment, was $786 million in 2007, an increase of $371 million,
or 89%, compared with 2006. The increase was due to the merger with Mellon, record customer volumes due to increased activity of the existing client base, new clients, and the favorable impact that resulted from increased currency volatility in the
second half of 2007. Other trading activities increased reflecting a higher valuation of the credit derivative portfolio caused by the widening of credit spreads.       Treasury services       Treasury services, which is primarily reported in the Treasury services segment, includes fees related to funds
transfer, cash management, and liquidity management. Treasury services fees increased $139 million from 2006 reflecting the merger with Mellon, as well as higher client volumes and net new business in the global payments business, partially offset
by customers paying with compensating balances in lieu of fees. Earnings on compensating balance deposits are recognized in net interest revenue.       Financing-related fees       Financing-related fees, which are primarily reported in the Treasury Services segment, include capital markets
fees, loan commitment fees and credit-related trade fees.      Financing-related fees decreased $34 million from 2006 reflecting a lower level of
credit-related activities consistent with our strategic direction.       Distribution and servicing fees       Distribution and servicing fees earned from mutual funds are primarily based on average assets in the   
   
 funds and the sales of funds managed or administered by BNY Mellon and are primarily reported in the Asset Management segment. These fees, which include
12b-1 fees, fluctuate with the overall level of net sales, the relative mix of sales between share classes and the funds  market values.      The $206
million increase in distribution and servicing fee revenue in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily reflects the merger with Mellon, as well as higher sales volumes and higher market values of mutual funds. The impact of these fees on income in any one
period can be more than offset by distribution and servicing expense paid to other financial intermediaries to cover their costs for distribution and servicing of mutual funds. Distribution and servicing expense is recorded as noninterest expense on
the income statement.       Investment income       Investment
income, which is primarily reported in the Other and Asset Management segments, includes the gains and losses on private equity investments and seed capital investments, income from insurance contracts, and lease residual gains and losses. The
decline compared to prior periods principally reflects lower private equity investment income as well as the lower market value of seed capital investments due to the market environment. Private equity investment income was $67 million in 2007,
down from $97 million in 2006. This decrease was partially offset by higher returns from insurance contracts and the merger with Mellon.       Securities gains (losses)       The $201 million securities loss in 2007 primarily reflects a $200 million loss on CDOs recorded in the fourth
quarter. Based on deteriorating conditions in the U.S. housing market, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $200 million ($118 million after-tax) for other than temporary impairment related to these securities. Within our securities available for sale
portfolio, we held $179 million (par value $379 million) of CDOs that contained subprime exposure at Dec. 31, 2007.       Other revenue       Other revenue is comprised of expense reimbursements from joint ventures, merchant card fees, asset-related gains, equity investment income, net economic value payments
and other transactions. Expense reimbursements from joint ventures relate to expenses incurred by BNY Mellon on behalf of joint  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     9   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
      
 ventures. Asset-related gains (losses) include loan and real estate dispositions. Equity investment income primarily reflects our proportionate share of the
income from our investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited. Other transactions primarily include low-income housing, other investments and various miscellaneous revenues. The breakdown among these categories is shown in the following table:       
    Other revenue increased from 2006 reflecting the merger with Mellon, higher net economic value payments, a
settlement received for early termination of a contract that occurred in 2005 associated with the clearing business ($28 million) and revenue related to transitional services agreements ($15 million). Net economic value payments were $41
million in 2007 and $23 million in 2006. These payments were primarily related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, for international customers whose net revenue had not previously been transferred. Upon conversion, revenue from the Acquired
Corporate Trust Business clients was reflected in Issuer Services fees and net interest revenue. Asset-related gains in 2006 include a pre-tax gain of $35 million related to   
   
 the conversion of our New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) seats into cash and shares of NYSE Group, Inc. common stock, some of which were sold.
      2006 compared with 2005       The increase in fee and
other revenue in 2006 versus 2005 primarily reflected stronger performance in securities servicing, asset and wealth management fees, performance fees, foreign exchange and other trading activities as well as higher level of investment income and
other income. Securities servicing fee growth in 2006 reflected the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and strong organic growth in issuer services, investor services and broker-dealer services. Growth in these areas was partly offset by disposition
of certain execution businesses in the BNY ConvergEx transaction and weaker results in our clearing and remaining domestic execution business. Asset and wealth management fees increased over 2005 primarily resulting from acquisitions. The increase
in performance fees reflected improved performance fees at Ivy Asset Management Corp. ( Ivy ). Foreign exchange and other trading activities grew strongly in 2006 versus 2005 reflecting higher customer volumes driven by cross-border
investment flows, greater business from existing clients, and favorable market conditions in the first half of 2006. Other trading revenues increased in 2006 as a result of higher fixed income activities partially offset by lower trading revenue at
Pershing Group LLC ( Pershing ). Investment income in 2006 included a realized gain of $11 million from the sale of a private equity investment. The increase in other revenue reflects the gain on the sale of NYSE seats and net economic
value payments.   
       
   10     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

Net interest revenue        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. All other periods reflect legacy The Bank of New
York only.      

(b)   
   Calculated on a continuing operations basis even though the balance sheet, in accordance with GAAP, is not restated for discontinued operations.          bp - basis points            The increase in net interest revenue from 2006
principally reflects the merger with Mellon, as well as a higher level of average interest-earning assets driven by growth in client deposits, as well as higher deposit balances associated with the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, wider spreads on
investment securities and lower bond premium amortization due to slowing prepayments. This growth was partially offset by the required recalculation of the yield on leverage leases under FSP-FAS 13-2, for changes to New York state tax rates
resulting from the merger with Mellon ($22 million). We received net economic value payments on the Acquired Corporate Trust Business deposits post-acquisition but prior to the transfer of the deposits to us. These payments, which totaled $41
million in 2007 and $23 million in 2006, are recorded in Other revenue.      Average interest-earning assets were $111.2 billion in 2007, compared with $75.6
billion in 2006 and $67.7 billion in 2005. The increase in 2007 from 2006 reflects the merger with Mellon, the impact of higher deposits related to the Acquired Corporate Trust   
   
 Business, as well as a higher level of interest and noninterest-bearing deposits driven by higher client activity across our businesses. Average loans were
$41.5 billion in 2007, compared with $33.6 billion in 2006 and $32.1 billion in 2005. Average securities were $37.4 billion in 2007, up from $25.9 billion in 2006 and $24.3 billion in 2005.      The net interest margin was 2.08% in 2007 compared with 2.01% in 2006 and 2.02% in 2005. The increase in the net interest margin from 2006 principally reflects the
merger with Mellon as well as a higher average level of noninterest-bearing deposits, wider spreads on investment securities and lower bond premium amortization due to slowing prepayments.       2006 compared with 2005       The increase in net interest revenue in
2006 compared to 2005 primarily reflects the impact of higher deposit balances related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, higher amounts of interest-earning assets and interest-free balances, as well as the higher value of interest-free
balances in a rising rate environment.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     11   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET   AVERAGE BALANCES AND INTEREST YIELDS/RATES         (a)                      

(a)   
   Average balances and rates have been impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(b)   
   Average balances and rates for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(c)   
   Includes fees of $32 million in 2007. Nonaccrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is included in interest.

(d)   
   Includes Cayman Islands branch offices.      

(e)   
   The tax equivalent adjustment was $12 million in 2007 and is based on the federal statutory tax rate (35%) and applicable state and local taxes.
           
   12     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)   
   Average balances and rates have been impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(b)   
   Includes fees of $42 million in 2006 and $66 million in 2005. Nonaccrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is
included in interest.      

(c)   
   Includes Cayman Islands branch office.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     13   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

Noninterest expense        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. All other periods reflect legacy The Bank of New
York only.              Total noninterest expense, excluding intangible amortization and merger and integration expense, was $7.393 billion in 2007, an increase of $2.887 billion or 64% compared
with 2006. The merger with Mellon, the purchase of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the disposition of certain execution businesses in the BNY ConvergEx transaction significantly impacted comparisons of 2007 to 2006. The net impact of these
transactions increased nearly all expense categories. Noninterest expense for 2007 also includes the pre-tax write-off of the value of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager that was disposed of in 2006 ($32 million). Noninterest
expense reflects $175 million in expense synergies associated with the merger with Mellon in 2007. We expect to realize annual expense synergies of $700 million by 2010.      The increase in merger and integration expense and intangible amortization expense compared to 2006 resulted from the merger with Mellon, partially offset by a decrease in merger and integration expense related to the
Acquired Corporate Trust Business.   
   
 Total merger and integration costs associated with the Mellon merger are currently expected to be approximately $1.325 billion.       Staff expense       Given our mix of fee-based businesses, which are
staffed with high quality professionals, staff expense comprised approximately 56% of total noninterest expense, excluding merger and integration and intangible amortization expense in 2007.      Staff expense is comprised of:       

compensation expense, which includes:      

base salary expense, primarily driven by headcount;      

the cost of temporary help and overtime, and      

severance expense;      

incentive expense, which includes:      

additional compensation earned under a wide range of sales commission plans and incentive plans designed to reward a      
       
   14     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

combination of individual, business unit and corporate performance goals; as well as      

stock-based compensation expense, and      

employee benefit expense, primarily medical benefits, payroll taxes, pension and other retirement benefits.         The increase in compensation, incentive and employee benefits expense reflects a net increase in headcount associated with the Mellon merger, the Acquired Corporate
Trust Business, and organic business growth, partially offset by the BNY ConvergEx transaction.       Non-staff expense       Non-staff expense includes certain expenses that vary with the levels of business activity and levels of expensed business investments, fixed infrastructure costs and
expenses associated with corporate activities related to technology, compliance, productivity initiatives and corporate development.      Non-staff expense,
excluding merger and integration expense and intangible amortization expense, totaled $3.273 billion in 2007 compared with $1.866 billion in 2006. Non-staff expense was impacted by the merger with Mellon, the Acquired Corporate Trust
Business, and the BNY ConvergEX transaction, and also included the following activity:       

A $251 million increase in distribution and servicing expense. Distribution and servicing expense represents amounts paid to other financial intermediaries to
cover their costs for distribution (marketing support, administration and record keeping) and servicing of mutual funds. Generally, increases in distribution and servicing expense reflect higher net sales. Distribution and servicing expense in any
one year is not expected to be fully recovered by higher distribution and service revenue; rather it contributes to future growth in mutual fund management revenue reflecting the growth in mutual fund assets generated through certain distribution
channels;      

An increase in professional, legal and other purchased services, business development, furniture and equipment, software and communications expense resulting from
business growth and strategic initiatives;      

An increase in sub-custodian expenses reflecting increased asset values, higher transaction volumes of assets under custody and increased depositary receipts
activity, and      

An increase in other expense reflecting organic business growth, the write-off of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager ($32 million pre-tax), and a $17
million pre-tax loss related to Structured Investment Vehicle ( SIV ) securities purchased from a commingled Net Asset Value (NAV) fund, which is managed to the specifications of a money market fund.         In 2007, we incurred $355 million of merger and integration expenses related to the merger with Mellon, comprised of the following:       

Personnel related includes severance, retention, relocation expenses, accelerated vesting of stock options and restricted stock expense ($122 million);

Integration/conversion costs including consulting, system conversions and staff ($136 million);      

Transaction costs includes investment banker and legal fees, and foundation funding ($67 million), and      

One-time costs includes facilities related costs, asset write-offs, vendor contract modifications, rebranding and net gain (loss) on disposals ($30 million).
        We also incurred $49 million of merger and integration expense associated with the Acquired Corporate Trust Business in 2007.
     Amortization of intangible assets increased to $319 million in 2007 compared with $76 million in 2006, primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon.
      2006 compared with 2005       Total noninterest expense
increased in 2006 compared with 2005 reflecting increased costs associated with new business, acquisitions, higher pension costs, as well as merger and integration costs. Staff expense was up in 2006 compared with 2005, reflecting higher staff
levels tied to new businesses, acquisitions, higher incentive compensation and increased temporary help, partially offset by the BNY ConvergeEx transaction. Employee benefits expense increased compared with 2005, reflecting acquisitions and expenses
for incentive payments and pensions. Subcustodian expenses increased in 2006 compared with 2005 reflecting increased asset values and transaction volumes of assets under custody, and increased activity in Depositary Receipts. Professional, legal and
other purchased services increased, reflecting the impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     15   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Merger and integration expenses in 2006 primarily included a loss in connection with the restructuring of our investment portfolio and employee-related
costs, including severance. The swap of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business for the Retail Business resulted in a more liability-sensitive balance sheet because corporate trust liabilities reprice more quickly than retail deposits. We sold $5.5
billion of investment securities in the third quarter of 2006 to adjust our interest rate sensitivity.       
  Income taxes       On a continuing operations basis, the effective tax rate for 2007 was 31.0%, compared to 32.0% for 2006 and
32.1% for 2005. The lower effective tax rate in 2007 compared with 2006 reflects the benefit of higher foreign tax credits and lower state and local taxes, partially offset by the phase out of the benefits received from synthetic fuel credits. The
slight decrease in the effective tax rate in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily reflected the increased benefit from foreign operations offset by lower tax-exempt income and lower credits from low-income housing.      The projected effective tax rate for 2008, excluding merger and integration expense, is expected to range between 33.75% and 34.25%. The projected increase in the
effective tax rate over 2007 is primarily attributable to the loss of synthetic fuel credits, higher expected pre-tax income, and the adverse effect of the merger with Mellon on New York state and local income taxes.      We made synthetic fuel and low-income housing (Sections 29 and 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, respectively) investments that generate tax credits, which have the
effect of reducing our tax expense. We invested in leveraged leases which, through accelerated depreciation, postpone the payment of taxes to future years. For financial statement purposes, deferred taxes are recorded as a liability for future
payment.      In 2007, our effective tax rate benefited from synthetic fuel tax credits. These credits are related to investments that produce alternative fuel
from coal by-products and were impacted by the price of oil. To manage our exposure in 2007 to the risk of increases in oil prices that could have reduced synthetic fuel tax credits, we entered into an option contract covering a specified number of
barrels of oil that settled at the end of 2007. The option contract economically hedges a portion of our projected 2007 synthetic fuel tax credit benefit. The contract did not qualify for hedge   
   
 accounting and, as a result, changes in the fair value of the option were recorded in trading income. The synthetic fuel program terminated at the end of
2007.       
  Extraordinary (loss) - Consolidation of Three Rivers Funding Corporation ( TRFC )       On Dec. 31, 2007, we called the
first loss notes of TRFC, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of TRFC. The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary (loss) (non-cash accounting charge) of $180 million after-tax, or $0.19 per
share, representing the mark to market discount from par associated with spread widening for the assets in TRFC.      Strategically TRFC was not core to our
focus on high growth global opportunities in Asset Management and Securities Servicing; it had an immaterial impact on our consolidated financial results, generating only $4 million of fee revenue in 2007. Furthermore, the continuing disruption in
the capital markets negatively impacted TRFC funding costs and related returns, which was in sharp contrast to our funding costs and balance sheet strength. Consolidation improves the profitability of this portfolio by enabling use of cheaper
funding generated by BNY Mellon as opposed to costlier funding generated by TRFC.      In addition to the extraordinary (loss), the size of the Dec. 31,
2007 balance sheet increased by the full amount of third party commercial paper funding previously issued by TRFC of approximately $4.0 billion. At Dec. 31, 2007, we held $136 million of TRFC s commercial paper, which was eliminated upon
consolidation.      As a result of our excess liquidity, we were able to eliminate the TRFC commercial paper in the first quarter of 2008. Eliminating the TRFC
commercial paper is expected to result in an improvement in our adjusted tangible common equity ratio of approximately 10 basis points during the first quarter of 2008.      Also prospectively, the $180 million after-tax mark to market on the TRFC assets is expected to be accreted into income over the remaining lives of the assets, which are currently projected to average approximately
4-5 years, dependent upon the credit quality of the assets.      The fair value of TRFC s asset-backed securities portfolio, which is included in our
securities available for sale portfolio, totaled approximately $3.5 billion at  

16     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Dec. 31, 2007. Below are TRFC s asset and mortgage-backed securities by credit rating received from external rating agencies.       

(a)   
   Includes $802 million wrapped with monoline insurance.         In
addition to these securities, TRFC has approximately $400 million of securitizations of client receivables that are structured to meet a credit rating of A. These securitizations are recorded as commercial loans in the loan portfolio.       
  Business segments review       We have an internal information system that produces performance data for our seven business
segments along product and service lines.       Business segments accounting principles       Our segment data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for consolidated financial reporting. These measurement principles are
designed so that reported results of the segments will track their economic performance.      The accounting policies of the business segments are the same as
those described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements except that segment results are subject to restatement whenever improvements are made in the measurement principles or when organizational changes are made. Net interest revenue
differs from the amounts shown in the Consolidated Income Statement because amounts presented in the Business Segments are on an FTE basis. In 2007, in connection with the merger with Mellon, business segment reporting was realigned to reflect the
new business structure of the combined company. In addition, several allocation methodologies were also revised to achieve greater harmonization with Mellon s methodologies. Segment   
   
 data for 2006 and 2005 has been restated to reflect these revisions. The operations of acquired businesses are integrated with the existing business segments
soon after most acquisitions are completed. As a result of the integration of staff support functions, management of customer relationships, operating processes and the financial impact of funding the acquisitions, we cannot precisely determine the
impact of acquisitions on income before taxes and therefore do not report it.      We provide segment data for seven segments, with certain segments combined
into sector groupings as shown below:       

Asset and Wealth Management Sector      

Asset Management segment      

Wealth Management segment      

Institutional Services Sector      

Asset Servicing segment      

Issuer Services segment      

Clearing and Execution Services segment      

Treasury Services segment      

Other segment         Business segment information is
reported on a continuing operations basis for all periods presented. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.      The results of our business segments are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis:       

Revenue amounts reflect fee and other revenue generated by each segment, as well as fee and other revenue transferred between segments under revenue transfer
agreements.      

Revenues and expenses associated with specific client bases are included in those segments. For example, foreign exchange activity associated with clients using
custody products is allocated to the Asset Servicing segment within the Institutional Services Sector.      

Balance sheet assets and liabilities and their related income or expense are specifically assigned to each segment. Segments with a net liability position have also
been allocated assets from the securities portfolio.      

Net interest revenue is allocated to segments based on the yields on the assets and liabilities generated by each segment. We employ a funds transfer pricing system
that matches funds with  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     17   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

the specific assets and liabilities of each segment based on their interest sensitivity and maturity characteristics.      

The measure of revenues and profit or loss by a segment has been adjusted to present segment data on an FTE basis.      

The provision for credit losses is allocated to segments based on changes in each segment s credit risk during the period. Previously, the provision for credit
losses was based on management s judgment as to average credit losses that would have been incurred in the      

operations of the segment over a credit cycle of a period of years.      

Support and other indirect expenses are allocated to segments based on internally-developed methodologies.      

Goodwill and intangible assets are reflected within individual business segments.      

The operations of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business are included only from Oct. 1, 2006, the date on which it was acquired.      

The operations of Mellon are included only from July 1, 2007, the effective date of the merger.      

(a)   
   Period end.              The merger with Mellon in July 2007, the
acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the BNY ConvergEx transaction in October 2006, had a considerable impact on the business segment results in 2007 compared with 2006. The merger with Mellon significantly impacted the Asset
Management, Wealth Management and the Asset Servicing segments and, to a lesser extent, the Issuer Services, Treasury Services and the Other segments. The Acquired Corporate Trust Business primarily impacted the Issuer Services segment. The BNY
ConvergEx transaction primarily impacted the Clearing and Execution Services segment. The volatile market environment also impacted the business segments in 2007, as reflected by a strong year in securities lending, foreign exchange and
other trading activities, as well as clearing and execution revenue. The growth in clearing and execution revenue was offset by the disposition of certain businesses in the BNY ConvergEx transaction. Depositary Receipts were also

strong in 2007, reflecting business growth and corporate actions. Non-program equity trading volumes increased 17% in 2007 compared with 2006. In addition,
average daily U.S. fixed-income trading volume was up 13%. Total debt issuance decreased 6% in 2007 compared with 2006. The issuance of global collateralized debt obligations decreased 12% compared with 2006.      The changes in the value of market indices impact fee revenue in the Asset and Wealth Management segments and our securities servicing businesses. Using the S P
500 as a proxy for the equity markets, we estimate that a 100 point change in the value of the S P 500, sustained for one year, impacts fee revenue by approximately 1% and fully diluted EPS on a continuing operations basis by $0.05 per
share. The consolidating schedules below show the contribution of our segments to our overall profitability.   
       
   18     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)    
    Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only.       

(b)    
    Income before taxes divided by total revenue.       

(a)   
   Income before taxed divided by total revenue.      

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     19   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Asset and Wealth Management Sector
      Asset and Wealth Management fee revenue is dependent on the overall level and mix of assets under management ( AUM ) and the management fees
expressed in basis points (one-hundredth of one percent) charged for managing those assets. Assets under management were $1.121 trillion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $142 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. The year-over-year increase
in AUM primarily reflects the merger with Mellon and continued growth across asset classes and strategies.      Performance fees are also earned in the Asset
and Wealth Management sector. These fees are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance.      The overall level of assets under management for a given period is determined by:       

the beginning level of assets under management;      

the net flows of new assets during the period resulting from new business wins and existing client enrichments reduced by losses and withdrawals; and

the impact of market price appreciation or depreciation, the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures and foreign exchange rates.
     
    These components are
shown in the changes in market value of assets under management table below. The mix of assets under management is determined principally by client asset allocation decisions among equities, fixed income, alternative investments and overlay and
money markets. The trend of this mix is shown in the assets under management at period end, by product type, table below.      Managed equity assets typically
generate higher percentage fees than money market and fixed-income assets. Also, actively managed assets typically generate higher management fees than indexed or passively managed assets of the same type.      Management fees are typically subject to fee schedules based on the overall level of assets managed for a single client or by individual asset class and style. This is
most prevalent for institutional assets where amounts we manage for individual clients are typically large.      A key driver of organic growth in asset and
wealth management fees is the amount of net new business flows of assets under management. Overall market conditions are also key drivers with a key long-term economic driver being the growth rate of financial assets as measured by the U.S. Federal
Reserve. This measure encompasses both net flows and market appreciation or depreciation in the U.S. markets overall.   

20     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

(a)   
   Excludes $18 bilion of net flows from Mellon during the first six months of 2007.      

(b)   
   Includes the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.         At Dec.
31, 2007, the investment portfolio of money market funds under management included approximately $2.9 billion of senior notes issued by structured investment vehicles ( SIVs ), which represented 1% of the portfolio. During January and
February of 2008, $1.2 billion of these securities matured. At February 27, 2008, the remaining $1.7 billion balance is to bank-sponsored SIVs and all sponsors have agreed to support the notes which are scheduled to mature in the first half of
2008.         
     Asset Management segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Results for 2007 exclude a pre-tax charge ($32 million) related to the write-off of the value of the remaining interest in a legacy Mellon hedge fund manager that was disposed of
in 2006.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     21   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Business description       BNY Mellon Asset Management is the
umbrella organization for all of our affiliated investment management firms and is responsible, through various subsidiaries, for U.S. and non-U.S. retail, intermediary and institutional distribution of investment management and related services.
The investment management firms offer a broad range of equity, fixed income, cash and alternative/overlay products. In addition to the investment subsidiaries, BNY Mellon Asset Management consists of BNY Mellon Asset Management International
(formerly Mellon Global Investments), which is responsible for the distribution of investment management products internationally and the Dreyfus Corporation which is responsible for U.S. distribution of retail mutual funds, separate accounts and
annuities.      We are the 13   th    largest global asset manager; and the 9   th    largest U.S. asset manager; and the 7   th    largest asset manager in Europe. We are also a top five tax-exempt, institutional U.S. asset manager.      The results of the Asset Management segment are mainly driven by the period-end and average levels of assets managed as well as the mix of those assets, as shown in the table on page 20. Results for this segment are
also impacted by sales of fee-based products such as fixed and variable annuities and separately managed accounts. Expenses in this segment are mainly driven by staffing costs, incentives, distribution and servicing expense, and product distribution
costs.       Review of financial results       Income before
taxes was $487 million in 2007 compared with $135 million in 2006. Income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization) was $635 million in 2007 compared with $150 million in 2006. Results in 2007 included a $32 million charge related to the
write-off of the value of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager that was disposed of in 2006. Excluding this charge, income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization) was $667 million in 2007.      Fee and other revenue was $1.865 billion in 2007 compared with $357 million in 2006 primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon, net new business and improved
equity markets. Performance fees increased $58 million in 2007 reflecting fees received on funds acquired in the merger with Mellon. The increase in distribution and servicing fees reflect the   
   
 merger with Mellon. See the  Fee and Other Revenue  section for a discussion of distribution and servicing fees. Other fee revenue decreased,
principally reflecting the lower market value of seed capital investments due to the market environment in 2007.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible
amortization) was $1.244 billion in 2007, compared with $222 million in 2006, primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon and higher incentive compensation, temporary labor, technology, legal expenses and the write-off of the remaining interest in a
hedge fund manager.       2006 compared with 2005       Income
before taxes was $135 million in 2006, compared with $127 million in 2005. Income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization) was $150 million in 2006 compared with $130 million in 2005. Fee and other revenue increased $95 million,
primarily due to a rise in equity market levels and higher performance fees. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $66 million in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily due to acquisitions, higher staff costs, incentive
compensation and technology costs.       Wealth Management segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      
       
   22     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Business description       In the Wealth Management segment, we offer a full array of investment management, wealth and estate planning and
private banking and finance solutions to help clients protect, grow and transfer their wealth. Clients include predominantly high-net-worth individuals, families, family offices and business enterprises, charitable gift programs and endowments and
foundations. BNY Mellon Wealth Management is a top ten U.S. wealth manager with $170 billion in client assets. We serve our clients through an expansive network of 80 offices globally. The activities of Mellon 1   st    Business Bank, N.A. and Mellon United National Bank are included in this segment.      The
results of the Wealth Management segment are driven by the level and mix of assets managed and custodied and the level of activity in client accounts.      Net
interest revenue is determined by the level of interest spread between loans and deposits. Expenses of this segment are driven mainly by staff expense in the investment management, sales, service and support groups.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $156 million in
2007 compared with $50 million in 2006. Income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization) was $198 million in 2007 compared with $50 million in 2006.      Total fee and other revenue was $436 million in 2007 compared with $198 million in 2006. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon, organic growth, with record net new business and market
performance.      Net interest revenue increased $139 million compared with 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon and increased deposit levels.   
     
    Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $227 million compared with 2006, primarily reflecting the merger with Mellon, as well as expenses associated with new distribution channels.
     Total client assets were $170 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $59 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. The increase resulted from the merger with Mellon, new
business, enrichments and higher market levels in 2007.       2006 compared with 2005       Income before taxes was $50 million in 2006 compared with $61 million in 2005. Excluding intangible amortization, income before taxes decreased $11 million. Fee and other revenue increased $6 million due to organic
growth and strong market performance. Net interest revenue increased $10 million as a result of wider spreads given higher interest rates. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $29 million due to higher staff and
technology costs.       Institutional Services Sector       As
of Dec. 31, 2007, our assets under custody and administration increased to $23.1 trillion, from $15.5 trillion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $11.4 trillion at Dec 31, 2005. The increase in assets under custody and administration
compared with 2006 primarily reflects the merger with Mellon, growth in the custody business, rising asset prices and the impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business. Equity securities comprised 32% and fixed-income securities were 68% of the
assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with 33% equity securities and 67% fixed-income securities at Dec. 31, 2006. Assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2007 consisted of assets related to the
custody, mutual funds, and corporate trust businesses of $18.3 trillion, broker-dealer services assets of $2.5 trillion, and all other assets of $2.3 trillion.   

(a)   
   Revised for Acquired Corporate Trust Business and harmonization adjustments.      

(b)   
   Includes the assets under custody or administration of CIBC Mellon Global Securities Services, a joint venture between BNY Mellon and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce of
$989 billion at Dec. 31, 2007.      

(c)   
   Represents the total amount of securities on loan, both cash and non-cash managed by the Asset Servicing segment.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     23   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Asset Servicing segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.          Business description  
     The Asset Servicing segment includes global custody, global fund services, securities lending, global liquidity services, outsourcing, government
securities clearance, collateral management and credit-related services and other linked revenues, principally foreign exchange. Clients include corporate and public retirement funds, foundations and endowments and global financial institutions
including banks, broker-dealers, investment managers, insurance companies and mutual funds.      The results of the Asset Servicing segment are driven by a
number of factors which include the level of transactional activity and the extent of services provided including custody, accounting, fund administration, daily valuations, performance measurement and risk analytics, securities lending and

investment manager backoffice outsourcing, as well as the market value of assets under administration and custody. Market interest rates impact both
securities lending revenue and the earnings on client cash balances. Broker-dealer fees depend on the level of activity in the fixed income markets and the financing needs of customers, which are typically higher when the equity and fixed-income
markets are active. Also, the adoption of tri-party repo arrangements continue to remain a key revenue driver in broker-dealer services. Foreign exchange trading revenues are influenced by the volume of client transactions and the spread realized on
these transactions, market volatility in major currencies, the level of cross-border      assets held in custody for clients, the level and nature of underlying
cross-border investment and other transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients. Segment expenses are principally driven by staffing levels and technology investments necessary to process transaction volumes. Fees paid to
subcustodians are driven by market values of global assets and related transaction volumes.      We are one of the leading securities servicing providers
globally with a total of $23.1 trillion of assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2007. We are one of the largest mutual fund custodians for U.S. funds and one of the largest providers of fund services in the world, servicing
funds with over $4.7 trillion in total assets. We also service more than 45% of the exchange-traded funds in the U.S. Fifty-five percent of the top 20 endowments and 42% of the top 50 endowments are BNY Mellon Asset Servicing clients.      We are a leading custodian in the U.K. and service 35% of U.K. pensions. In securities lending, we are one of the largest lenders of U.S. Treasury securities and
depositary receipts and service a lending pool of more than $3 trillion in 30 markets around the world. We are the largest global provider of performance analytics and a leading offshore fund administrator.      Our broker dealer service business is a leader in global clearance, clearing equity and fixed income transactions in more than 100 markets. We clear approximately
50% of the transactions in U.S. Government securities. With $1.6 trillion in tri-party balances worldwide, we are a leading collateral management agent.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $1.168 billion in 2007 compared with $558 million in 2006.

24     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Total fee and other revenue increased $1.216 billion in 2007 compared with 2006 driven by the merger with Mellon, increased transaction volumes related
to market volatility, new business, new assets from existing clients and organic growth across all business products, especially global custody, domestic and international mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, hedge fund servicing and collateral
management. European asset servicing continues to gain growth across all products, also reflective of significant cross-border investment interest and capital flow. Securities lending revenue increased $195 million from 2006. The increase from
2006 resulted from the merger with Mellon, higher loan balances in 2007 compared with 2006, as well as a significant widening in spreads reflecting the volatile market environment in the second half of 2007.      The growth in global collateral management was due to new product introduction, new business wins and an industry trend towards centralized collateralized fundings. We
handle approximately $1.6 trillion of financing for our broker-dealer clients daily through collateralized financing agreements, up approximately 23% from a year ago.      Foreign exchange and other trading activity increased $296 million compared with 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon, record customer volumes due to increased activity of our existing client base and the
acquisition of new clients, as well as elevated foreign currency volatility in the second half of 2007. Net interest revenue increased $245 million compared with 2006, primarily driven by the merger with Mellon, deposit growth and improved
spreads.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $849 million compared with 2006 reflecting the merger with Mellon, higher
staff expense in support of new business, increased sub-custodian expenses related to higher asset levels, higher joint venture pass-thru payments, higher expenses in support of growth initiatives and a $17 million pre-tax loss related to the
purchase of SIV securities from a commingled NAV fund ( CNAV Fund ), which is managed by securities lending. The CNAV Fund is managed to the specifications of a money market fund.      A capital support agreement has been executed for the same CNAV Fund. The fund includes covered SIV securities of Whistle Jacket Capital/White Pine Finance, LLC totaling
$185 million (the  Covered Securities ). Under the agreement we will provide capital in specified circumstances to the fund for a period of four months, subject to an aggregate   
   
 maximum of $55.5 million. Upon the sale or other disposition of a Covered Security, we are required to contribute capital that is the least of the following
amounts: (i) the amount, if any, by which the amortized cost of a Covered Security exceeds the amount realized from the sale or other disposition of the Covered Security; (ii) the amount, if any, necessary to restore the net asset value per share of
the fund to a specified threshold amount, or (iii) the remaining amount of the aggregate capital contribution limit, taking into account all prior contributions. We will not receive any consideration from the fund for the contributed capital, if
any, under the agreement. As a result of entering into the capital support agreement, we will record an initial non-cash charge equal to the estimated fair value of the agreement, with future changes recorded in earnings during the period of change
in fair value. The total expense that will be recorded over the term of the agreement will equal the amount of total capital actually contributed to the fund.      At Dec. 31, 2007, the total of all CNAV Funds which are managed by securities lending had a balance of $150 billion and included $8.9 billion of senior notes issued by SIV s, all of which were rated AAA. A significant majority of these
SIV s are bank sponsored where the bank has committed to support the SIV.      We continue to monitor exposure to SIV senior note investments in the CNAV
Funds we manage. On a case by case basis, depending on future circumstances, we could choose to purchase SIV notes from these funds and/or enter into further capital support agreements with the funds.       2006 compared with 2005       Income before taxes increased $51 million
in 2006 compared with 2005. Total fee and other revenue in this segment increased 10% in 2006 compared with 2005 primarily due to market volatility as well as particularly strong growth in broker-dealer services. Securities lending fees increased in
2006 compared with 2005 as strong growth in average loan volumes was partly offset by lower spreads. Revenues from foreign exchange trading were also up significantly, reflecting higher customer volumes driven by cross-border investment flows and
greater business from existing clients. Net interest revenue increased $55 million in 2006 compared with 2005, reflecting increased deposit flows. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $149 million compared with 2005,
reflecting higher staff expense, technology cost and sub-custodian expenses.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     25   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Issuer Services segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.          Business description  
     The Issuer Services segment provides a diverse array of products and services to fixed income and equity issuers, including corporations and shareholders,
corporate trust, depositary receipts, employee investment plan services, and shareowner services.      As the world s largest trustee, we provide diverse
services for corporate, municipal, structured, and international debt issuers. We serve as trustee or agent for approximately 90,000 clients with $11 trillion in outstanding debt securities from offices in 54 locations around the
world, including 18 non-U.S. locations. We serve as the depositary for more than 1,300 American and global depositary receipt programs, with a 65% market share, acting in partnership with leading companies from 63 countries. In addition to its
top-ranked stock transfer agency services, BNY Mellon Shareowner Services offers a comprehensive suite of equity solutions ranging from record keeping and corporate actions processing, demutualizations, direct investment, dividend reinvestment,
proxy solicitation and employee stock plan administration.         
    Fee revenue in the issuer services segment depends on:

the volume of issuance of fixed income securities;      

depositary receipts issuance and cancellation volume;      

corporate actions impacting depositary receipts; and      

transfer agency and corporate action volumes.         Expenses in the Issuer Services segment are driven by staff, equipment, and space required to support the services provided by the segment.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was up 77% to $1.068 billion in 2007 from $604 million in 2006.      Total fee and other revenue increased $699 million in 2007 compared with 2006. Issuer services fees continued to exhibit strong growth compared with last year. The
acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the merger with Mellon significantly impacted comparisons of 2007 to 2006. Issuer services fees increased reflecting higher Depositary Receipts resulting from higher servicing and dividend
fees. Depositary Receipts reflect the continued globalization of the world s equity portfolios which drove higher levels of depositary receipts trading and investment in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The growth in Corporate Trust resulted
from the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, while growth in Shareowner Services was due to the merger with Mellon.      Other fee revenue increased $34 million
compared with 2006 reflecting the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and the merger with Mellon.      Net interest revenue increased $309 million in 2007
compared with 2006, primarily reflecting the impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business as well as higher deposits in Shareowner Services. Deposit growth was also impacted by new business and increased client volumes, as well as the merger with
Mellon. Average deposits were $21.3 billion in 2007, compared with $7.2 billion in 2006.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased
$487 million in 2007 compared with 2006 reflecting the impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, the merger with Mellon, and expenses associated with revenue growth in Depositary Receipts and Shareowner Services.   
       
   26     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              2006 compared with 2005       Income before taxes increased $194 million in 2006 compared with 2005. Total fee and other revenue in this segment increased $278 million in 2006 compared with 2005,
primarily reflecting strong growth in Depositary Receipts and Corporate Trust as well as the results of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business. Net interest revenue increased $102 million compared with 2005, reflecting the positive impact of rising
rates on spreads and increased deposit levels generated by the growth in the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible
amortization) increased $170 million compared with 2005, reflecting the impact of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and expenses associated with revenue growth in Depositary Receipts and Corporate Trust. Growth in Depositary Receipts drove
sub-custodian expense higher in 2006. Included in 2006 expense was $22 million of transition services expense associated with the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.       Clearing   Execution Services segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Results for 2007 exclude the pre-tax benefit ($27 million) of the negotiated settlement received for the early termination of a contract that occurred in 2005.
           
     Business description       Our Clearing   Execution Services
segment consists of the Pershing clearing business, a 35.4% equity interest in BNY ConvergEx Group, and the B-Trade and G-Trade businesses, which became part of BNY ConvergEx Group on Feb, 1, 2008. The BNY ConvergEx Group transaction which closed on
Oct. 1, 2006, changed the accounting from a fully consolidated subsidiary to a 35.4% equity interest recorded in other income.      Our Pershing and
Pershing Advisor Solutions subsidiaries provide financial institutions and independent registered investment advisors with operational support, trading services, flexible technology and practice management programs. Pershing services more than
1,150 retail and institutional financial organizations and independent registered investment advisors who collectively represent more than five million active investors.      Through B-Trade and G-Trade and our affiliate, BNY ConvergEx Group, LLC, we provide liquidity and execution management, investment technologies, and intermediary and clearing services in more than 90 global
markets, executing 235 million U.S. shares and $1.6 billion in non-U.S. principal each day and clearing more than 1.2 million trades daily.      Our
execution services business is one of the largest global agency brokerage organizations, providing a full suite of broker-assisted and electronic trading capabilities. In addition, we are one of the leading institutional electronic brokers for
non-U.S. dollar equity execution.      Revenue in this segment includes Broker Dealer and Registered Investment Advisor services and electronic trading
services which are primarily driven by:       

trading volumes, particularly those related to retail customers;      

overall market levels; and      

the amount of assets under administration.         A
substantial amount of revenue in this segment is generated from non-transactional activities, such as asset gathering, mutual fund, money fund and retirement programs, administration and other services. Segment expenses are driven by staff,  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     27   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 equipment and space required to support the services provided by the segment and the cost of execution and clearance of trades.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $444 million in
2007 compared with $440 million in 2006. Total fee and other revenue increased slightly in 2007 compared with 2006, reflecting the impact of the BNY ConvergEx transaction, as well as a $35 million gain on the sale of NYSE seats in 2006 and a
settlement received for early termination of a contract that occurred in 2005 ($28 million). Income before taxes (excluding intangible amortization) was $468 million in 2007, compared with $470 million in 2006. Clearing and execution servicing fees
decreased $24 million compared with 2006 reflecting the disposition of certain execution businesses in the BNY ConvergEx transaction which was primarily offset by higher market activity and volumes which increased clearing-related revenues, as
well as continued growth in money market and mutual fund positions.      Net interest revenue increased $26 million as higher revenues resulting from higher
levels of customer deposits were partially offset by the impact of the BNY ConvergEx transaction.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization)
increased $25 million in 2007 compared with 2006, reflecting higher salaries and benefits, clearing costs, bank technology charges, and outside services which more than offset the reduction in expense resulting from the BNY ConvergEx
transaction.       2006 compared with 2005       Income before
taxes increased $84 million compared with 2005. Fee and other revenue increased $41 million, reflecting good organic growth in asset-driven fees and retirement products, as well as a $35 million gain on the sale of NYSE seats in 2006. Net interest
revenue increased by $57 million compared with 2005, primarily reflecting rising interest rates and the internalization of stock loan activities partly offset by lower balances. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) increased $25
million in 2006 compared with 2005 as the impact of higher activity-driven expenses more than offset the impact of the BNY ConvergEx transaction.         
     Treasury Services segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.          Business description  
     The Treasury Services segment includes treasury services, global payment services, working capital solutions, foreign exchange and other trading
activities, capital markets business and large corporate banking.      Treasury services revenue is directly influenced by the volume of transactions and
payments processed, loan levels, types of service provided and net interest revenue earned from deposit balances generated by activity across the business operations. Our revenue is indirectly influenced by other factors including market volatility
in major currencies and the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients. Foreign exchange trading revenues are directly influenced by the volume of client
transactions and the spread realized on such transactions. Segment expenses are driven by staff, equipment and space required to support the services provided.      Treasury Services offers leading-edge technology, innovative products, and industry expertise to help its clients optimize cash flow, manage liquidity, and make payments around the world in more than 100 different countries. We maintain a
global network of branches, representative offices and correspondent banks to provide comprehensive payment services  

28     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 including funds transfer, cash management, trade services and liquidity management. We are one of the largest funds transfer banks in the U.S. transferring
over $1.8 trillion daily via more than 170,000 wire transfers.      We provide lending and credit-related services to large public and private
corporations and financial institutions nationwide through a broad range of capital markets services including syndicated loans, bond underwriting, and private placements of corporate debt and equity securities.      Our corporate lending strategy is to focus on those clients and industries that are major users of securities servicing and treasury services. Revenue from our lending
activities is primarily driven by loan levels and spreads over funding costs.       Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $587 million in 2007, compared with $447 million in 2006. Total fee and other revenue increased $178 million in 2007 driven by higher
treasury services revenue and higher foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue. Treasury services fees were up $125 million in 2007 reflecting the merger with Mellon, higher client volumes and growth in the global payment business.
The increase in other income in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily reflects the higher valuation of the credit derivatives portfolio.      The increase in net
interest revenue in 2007 compared with 2006 reflects the merger with Mellon as well as higher deposit levels, including compensating balances (in lieu of treasury services fees), and wider spreads. There was no provision for credit losses in 2007
compared with a charge of $5 million in 2006. Noninterest expense excluding intangible amortization) increased $126 million in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily due to the merger with Mellon, as well as increased salaries, incentives and
brokerage commission.       2006 compared with 2005       Income
before taxes decreased $44 million in 2006 compared to 2005. Total fee and other revenue decreased $68 million compared with 2005, reflecting lower asset related gains and capital market fees. Net interest revenue decreased $4 million in 2006
compared with 2005, reflecting lower loan spreads. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization) decreased $28 million in 2006, primarily reflecting lower operations costs resulting from the sale of our Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase.
        
     Other segment        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Results for 2007 include a reduction in net interest revenue resulting from a recalculation of the yield on the leverage lease portfolio caused by the impact of the merger with
Mellon on the New York state marginal tax rate ($22 million) and a write-off of internally developed software ($6 million).          Business
description       The Other segment primarily includes:       

the results of leasing operations;      

corporate treasury activities;      

business exits, and      

corporate overhead.         Revenue primarily reflects:

net interest revenue from the leasing portfolio;      

revenue from corporate and bank owned life insurance;      

any residual interest income resulting from transfer pricing algorithms relative to actual results, and      

gains (losses) from the sale of securities and other assets.         Noninterest expense includes:       

merger and integration charges;      

direct expenses supporting leasing, investing and funding activities;      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     29   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

certain corporate overhead not directly attributable to the operations of other segments, and      

expenses previously allocated to the Retail and Middle Market Banking Segment that did not qualify for treatment as discontinued operations expense.
         Review of financial results       Income
before taxes was a loss of $653 million in 2007 compared with a loss of $42 million in 2006.      Total fee and other revenue decreased $128 million in
2007 compared with 2006. The decrease primarily reflects the $200 million (pre-tax) securities loss related to CDOs recorded in the fourth quarter of 2007.      Net interest revenue was $18 million in 2007, a decrease of $24 million compared to 2006. The decrease reflects the negative impact of the required recalculation of the yield on leverage leases under FSP-FAS 13-2 resulting from the
merger with Mellon ($22 million), recorded in the third quarter of 2007 which more than offset the positive impact of the changing interest rate environment on corporate treasury allocations.      There was a $10 million credit to provision for credit losses recorded in 2007 compared with a credit of $19 million in 2006.      Noninterest expense (excluding intangible amortization/merger and integration expense) increased $151 million in 2007 compared with 2006, primarily reflecting the
merger with Mellon. Merger and integration expenses associated with the Mellon merger were $355 million in 2007 and include amounts for integration/conversion costs ($136 million), personnel-related costs ($122 million), transaction
costs ($67 million), and one-time costs ($30 million).       2006 compared with 2005       Income before taxes decreased $95 million in 2006 compared with 2005. Total fee and other revenue increased $120 million compared with 2005, reflecting higher
securities, investment and asset gains. Net interest revenue decreased $57 million in 2006 compared with 2005, due to the impact of accounting for the Retail Business as discontinued operations. Noninterest expense (excluding intangible

amortization) increased $157 million in 2006 compared with 2005, primarily due to merger and integration expense associated with the Acquired Corporate Trust
Business.       
  International operations       Our primary international activities consist of securities servicing, asset management and global
payment services. Target customers include financial institutions, pension funds and securities issuers worldwide.      In BNY Mellon Asset Servicing, we are a
leading global custodian. In the United Kingdom, we provide a full range of both local and global services. In Continental Europe, a full global product set is provided with access to certain local markets through strategic partnerships. Off-shore
mutual fund servicing capabilities for funds registered in Dublin, the Channel Islands, Luxembourg and Singapore are provided through operations in Luxembourg and Dublin.      In the Asia-Pacific region, we have over 50 years of experience providing trade and cash services to financial institutions and central banks. In addition, we offer a broad range of servicing and fiduciary products to
financial institutions, corporations and central banks depending on the state of market development. In emerging markets, we lead with global payments and issuer services, introducing other products as the markets mature. For more established
markets, our focus is on global, not local, asset servicing products and alternative investments.      BNY Mellon Asset Management operates a multi-boutique model, providing investors the skills of our specialist boutique asset managers, which together, manage investments spanning virtually all asset classes. With assets under management of
more than $1 trillion, we are the 13   th    largest global asset manager. In Europe, we are the 7   th    largest asset manager active in the European marketplace and we are the U.K. s 12   th    largest mutual fund manager. We have a rapidly growing presence in Asia and Latin America and now rank among the top 20 foreign asset managers in Japan.      Our clients include some of the world s largest pension funds and institutions, local authorities, treasuries, family offices and individual investors. Through our global network of offices, we have developed an in depth understanding
of local  

30     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 requirements and cultural needs and we pride ourselves in providing dedicated service through our multilingual sales, marketing and client service teams.
     We are also a leading provider and major market maker in the area of foreign exchange and interest-rate risk management services, dealing in over 100
currencies, and providing traditional trust and banking services to customers domiciled outside of the United States, principally in Europe and Asia.      We
conduct business through subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices in 34 countries. We have major operation centers based in Brussels, Dublin, Luxembourg, Singapore and throughout the United Kingdom including London, Manchester, Brentwood,
Edinburgh and Poole.      Our financial results, as well as our level of assets under custody and management, are impacted by the translation of financial
results denominated in foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar. We are primarily impacted by activities denominated in the British Pound, and to a lesser extent, the Euro. If the U.S. Dollar depreciates against these currencies, the translation
impact is a higher level of fee revenue, net interest revenue, operating expense and assets under management and custody. Conversely, if the U.S. Dollar appreciates, the translated levels of fee revenue, net interest revenue, operating expense
and assets under management and custody will be lower.         
 
    International clients accounted for 32% of revenue and 37% of net income in 2007. After adjusting net income for
the after-tax impact of the CDO write-down, merger and integration expense and intangible amortization, net income from International clients was 32% of total net income. At Dec. 31, 2007, we had 7,700 employees in Europe and 3,150 in Asia.
      International financial data       Foreign activity
includes asset and wealth management and securities servicing fee revenue generating businesses, foreign exchange trading activity, loans and other revenue producing assets and transactions in which the customer is domiciled outside of the United
States and/or the foreign activity is resident at a foreign entity.      Foreign revenue, income before income taxes, net income and assets from foreign
operations on a continuing operations basis are shown in the table below:   

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   In 2007, includes revenue of approximately $1.3 billion and assets of approximately $39.4 billion of international operations domiciled in the U.K., which is 11% of total revenue
and 20% of total assets.           
  In 2007, revenues from Europe were $2.780 billion, compared with $1.517 billion in 2006 and $1.327 billion in 2005. Revenues from Europe were up 83% in 2007 compared
to 2006. The increase in 2007 reflects the impact of the merger with Mellon and the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business. The increases in 2007 compared with 2006 and 2006   
   
 compared with 2005 were also impacted by higher cross-border flows which drove revenue higher in global mutual funds, custody, corporate trust and depositary
receipts. Revenues from Asia were $553 million in 2007 compared with $338 million in 2006, and $279 million in 2005. The increase in Asia in 2007 was impacted by the merger with Mellon. The   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     31   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 increases in 2007 and 2006 as well as 2006 and 2005 were also primarily due to increases in net interest income, securities lending, depositary receipts, and
equity in the earnings of Wing Hang. Net income from Europe was $509 million in 2007 compared with $286 million in 2006 and $251 million in 2005. Net income from Asia was $172 million in 2007, compared with $72 million in 2006, and $56 million in
2005. Net income from Europe and Asia were driven by the same factors affecting revenue. In addition, in all periods, net income from Europe was positively impacted by the strength of the Euro and Sterling versus the dollar.         
     Cross-border risk       Foreign assets are subject to general risks attendant to the conduct of business in each foreign
country, including economic uncertainties and each foreign government s regulations. In addition, our foreign assets may be affected by changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors.
Cross-border outstandings include loans, acceptances, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments, and other monetary assets which are denominated in dollars or other non-local currency. Also included are local
currency outstandings not hedged or funded by local borrowings.   
        The table below shows our cross-border outstandings for the last three years where cross-border exposure exceeds 1.00% of total assets (denoted with  * ) or 0.75% of total assets (denoted with  ** ).       
          
  Critical accounting estimates       Our significant accounting policies are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements under  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies . Four of our more critical accounting estimates are those related to the allowance for credit losses, the valuation of derivatives and securities where quoted
market prices are not available, goodwill and other intangibles, and pension accounting. In addition to  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies  in the Notes to   
   
 Consolidated Financial Statements, further information on policies related to the allowance for credit losses can be found under  Asset Quality and
Allowance for Credit Losses  in the MD A section. Further information on the valuation of derivatives and securities where quoted market prices are not available can be found under  Market Risk  and  Trading Activities and
Risk Management  in the MD A section and in  Fair Value of Financial Instruments  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on goodwill and intangible assets can be found in  Goodwill and

32     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)                     
     
 Intangibles  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information on pensions can be found in  Employee Benefit Plans  in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Reserve for loan losses and reserve for unfunded commitments       The reserve for loan losses and reserve for unfunded commitments consist of four elements: (1) an allowance for impaired credits; (2) an allowance for higher
risk rated loans and exposures; (3) an allowance for pass rated loans and exposures; and (4) an unallocated allowance based on general economic conditions and certain risk factors in our individual portfolio and markets. Further discussion
of the four elements can be found under  Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses  in the MD A section.      The reserve for loan losses
represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. Probability of default ratings are assigned after analyzing the credit quality of each
borrower/counterparty and our internal ratings are generally consistent with external ratings agencies default databases. Loss given default ratings are driven by the collateral, structure, and seniority of each individual asset and are consistent
with external loss given default/recovery databases. The portion of the allowance related to impaired credits is based on the present value of expected future cash flows; however, as a practical expedient, it may be based on the credit s
observable market price. Additionally, it may be based on the fair value of collateral if the credit is collateral dependent. Changes in the estimates of probability of default, risk ratings, loss given default/recovery rates, and cash flows could
have a direct impact on the allocated allowance for loan losses.      To the extent actual results differ from forecasts or management s judgment, the
allowance for credit losses may be greater or less than future charge-offs.      We consider it difficult to quantify the impact of changes in forecast on our
allowance for credit losses. Nevertheless, we believe the following discussion may enable investors to better understand the variables that drive the allowance for credit losses.      A key variable in determining the allowance is management s judgment in determining the size of the   
   
 unallocated allowance. At Dec. 31, 2007, the unallocated allowance was $116 million, or 23%, of the total allowance. At Dec. 31, 2006, the
unallocated allowance was $102 million, or 23%, of the total allowance. At Dec. 31, 2007 if the unallocated allowance, as a percent of the total allowance, was five percent higher or lower, the allowance would have increased or decreased by $25
million, respectively.      The credit rating assigned to each credit is another significant variable in determining the allowance. If each credit were rated
one grade better, the allowance would have decreased by $95 million, while if each credit were rated one grade worse, the allowance would have increased by $179 million. Similarly, if the loss given default were one rating worse, the allowance would
have increased by $33 million, while if the loss given default were one rating better, the allowance would have decreased by $60 million.      For impaired
credits, if the fair value of the loans were 10% higher or lower, the allowance would have decreased or increased by $11 million, respectively.       Valuation of derivatives and securities where quoted market prices are not available       When quoted market prices are not available for
derivatives and securities values held in our investment portfolios, such values are estimated at fair value, which is defined as the value at which positions could be closed out or sold in a transaction with a willing counterparty. Fair value for
these instruments is determined based on discounted cash flow analysis, comparison to similar instruments, and the use of financial models. Financial models use as their basis independently-sourced market parameters including, for example, interest
rate yield curves, option volatilities, and currency rates. Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. Model-based pricing uses inputs of observable prices for interest rates, foreign
exchange rates, option volatilities and other factors. Models are benchmarked and validated by independent parties. Our valuation process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns, and
results of stress tests. We apply judgment in the application of these factors. In addition, we must apply judgment when no external parameters exist.      Economic models, in conjunction with quoted dealer prices, are used to value the CDOs held in our investment securities portfolio. A primary driver of  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     33   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 the valuation of CDOs is the assumption of a peak-to-trough decline in home prices. The peak-to-trough assumption is determined by using several independent
sources, including: forecasts of future home price appreciation rates, housing sales data, housing inventory levels, and other significant housing market trends, as well as the forward curve for interest rates.      In times of financial stress, actual prices and valuations may significantly diverge from results predicted by models. Finally, other factors can affect our estimate of
fair value, including market dislocations, incorrect model assumptions, and unexpected correlations.      These valuation methods could expose us to materially
different results should the models used or underlying assumptions be inaccurate. See  Basis of Presentation  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      We currently price over 95% of our investment securities and derivatives portfolio using observable prices or market based inputs. We adopted SFAS No. 157 as of Jan. 1, 2008.       Goodwill and other intangibles       We record all assets and liabilities
acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles, and other intangibles, at fair value as required by SFAS Nos. 141 and 142 ( SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 ),  Business Combinations.  Goodwill ($16.3
billion at Dec. 31, 2007) and indefinite-lived intangible assets ($2.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007) are not amortized but are subject to annual tests for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired. Other
intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.      The initial recording of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles, and other intangibles requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. The goodwill
impairment test is performed in two phases. The first step compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting
unit is considered not impaired; however, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional   

procedure would be performed. That additional procedure would compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount
of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually by comparing their fair value
to their carrying value. Other intangible assets ($3.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007) are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Such evaluation of other intangible assets is based on undiscounted cash flow
projections.      Fair value may be determined using: market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples, discounted cash flow analysis and other
determinants. Estimated cash flows may extend far into the future and, by their nature, are difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer
behaviors and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures and technology, and changes in discount rates and specific industry or market sector conditions. Other key judgments in accounting for intangibles include useful life and
classification between goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles or other intangibles which require amortization. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding intangible assets. At Dec. 31, 2007,
we had $22.7 billion of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles, and other intangible assets.       Pension accounting       BNY Mellon has defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 25,200 U.S. employees and approximately 4,400 non-U.S. employees.      Legacy The Bank of New York has one qualified and two non-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and five overseas. As of Dec. 31, 2007, the U.S. plans
accounted for 75% of the projected benefit obligation. Pension expense for the legacy The Bank of New York plans was $13 million in 2007, compared with $38 million in 2006 and $26 million in 2005.      In addition to its pension plans, legacy The Bank of New York has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ). Benefits payable under the U.S. qualified pension
plan are offset by the equivalent value of benefits earned under the ESOP.   
       
   34     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Legacy Mellon has two qualified and several non-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and two overseas. As of Dec. 31, 2007, the U.S. plans
accounted for 87% of the projected benefit obligation. A pension credit of $17 million was recorded for the legacy Mellon plans for the period July 1, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2007.      A net pension credit of approximately $42 million is expected to be recorded for BNY Mellon in 2008, assuming current currency exchange rates.      A number of key assumption and measurement date values determine pension expense. The key elements include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, the market-related value of plan assets, and
for the legacy The Bank of New York U.S. plan the price used to value stock in the ESOP. Since 2005, these key elements have varied as follows:       

(a)   
   See  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies  in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(d)   
   Includes $4 million of expense for legacy Mellon s foreign plans.         The discount rate for U.S. pension plans was determined after reviewing a number of high quality long-term bond indices whose yields were adjusted to match the duration of BNY Mellon s pension liability. We also reviewed the results of
several models that matched bonds to our pension cash flows. After reviewing the various indices and models, we selected a discount rate of 6.38% as of Dec. 31, 2007. The   
   
 discount rates for foreign pension plans are based on high quality corporate bonds rates in countries that have an active corporate bond market. In those
countries with no active corporate bond market, discount rates are based on local government bond rates plus a credit spread.      Our expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the target allocation for each asset class. Anticipated returns are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and
fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      The market-related value of plan assets also influences the level of pension expense. Differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over five years to
compute an actuarially derived market-related value of plan assets. For the legacy Mellon plans, the market-related value of assets was set equal to the assets  market value as of July 1, 2007. The averaging of actuarial gains and losses,
for the legacy Mellon plan assets, will be phased in over the next five years.      Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the future
service period of active employees if they exceed a threshold amount. BNY Mellon currently has unrecognized losses which are being amortized.      The annual
impacts of hypothetical changes in the key elements on pension costs are shown in the table below.       
     
  Consolidated balance sheet review       Total assets were $197.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $103.2 billion at Dec. 31,
2006. Total  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     35   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 shareholders  equity was $29.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2007 compared with $11.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. The increase in assets and shareholders 
equity primarily reflects the merger with Mellon. The increase in assets also reflects growth in client deposits as well as the transition of the deposits from the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.       

Interest-bearing deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements totaled $43.4 billion or 22% of assets at Dec. 31,
2007, compared with $18.3 billion, or 18% of assets at Dec. 31, 2006. This increase in liquid assets reflects the growth in deposits, as well as the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the ABN AMRO Mellon joint venture.

Investment securities were $48.7 billion or 25% of our year-end assets in 2007 compared with $21.1 billon or 20% in 2006. The increase in investment securities
primarily relates to the merger with Mellon, deposit growth and the consolidation of TRFC.      
     Investment securities       The following table shows the distribution of our securities portfolio:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.            
    At Dec. 31, 2007, our investment securities portfolio included
$45.2 billion of securities that we manage and $3.5 billion added in connection with the consolidation of TRFC (see page 16). Each of these portfolios is discussed separately below.      Investment securities, excluding TRFC, were $45.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $21.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $27.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. Average investment securities were $35.4 billion in 2007,
compared with $22.3 billion in 2006 and $20.7 billion in 2005. At Dec. 31, 2007, the fixed income portfolio composition was approximately:       

49% variable rate mortgage-backed      

5% treasuries, government agencies, municipalities and short-term securities      

3% other securities         At Dec. 31, 2007, our portfolio
of mortgage and asset-backed securities of $41.5 billion (excluding TRFC securities) were rated as follows, by external rating agencies:       

In replacing securities that mature or are
paid off, we have been adding either adjustable or short life classes of structured mortgage-backed securities, both of which have short durations. The effective duration of our mortgage and asset-backed portfolio at Dec. 31, 2007 (excluding TRFC
securities) was approximately 1.66 years. The duration of our securities portfolio has declined in 2007 as we have purchased floating rate notes to better match the duration of the deposits in the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.      At Dec. 31, 2007, within our investment securities portfolio, we had $1.5 billion of exposure (excluding TRFC securities) to mortgage-backed securities with subprime
collateral. More than 98% of the collateral supporting these mortgage-backed securities is vintage 2005 or earlier.      In addition, within asset-backed
securities, we held $379 million of CDOs, at par, that contained subprime exposure. Based on deteriorating conditions in the U.S. housing market, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $200 million ($118 million after-tax) related to these securities in
the fourth quarter of 2007. An analysis of  

36     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 the portfolio showed it to be other than temporarily impaired. In addition, we recognized a $13 million loss on CDO exposure in the third quarter of 2007.
The carrying value of the CDOs at Dec. 31, 2007 was $179 million or 47% of par. At Dec. 31, 2007, we had discontinued accruing interest on $37 million of these securities due to uncertainty about collecting the carrying value. All of these
securities are currently paying interest. We intend to apply interest to principal on these securities which will result in a $9 million reduction of principal in 2008, assuming all interest continues to be paid.      At Dec. 31, 2007, our mortgage-backed securities with subprime exposure and collateralized debt obligations were rated as follows:       

(a)   
   With subprime exposure, excluding TRFC.         In the third quarter of
2007, we acquired $375 million of commercial paper and medium-term notes issued by a SIV from a portfolio advised by one of our asset managers. During the fourth quarter of 2007, $75 million of these securities matured, and we sold $174 million of
these securities, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $8 million. We applied a similar discount to the $126 million of remaining securities which resulted in a write-down of $6 million. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we acquired additional SIV
securities with a fair market value of $45 million from a commingled NAV fund. The $165 million carrying amount of remaining SIV securities at Dec. 31, 2007 was 88% of par. On Jan. 8, 2008, we were notified of an enforcement action related to the
SIV which will likely result in the liquidation of the SIV. We expect to receive an in-kind vertical slice of the underlying assets held by the SIV if there is a liquidation. At Feb. 25, 2008, the underlying assets held by the SIV were rated 68%
AAA, 22% AA and 10% A.         
    As discussed on pages 16 and 17, on Dec. 31, 2007, we consolidated TRFC. The fair value of TRFC s asset-backed securities portfolio, which is included in securities
available for sale, totaled approximately $3.5 billion at Dec 31, 2007. Below are TRFC s asset and mortgage-backed securities by credit rating received from external rating agencies.       

(a)   
   Includes $802 million wrapped with monoline insurance.         The TRFC
securities will be integrated into our investment portfolio during the first quarter of 2008 as the third party funding supporting the investment matures.      The unrealized net of tax loss on securities available-for-sale was $339 million at Dec. 31, 2007. At Dec. 31, 2006, the unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale netted to zero. The increased unrealized net loss is
the result of spreads widening on all instruments, including CDO s, offset in part by lower interest rates in 2007. We continue to have the ability and intent to hold these securities until any temporary impairment is recovered, or until
maturity. The unrealized net of tax loss on securities available-for-sale decreased the adjusted tangible common equity ratio 18 bps at Dec. 31, 2007.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     37   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
 The following table shows the maturity distribution by carrying amount and yield (not on a tax equivalent basis) of our securities portfolio at Dec. 31,
2007.       

(a)   
   Yields are based upon the amortized cost of securities.      

(b)   
   Includes $37 million, which, at Dec. 31, 2007, the accrual of interest had been discontinued due to uncertainty as to the collection of the carrying value.
             Within our securities portfolio, including TRFC securities, we own $1.7 billion of securities which have a credit enhancement through a guarantee by a monoline insurer.
$237 million of these securities are mortgage-backed, $661 million are municipal securities and $802 million are asset-backed securities. At Dec. 31, 2007, these securities were rated AAA. In all cases, when purchasing the securities, we relied on
the creditworthiness of the underlying securities.      We also have equity investments categorized as other assets (bracketed amounts indicate carrying
values). Included in other assets are joint ventures and other equity investments ($1.251 billion), Federal Reserve Bank stock ($366 million), strategic investments related to asset management and securities servicing ($313 million), private equity
investments ($269 million), and tax advantaged low-income housing investments ($201 million).      Our equity investment in Wing Hang has a fair value of $895
million (book value of $275 million) at Dec. 31, 2007. An agreement with certain other shareholders of Wing Hang prohibits the sale of this interest without their permission. We received dividends from Wing   
   
 Hang of $17 million, $18 million, and $16 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.      Private equity activities consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings, and direct equity investments. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to reduce our
exposure to these activities. The carrying and fair value of our private equity investments was $269 million at Dec. 31, 2007, down $12 million from $281 million at Dec. 31, 2006. At Dec. 31, 2007, private equity investments consisted of
investments in private equity funds of $218 million, direct equity of $29 million, mezzanine financings of $5 million, and leveraged bond funds of $17 million. Fair values for private equity funds are generally based upon information provided by
fund sponsors and our knowledge of the underlying portfolio while mezzanine financing and direct equity investments are based upon Company models. At Dec. 31, 2007, we had hedged approximately $8 million of our private equity fund investments. Hedge
positions are recorded at fair value with resulting gains and losses reflected in Investment income. In 2007, we had an average invested balance of $275 million in private equity. Investment income and interest income were $71 million, a pre-tax
return of 26%.   
       
   38     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 At Dec. 31, 2007, we had $55 million of unfunded investment commitments to private equity funds and partnerships. The timing of future cash requirements to
fund such commitments is generally dependent on the investment cycle. This cycle, the period over which privately-held companies are funded by private equity investors and ultimately sold, merged, or taken public through an initial public offering,
can vary based on overall market conditions as well as the nature and type of industry in which the companies operate. If unused, the commitments expire in 2010 and 2011.      Commitments to private equity limited partnerships may extend beyond the expiration period shown above to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and liabilities, and organizational and partnership expenses.
     From time to time, we may make other fund commitments consistent with our strategy to expand our asset management activities.         
   
  Loans        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.         At Dec. 31, 2007, total
exposures were $114.9 billion, up from $87.1 billion in 2006 reflecting the merger with Mellon and increased lending to financial institutions. Our financial institutions and commercial portfolios comprise our largest concentrated risk. These
portfolios make up 70% of our total lending exposure.      The following table provides additional details on our credit exposures and outstandings for
continuing operations at Dec. 31, 2007 in comparison to Dec. 31, 2006.   

(a)   
   Classifications have been changed following the merger with Mellon              Total loans were $50.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2007,
compared with $37.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. The increase primarily reflects the merger with Mellon. Average total loans were $41.5 billion in 2007, compared with $33.6 billion in 2006. The increase in average loans primarily resulted from the
merger with Mellon and increased overdrafts related to custody business and broker-dealer loans. Wealth management   
   
 loans and mortgages are primarily composed of loans to high-net-worth individuals secured by marketable securities and jumbo mortgages. We had less than $20
million of subprime mortgages in our loan portfolio. These loans were issued to support our Community Reinvestment Act requirements. Other loans are composed largely of overdrafts related to custody and securities clearance clients.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     39   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Financial institutions       The financial institutions portfolio exposure was $46.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared to $38.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. The increase primarily
reflects the merger with Mellon and greater activity in the capital markets in 2007, which drove increased demand for credit from financial institutions. These exposures are of high quality with 88% meeting the investment grade equivalent criteria
of our rating system. These exposures are generally short-term, with 72% expiring within one year and are frequently secured. For example, mortgage banking, securities industry, and asset managers often borrow against marketable securities held in
custody.      Exposure to banks is largely to investment grade counterparties in developed countries. Non-investment grade bank exposures are short term in
nature supporting our global trade finance and dollar clearing businesses in developing countries globally.      As a conservative measure, our internal credit
rating classification for international counterparties caps the rating based upon the sovereign rating of the country where the counterparty resides regardless of the credit rating of the counterparty or the underlying collateral.         
    The asset manager portfolio exposures are high quality with 96% meeting our investment grade equivalent ratings criteria. These exposures are generally short term liquidity facilities with the vast majority to
regulated mutual funds. At Dec. 31, 2007, we had $81 million of senior loans to two SIVs, net of $19 million of credit losses which were recorded in 2007. We believe we are adequately reserved for any further potential losses. This represents the
extent of our loan exposure to SIVs.      Our mortgage banking exposures are 73% investment grade with the balance of our exposure extended on a secured basis.
We have also purchased $200 million of credit protection related to this portfolio.      Included in insurance exposure in the table below is $240 million
of direct credit exposure to six monoline financial guaranty insurers. We also extend facilities which provide liquidity, primarily for variable rate tax exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit approval for these facilities is
based on an assessment of the underlying tax exempt issuer and is not simply dependent upon the monoline.      The diversity of the financial institutions
portfolio is shown in the following table:   

(a)   
   Classifications have been changed following the merger with Mellon.            
   40     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Commercial       The commercial portfolio exposure increased
to $33.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, from $26.2 billion at Dec. 31,   
   
 2006 primarily due to the merger with Mellon. Approximately 82% of the portfolio is investment grade and 19% of the portfolio matures within one year.

(a)   
   Classifications have been changed following the merger with Mellon.               Wealth Management loans and mortgages  
     Wealth Management loans and mortgages are primarily composed of loans to high-net-worth individuals secured by marketable securities and jumbo mortgages.
As previously indicated, at Dec. 31, 2007, we had less than $20 million of subprime mortgages in our portfolio. These loans were issued to support our Community Reinvestment Act requirements.       Lease financings       We utilize the leasing portfolio as part of our
tax cash flow management strategy. This portfolio generates attractive after-tax risk-adjusted returns. Counterparties in the leasing transactions are generally highly rated. The leasing portfolio consisted of non-airline exposures of $4.7 billion
and $249 million of airline exposures at Dec. 31, 2007.      The non-airline portion of the leasing portfolio, now combined with legacy Mellon s leasing
portfolio, consisted of $4.7 billion of exposures backed by well-diversified assets, primarily large-ticket transportation equipment. The largest component is rail, consisting of both passenger and freight trains. Assets are both domestic and
foreign-based, with primary concentrations in the United States and European countries. Excluding airline leasing, counterparty rating equivalents at Dec. 31, 2007, were as follows:       

35% of the counterparties are AA or better;      

6% are non-investment grade            
    At Dec. 31, 2007, our exposure to the airline industry
consisted of a $249 million leasing portfolio, including an $18 million real estate lease exposure. At Dec. 31, 2007, the airline-leasing portfolio consisted of $42 million to major U.S. carriers, $143 million to foreign airlines and $64
million to U.S. regionals.      In 2007, the airline industry continued to face challenging operating conditions. Despite the industry s improved capacity
utilization, higher oil prices combined with a weaker economic outlook during the latter half of 2007 had a dampening effect on aircraft values in the secondary market. Because of these factors, we continue to maintain a sizable allowance for loan
losses against these exposures and to closely monitor the portfolio. In 2007, we sold $67 million of aircraft leasing exposure, resulting in a charge-off of $36 million. In 2006, we sold $38 million of leasing exposure to a domestic airline,
resulting in a charge-off of $23 million.       Commercial real estate       Our commercial real estate lending activities include both construction facilities and medium-term loans. Our client base consists of experienced developers and long-term holders of real estate assets. Loans are
approved on the basis of existing or projected cash flow, and supported by appraisals and a knowledge of local market conditions. Development loans are      structured with moderate leverage, and in most instances, involve some level of recourse to the developer. Our commercial real estate loan portfolio totaled $4.7 billion of exposure at Dec. 31, 2007 compared with $2.8 billion of exposure at
Dec. 31, 2006. The increase primarily resulted from the Mellon merger. At Dec. 31, 2007, approximately 75% of our   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     41   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 commercial real estate portfolio was secured. The secured portfolio is diverse by project type with approximately 28% secured by residential buildings,
approximately 22% secured by office buildings, 12% secured by retail properties, and 38% by other categories. Approximately 80% of the unsecured portfolio is allocated to investment grade real estate investment trusts (REITs) under revolving credit
agreements.      We avoid speculative development loans. Real estate facilities are focused on experienced owners and are structured with moderate leverage
based on existing cash flows.       Other loans       Other
loans are composed largely of overdrafts related to custody and securities clearance clients. Overdrafts increased significantly at Dec. 31, 2007 and have since been repaid.      We have credit relationships in the international markets, particularly in areas associated with our   
   
 securities servicing and trade finance. Excluding lease financings, these activities resulted in outstanding international loans of $11.7 billion and $6.6
billion at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This increase primarily resulted from overdrafts related to custody and securities clearance clients.      At
Dec. 31, 2007, our emerging markets exposures totaled approximately $5.9 billion consisting primarily of short-term loans, and a $275 million investment in Wing Hang. Emerging market countries where we have exposure include Argentina, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Honduras, Indonesia, India, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Mozambique, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Uruguay,
Vietnam, and Yemen.      The table below shows trends in the loans outstanding at year-end on a continuing operations basis over the last five years based on a
product analysis.   

42     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
 The following table shows the maturity structure of our commercial loan portfolio at Dec. 31, 2007.       

(a)   
   Variable rate loans due after one year totaled $8.048 billion and fixed-rate loans totaled $618 million.          Counterparty risk ratings profile       The table below summarizes the
risk ratings of our foreign exchange and interest rate derivative counterparty credit exposure for the past year.       

(a)   
   Represents credit rating agency equivalent of internal credit ratings.              For derivative counterparty credit exposure, see
Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Asset quality and allowance for credit losses       Over the past several years, we have improved our risk profile through greater focus on clients who are active users of our non-credit services, de-emphasizing
broad-based loan growth. Our primary exposure to credit risk of a customer consists of funded loans, unfunded formal contractual commitments to lend, counterparty risk associated with derivative transactions and overdrafts associated with clearing
and settlement.      The role of credit has shifted to one that complements our other services instead of as a lead product. Credit solidifies customer
relationships and, through a disciplined allocation of capital, can earn acceptable rates of return as part of an overall relationship. We regularly cull our loan portfolio of credit exposures   
   
 that no longer meet risk/return criteria, including an assessment of overall relationship profitability. In addition, we make use of credit derivatives and
other risk mitigants as economic hedges of portions of the credit risk in our portfolio. The effect of these transactions is to transfer credit risk to creditworthy, independent third parties.      We have implemented the following institutional credit strategies to improve our credit risk profile:      Focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling;       

Avoid single name/industry concentrations, using credit default swaps as appropriate. At Dec. 31, 2007, we have used credit default swaps to reduce exposure on
$2.065 billion of loans and commitments, and      

Establish a target of $4.5 billion of exposure reduction which will:      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     43   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

lower expected loss and potential volatility in the credit provision, and      

result in a modest reduction in interest revenue and associated capital markets fees.      
   
  Activity in allowance for credit losses       The following
table details changes in our allowance for credit losses for the last five years:   
     
         Net charge-offs were $63 million in 2007, $13 million in 2006, and $150 million in 2005. Net charge-offs in 2007 included $23 million related to the sale of leased
aircraft, $19 million related to foreign SIV exposure and $13 million related to an investment fund. Net charge-offs in 2006 included $23 million related to the sale of airline exposure. Net charge-offs in 2005 included $140 million related to two
bankrupt airline customers.      The provision for credit losses was a credit of $10 million in 2007, compared with a credit of $20 million in 2006
and a credit of $7 million in 2005. The provision in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily   
   
 reflects the growth in nonperforming assets and the current credit environment.      The total allowance for credit losses was $494 million and $437 million at year-end 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in the allowance for loan losses and allowance for unfunded commitments reflects the merger
with Mellon, partially offset by credit losses from the sale of airline leases, SIV exposure, and an investment fund. The ratio of the total allowance for credit losses to year-end non-margin loans was 1.08% and 1.34% at Dec. 31,      2007 and 2006. The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to year-end non-margin loans was 0.72% and   
       
   44     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 0.88% at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006. The decline in these ratios reflects the sale of heavily reserved airline leases in 2007.      We had $5.210 billion and $5.167 billion of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans
and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to these loans. As a result, we believe that the ratio of total allowance for credit losses to non-margin loans is a more appropriate metric to measure the adequacy of the reserve.
     Our total allowance for credit losses at year-end 2007 equated to approximately 5.7 times the average charge-offs and 6.6 times the average net
charge-offs for the last three years. Because historical charge-offs are not necessarily indicative of future charge-off levels, we also give consideration to other risk indicators when determining the appropriate allowance level.      The allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded commitments consist of four elements:       

an allowance for impaired credits (nonaccrual commercial credits over $1 million);      

an allowance for higher risk rated credits;      

an allowance for pass rated credits, and      

an unallocated allowance based on general economic conditions and risk factors in our individual markets.         The first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all nonperforming commercial credits over $1 million. The allowance is measured by the difference
between the recorded value of impaired loans and their fair value. Fair value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.      The second element, higher risk rated credits, is based on the assignment of loss factors for each specific risk category of higher risk credits. We rate each credit in
our portfolio that exceeds $1 million and assign the credits to specific risk pools. A potential loss factor is assigned to each pool, and an amount is included in the allowance equal to the product of the amount of the loan in the pool and the risk
factor. Reviews of higher risk rated loans are conducted quarterly and the loan s rating is updated as necessary. We prepare a loss migration analysis and compare our actual loss experience to the loss factors on an annual basis to attempt to
ensure the accuracy of the loss factors assigned to each pool.         
    The third element, pass rated credits, is based on our expected
loss model. Borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings. The expected loss for each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and maturity. The credit rating is dependent upon the
borrower s probability of default. The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation. Borrower ratings are reviewed semi-annually at a minimum and are periodically mapped to third parties, including rating agency and default and
recovery, data bases to ensure ongoing consistency and validity. Commercial loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a credit rating. We also apply this technique to our leasing and consumer portfolios. At our subsidiary
banks that provide credit to small businesses, exposures are pooled and reserves are established based on historical portfolio losses.      The fourth element,
the unallocated allowance, is based on management s judgment regarding the following factors:       

Economic conditions including duration of the current cycle;      

Past experience including recent loss experience;      

Credit quality trends;      

Collateral values;      

Volume, composition, and growth of the loan portfolio;      

Specific credits and industry conditions;      

Results of bank regulatory and internal credit exams;      

Geopolitical issues and their impact on the economy; and      

Volatility and model risk.         Based on an evaluation
of these four elements, including individual credits, historical credit losses, and global economic factors, we have allocated our allowance for credit losses on a continuing operations basis as follows:       

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     45   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 The above allocation is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the nature of
the loss. The percentage of the unallocated allowance for credit losses was 23% at Dec. 31, 2007, unchanged from   
   
 Dec. 31, 2006. The unallocated allowance reflects various factors in the current credit environment, and is also available, among other things, to absorb
further deterioration in our mortgage industry-related exposure.   
         Nonperforming assets       The following table shows the distribution of nonperforming assets at the end of each of the last five years.
      
         Nonperforming assets increased by $152 million to $190 million at Dec. 31, 2007. The increase relates principally to liquidity facilities to two foreign SIVs ($81
million), a related party loan provided to support an investment management product that is currently being unwound ($24 million), and commercial construction loans ($23 million) and a loan to a real estate development company ($17 million) which
are included in commercial real estate loans in the table above. The SIV exposure added to nonperforming loans represents all of the SIV exposure within our loan portfolio.       

(a)   
   Legacy the Bank of New York only.            
    The following table shows loans past due 90 days or more and
still accruing interest for the last five years.       
    Past due loans at Dec. 31, 2007 were primarily comprised of loans to an asset manager that has filed bankruptcy.
(See Note 27 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) These loans are well secured, largely by high grade fixed income securities, and are in the process of collection.   
       
   46     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
  Deposits       Total deposits were $118.1 billion at year-end
2007, compared with $62.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $49.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. The increase, compared with 2006, was primarily due to the merger with Mellon, the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, and growth in the securities servicing
business. Noninterest-bearing deposits were $32.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $19.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $12.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. Interest-bearing deposits were $85.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $42.6
billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $37.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2005.      The aggregate amount of deposits by foreign customers in domestic offices was $7.3
billion, $6.3 billion, and $5.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.      The majority of deposits in foreign offices of $64.7 billion at
Dec. 31, 2007 were in amounts in excess of $100,000 and were primarily overnight foreign deposits.      The following table shows the maturity breakdown of
domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more at Dec. 31, 2007.       
     Other borrowings       We fund ourselves primarily through deposits and other borrowings, which are comprised of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreement, payables to customers and broker-dealers, other borrowed funds, and long-term
debt. At Dec. 31, 2007, we had $4.079 billion of commercial paper that was primarily recorded in the consolidation of TRFC. We eliminated this commercial paper in the first quarter of 2008. We also held $224 million and $85 million of commercial
paper at Dec. 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements were $2.193 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $790 million at Dec. 31, 2006 and $834 million at Dec. 31, 2005. Payables to
customers and broker-dealers were   
   
 $7.578 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, $7.266 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $8.623 billion at Dec. 31, 2005. Other borrowed funds were $1.840 billion at
Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $1.401 billion at Dec. 31, 2006 and $819 million at Dec. 31, 2005. Other borrowed funds consist primarily of extended federal funds purchased and amounts owed to the U.S. Treasury.      See  Liquidity and dividends  below for a discussion of long-term debt.      Information related to federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements in 2007, 2006 and 2005 is presented in the table below.       
    Information related to other borrowed funds in 2007, 2006 and 2005 is presented in the table below.       

(a)   
   Includes commercial paper.          
  Liquidity and dividends       We maintain our liquidity through the management of our assets and liabilities, utilizing worldwide
financial markets. The diversification of liabilities reflects our efforts to maintain flexibility of funding sources under changing market conditions. Stable core deposits from our securities servicing businesses, wealth management businesses and
treasury services are generated through our diversified network and managed with the use of trend studies and deposit pricing. The use of derivative products such as interest rate swaps and financial futures enhances liquidity by enabling us to
issue long-term liabilities with limited exposure to interest rate risk. Liquidity also results from the maintenance of a portfolio of assets that can be easily sold and the monitoring of unfunded loan commitments, thereby reducing unanticipated
funding requirements. Liquidity is managed on both a  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     47   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 consolidated basis and at The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation parent company ( Parent ).      On July 1, 2007, the merger with Mellon added approximately $33 billion of interest-earning assets, including $18 billion of securities, $7 billion of loans and $6
billion of other money market investments. The merger also provided the following funding sources: $21 billion of interest-bearing deposits; $8 billion of noninterest bearing-deposits; $4 billion of long-term debt and $1 billion of federal funds
purchased. Goodwill and intangibles related to the merger with Mellon were approximately $16 billion.      Non-core sources of funds such as money market rate
accounts, certificates of deposit greater than $100,000, federal funds purchased and other borrowings were $19.8 billion and $13.9 billion on an average basis in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase primarily reflects the merger with Mellon.
Average foreign deposits, primarily from our European-based securities servicing business, were $50.3 billion in 2007 compared with $32.6 billion in 2006. The increase in foreign deposits reflects liquidity from our corporate trust and custody
businesses, the merger with Mellon, and the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business. Domestic savings and other time deposits were $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion on an average basis, in 2007 and 2006 Average payables to customers and
broker-dealers were $5.1 billion in 2007 and $4.9 billion in 2006. Long-term debt increased on average to $12.3 billion in 2007 from $8.3 billion in 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon, as well as the building of liquidity to pay debt maturing
in 2008. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased to $21.7 billion in 2007 from $11.6 billion in 2006, reflecting the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, the merger with Mellon and organic growth in our securities servicing
businesses. A significant reduction in our securities servicing businesses would reduce access to deposits.      We have entered into several modest
securitization transactions. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These transactions have not had a significant impact on our liquidity or capital.      The Parent s cash position was $4.414 billion and $908 million at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Substantially, all of these funds were deposited with The Bank of New York. Our policy is to maintain
sufficient cash for the Parent to be able to satisfy its obligations for one year without the need to access the capital markets or take a dividend from our bank subsidiaries.         
    The Parent has four major
sources of liquidity:       

dividends from its subsidiaries;      

the commercial paper market;      

a revolving credit agreement with third party financial institutions; and      

access to the capital markets.         At Dec. 31, 2007,
our bank subsidiaries had the ability to pay dividends of approximately $1.635 billion to the Parent without the need for a regulatory waiver. This dividend capacity would increase in 2008 to the extent of the banks  net income less dividends.
At Dec. 31, 2007, nonbank subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of approximately $948 million. These assets could be liquidated and the proceeds delivered by dividend or loan to the Parent. In accordance with GAAP, on July 1, 2007, the
retained earnings of the bank subsidiaries acquired in the merger with Mellon were transferred to capital surplus. As a result, the dividend limitations for these banks is limited to the amount of earnings retained in the third and fourth quarters
of 2007. Capital can be distributed by these banking subsidiaries via a regulatory waiver.      Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our
subsidiaries are discussed in more detail in Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      In 2007 and 2006, the Parent s average commercial
paper borrowings, which exclude commercial paper issued by TRFC, were $73 million and $349 million, respectively. Commercial paper outstandings issued by the Parent were $65 million and $224 million at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net of
commercial paper outstanding, the Parent s cash position at Dec. 31, 2007 increased by $3.665 billion to $4.349 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2006. The Parent has been increasing cash in anticipation of the repayment of long-term debt that
matures in the next twelve months.      On Oct. 10, 2006, we entered into a $250 million credit agreement with 11 financial institutions. The facility was
reduced to $226 million reflecting our merger with of one of our lenders, Mellon Bank, N.A., pursuant to the merger with Mellon. The fee on this facility depends on our credit rating and at Dec. 31, 2007 was 6 basis points. The credit agreement
requires us to maintain:       

shareholder s equity of $5 billion;      

a ratio of Tier I capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5;      

a double leverage ratio less than 1.3; and      

48     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

adequate capitalization of all our banks for regulatory purposes.         This facility matures in October 2011. There were no borrowings under this facility at Dec. 31, 2007.      We also have the
ability to access the capital markets. In July 2007, we filed an S-3 shelf registration statement with the SEC covering the issuance of an unlimited amount of debt, common stock, preferred stock and trust preferred securities.      Access to the capital markets is partially dependent on our credit ratings, which, as of Dec. 31, 2007, were as follows:       

Debt ratings at Dec. 31, 2007   
     
  Standard   Poor s  
     
  Moody s  
     
  Fitch  
     
    Dominion Bond Rating Service    

Parent:    

Commercial paper   
     
  A-1  
     
  P-1  
     
  F1+  
     
  R-1    (middle   
       )    
 
    Subordinated long-term debt   
     
       A   
     
       Aa3   
     
  A+  
     
  A    (high   
       )    
 
    Senior long-term debt   
     
  A+  
     
  Aa2  
     
  AA-  
     
  AA    (low   
       )    

The Bank of New York:    

Long-term deposits   
     
  AA-  
     
  Aaa  
     
  AA  
     
  AA  

Mellon Bank, N.A.:    

Long-term deposits   
     
  AA-  
     
  Aaa  
     
  AA  
     
  AA  

Subordinated debt   
     
  A+  
     
  Aa1  
     
  A+  
     
  AA    (low   
       )    

Outlook    
     
  Positive  
     
  Stable  
     
  Positive  
     
  Positive  
      
    Moody s upgraded our senior debt ratings for The Bank of New York from Aa2 to Aaa in March 2007, and for the
Parent from Aa3 to Aa2 in April 2007. In June 2007, Dominion Bond Rating Service upgraded the long-term ratings of the Parent and its subsidiaries to Positive from Stable and the short-term rating of The Bank of New York to R-1 (high) from R-1
(middle). In July 2007, Dominion Bond Rating Service upgraded Mellon Bank, N.A. s long-term deposits from AA (low) to AA and subordinated debt from A (high) to AA (low). In December 2007, Standard   Poor s revised our outlook to
Positive from Stable.      The Parent s major uses of funds are payment of dividends, principal and interest on its borrowings, acquisitions, and
additional investment in its subsidiaries.      The Parent has $3.050 billion of long-term debt that will become due in 2008. The increased amount of long-term
debt due in 2008 is primarily due to $1.350 billion of extendible notes on which investors exercised their right not to extend the maturity date, as   
   
 well as $250 million acquired in the merger with Mellon. In 2007, we called $250 million of subordinated debt and $133 million of subordinated debt matured.
Also, $700 million of senior debt matured. We have $400 million of subordinated debt that will become callable and steps up to a higher interest rate in 2008. We expect that we will call this debt when the interest rate steps up. In addition, the
Parent has the option to call $626 million of subordinated debt in 2008, which it expects to call and refinance if market conditions are favorable. The Parent expects to refinance any debt it repays by issuing a combination of senior and
subordinated debt.      We also have $250 million of long-term debt, issued by The Bank of New York that will become due in 2008.      As a result of the merger with Mellon and issuances in 2007, long-term debt increased to $16.873 billion at Dec. 31, 2007 from $8.773 billion at Dec. 31, 2006. In 2007,
we issued $309 million of callable medium-term subordinated notes bearing interest at rates from 5.45% to 6.30%. The notes are due in 2022, 2023, 2032 and 2033 and are callable by us after three to five years. The notes qualify as Tier II capital.
     In 2007, we issued $4.325 billion of senior debt, summarized in the following table.       

(a)   
   Investors exercised their right not to extend the maturity date of these notes; therefore, $650 million is due in the third quarter of 2008 and $100 million is due in the fourth
quarter of 2008.         We have $1.150 billion of junior subordinated debentures that are callable in 2008. These securities qualify as Tier I
Capital. We have not yet decided if we will call these securities. The decision to call will be based on interest rates, the availability of cash and capital, and regulatory conditions. If we call the preferred trust securities, we expect to replace
them with new preferred trust securities or senior or      subordinated debt. See discussion of qualification of preferred trust securities as capital in
 Capital.    
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     49   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Double leverage is the ratio of investment in subsidiaries divided by our consolidated equity plus preferred trust securities. Our double leverage ratio at
Dec. 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 was 98.89%, 102.86%, and 103.91%, respectively. Our target double leverage ratio is a maximum of 120%. The double leverage ratio is monitored by regulators and rating agencies and is an important constraint on our
ability to invest in our subsidiaries and expand our businesses.      Pershing LLC, an indirect subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines
of credit in place for liquidity purposes. The committed lines of credit of $500 million with four financial institutions matures in March 2008. In 2007, the average borrowing against these lines of credit was $2 million. Pershing LLC has three
separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $1 billion in aggregate. In 2007, average daily borrowing under these lines was $17 million in aggregate.      Pershing Limited, an indirect U.K.-based subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines in place for liquidity purposes. The committed line of credit of $275 million with four financial institutions mature in March 2008. In
2007, the average daily borrowing against this line of credit was $3 million. Pershing Limited has three separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $300 million in aggregate. In 2007, average daily borrowing under these lines was $129 million
in aggregate.       Statement of cash flows       Cash provided
by operating activities was $4.0 billion in 2007, compared with $3.9 billion provided in 2006 and   
   
 $1.1 billion used in 2005. The cash flows from operations in 2007 were principally the results of earnings and changes in trading activities. The cash flows
from operations in 2006 were principally the result of earnings, the gain on the sale of the Retail Business and changes in trading activities. The cash flows used for operations in 2005 were principally the result of changes in trading activities,
partially offset by earnings.      In 2007, cash used for investing activities was $21.6 billion compared to $6.3 billion used for investing activities in 2006
and $7.6 billion used for investing activities in 2005. In 2007, 2006, and 2005, cash was used to increase our investment in highly-rated securities and short-term liquid assets. Interest-bearing deposits were a use of funds in 2007, 2006, and 2005.
Loans to customers were a use of funds in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements were also a use of funds in 2007 and 2006 and were a source of funds in 2005.      In 2007, cash provided by financing activities was $21.5 billion as compared to $2.5 billion provided by financing activities in 2006 and $8.1 billion provided by
financing activities in 2005. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, sources of funds included deposits and the issuance of long-term debt.       
  Commitments and obligations       We have contractual obligations to make fixed and determinable payments to third parties as
indicated in the table below. The table excludes certain obligations such as trade payables and trading liabilities, where the obligation is short-term or subject to valuation based on market factors.   

(b)   
   Including interest.            
   50     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
           
 We have entered into fixed and determinable commitments as indicated in the tables below:       

(a)   
   Includes venture capital, community reinvestment act, and other investment-related commitments. Commitments to venture capital limited partnerships may extend beyond expiration
period shown to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and liabilities, and organizational and partnership expenses.      

(b)   
   Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms.
             In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $92 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with FIN 48. Related to
these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential interest of $28 million associated with these unrecognized tax benefits as of Dec. 31, 2007. At this point, it is not possible to determine when these amounts will be
settled or resolved.      We believe that over the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that the tax benefits associated with the IRS exam of our LILO
transactions will be settled (see FSP FAS 13-2 in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Given that we deposited funds with the IRS in anticipation of reaching a settlement (see Commitments and contingent liabilities, Note 24 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), we do not believe the resolution of this matter will have a material impact on our short- and long-term liquidity positions.       
  Off-balance sheet arrangements       Off-balance sheet arrangements to be discussed in this section are limited to guarantees,
retained or contingent interests, certain derivative instruments related to our common stock, and obligations arising out of unconsolidated variable interest entities. For BNY Mellon, these items include certain credit guarantees and
securitizations. Guarantees include lending-related guarantees issued as part of our corporate banking business and securities lending indemnifications issued as part of BNY Mellon s   
   
 servicing and fiduciary businesses. We have issued guarantees as indicated in the table below:       
    Standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees totaled $14 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, an
increase of $3 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2006. Standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees are used by the customer as a credit enhancement and typically expire without being drawn upon.      A commercial letter of credit is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer. Although the
commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction. As a result, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent
future cash requirements. Commercial letters of credit totaled $1.167 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, compared with $1.195 billion at Dec. 31, 2006.      A
securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     51   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 (BNY Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally
matures in less than 90 days. We recorded $366 million of fee revenue from securities lending transactions in 2007 compared with $170 million in 2006. Securities are lent with and without indemnification against broker default.
Custodian securities lent with indemnification against broker default of return of securities totaled $618 billion at Dec. 31, 2007, a $219 billion increase compared with Dec. 31, 2006, reflecting the merger with Mellon and the
acquisition of the remaining 50% of the ABN AMRO Mellon joint venture, as well as growth in this line of business. These transactions were primarily collateralized at 102% by cash and U.S. government securities, which is monitored daily, thus
reducing credit risk. Market risk can also arise in securities lending transactions. These risks are controlled through policies limiting the level of risk that can be undertaken.      We expect many of these guarantees to expire without the need to advance any cash. The revenue associated with guarantees frequently depends on the credit rating of the obligor and the structure of the transaction,
including collateral, if any.      We provided services to two qualifying special-purpose entities ( QSPEs ) at Dec. 31, 2007. All of our
securitizations are QSPEs as defined by SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities,  which, by design, are passive investment vehicles and therefore, we do not
consolidate them. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Asset-backed commercial paper securitization       In Dec. 2007, we called the first loss notes of TRFC, triggering the consolidation of TRFC. See page 16 for a further discussion.      Since 2000, we have sold and distributed securities for Old Slip Funding, LLC ( OSF ), an asset- backed commercial paper securitization program. We service the
program and receive a market-based fee of approximately five basis points that is adequate to compensate us for our servicing responsibilities. As a result, there is no servicing asset or liability.      In 2007, we restructured the program with a third party holding the first loss position, which is designed to absorb the majority of any expected losses. The first loss
note holder commitment is $5 million. The Bank of New York provides additional liquidity and credit enhancement to OSF s commercial paper   
   
 securitization program through total rate of return swaps and a subordinated loan. The swaps are constructed to mature as the commercial paper matures. To
the extent there is a liquidity issue impacting the paying ability of the underlying assets or if the underlying assets undergo a credit default, the swaps are designed to ensure the timely payments to the beneficial interest holders. At Dec. 31,
2007, the authorized size of the program was $5 billion. Effective Feb. 15, 2008, the authorized program size was lowered to $150 million. OSF is funded by commercial paper (98%) and a subordinated loan (2%). Other than an increased cost of
funding, OSF experienced no funding difficulties and did not require liquidity support in 2007. There were no material writedowns of assets held by OSF in 2007. At Dec. 31, 2007, OSF held a $135 million book-value asset portfolio consisting of
mortgage-backed securities, 93% of which were rated AAA and 7% were rated A. At Dec. 31, 2007, a FIN 46R analysis was performed on OSF and it was not subject to consolidation by BNY Mellon. Consolidation of OSF would be immaterial to the assets of
BNY Mellon.       
  Capital        

(a)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      

(b)   
   Shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangible assets divided by total assets less goodwill and intangible assets. Adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with
non-tax deductible identifiable intangible assets.      

(c)   
   Consolidated target ratios for Tier I and adjusted tangible common equity are 8.00% and 5.00%, respectively.      
       
   52     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The increase in shareholders  equity
compared with Dec. 31, 2006 primarily resulted from the merger with Mellon. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the impact of the merger with Mellon. In connection with the merger, we issued
418.3 million shares of common stock, resulting in an increase to shareholders  equity of $16.7 billion. During 2007, we retained $1.151 billion of operating earnings. Accumulated other comprehensive income declined $257 million reflecting
the decrease in the fair value of securities available-for-sale. On July 1, 2007, in connection with the merger with Mellon, we retired all outstanding treasury stock. Since July 1, 2007, we have repurchased 1.7 million shares of
common stock.      In a non-taxable business combination, such as our merger with Mellon, deferred tax liabilities are recorded in relation to identifiable
intangible assets. The recording of this deferred tax liability results in an increase in goodwill equal to the amount of the deferred tax liability. Bank regulators and rating agencies adjust equity upward for the amount of this deferred tax
liability since it is a liability for accounting purposes and will never require a cash settlement unless a sale occurs. As a result, we believe Tier I and adjusted tangible common equity should be our primary capital metrics.      The Tier I and adjusted tangible common equity ratios vary depending on the size of the balance sheet at quarter-end and the impact of interest rates on unrealized gains
and losses among other factors. The balance sheet size fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on levels of customer and market activity. In general, when servicing clients are more actively trading securities, deposit balances and the balance
sheet as a whole are higher to finance these activities.      Our Tier I capital ratio was 9.32% at Dec. 31, 2007, which is more than 100 basis points above
our principal capital measure target for Tier I capital of 8%. Our adjusted tangible common equity ratio was 4.96% at Dec. 31, 2007 and was in line with our targeted capital ratio of 5% of adjusted tangible common equity.      A billion dollar change in risk-weighted assets changes the Tier I ratio by 7 basis points while a $100 million change in common equity changes the Tier I ratio by 8
basis points.         
    A billion dollar change in assets changes the adjusted tangible common equity ratio by 3 basis points while a $100 million change in common equity changes the adjusted
tangible common equity ratio by 6 basis points.      In July 2007, we raised our common stock dividend to $0.24 cents per share. In January 2008, we declared a
quarterly common stock dividend of $.24 per share that was paid on Feb. 1, 2008.      In 2006, we retained $2.191 billion of earnings. In 2006, we issued $326
million of callable medium-term subordinated notes qualifying as Tier II capital, as well as $650 million of senior debt. During 2006, we entered into a lease transaction recorded as long-term debt of $527 million. We did not call any debt and $525
million of debt matured. Long-term debt at Dec. 31, 2006 totaled $8.773 billion.      In 2005, we retained $927 million of earnings. In 2005, we issued $500
million of noncallable subordinated notes and $285 million of callable medium-term subordinated notes qualifying as Tier II capital, as well as $1 billion of senior debt. During 2005, we called $94 million of higher rate debt and $110 million
of debt matured. Long-term debt increased to $7.817 billion reflecting the transfer of Pershing from the Bank to the Parent.       Stock repurchase programs
      Under our stock repurchase program, we repurchase shares from time to time. The following table discloses our repurchases of our common stock in the
fourth quarter of 2007.       

(a)   
   Amounts include commissions paid which were not significant. Total purchase price in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $19 million.      

(b)   
   Includes 137 thousand shares at a purchase price of approximately $6 million purchased from employees primarily in connection with the employees  payment of taxes upon
the vesting of restricted stock.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     53   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 As disclosed on Aug. 8, 2007, the Executive Committee of the Corporation s Board of Directors authorized the Corporation to repurchase up to
6.5 million shares, a number based on the unused authorization previously given by the Board of Directors of The Bank of New York.      On Dec. 18, 2007,
the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million shares of common stock. This authorization is in addition to the authority to repurchase up to 6.5 million shares previously approved by the Executive
Committee of the Board, of which 5.1 million shares remained at Dec. 31, 2007, resulting in an aggregate of 40.1 million shares available for repurchase at Dec. 31, 2007. There is no expiration date on either repurchase program.

Capital adequacy       Regulators establish certain levels of
capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with established quantitative measurements. For the Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries must,
among other things, qualify as well capitalized. In addition, major bank holding companies such as the Parent are expected by the regulators to be well capitalized. As of Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, the Parent and our bank subsidiaries were considered
well capitalized on the basis of the ratios (defined by regulation) of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and leverage (Tier I capital to average assets), which are shown as follows:   

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Tier I capital consists, generally, of common equity, trust-preferred securities (subject to limitations in 2009), and certain qualifying preferred stock, less goodwill and
most other intangibles.      

(c)   
   Total Capital consists of Tier I capital plus Tier II capital. Tier II capital consists, generally, of certain qualifying preferred stock and subordinated debt and
a portion of the loan loss allowance.              If a bank holding company or bank fails to
qualify as  adequately capitalized , regulatory sanctions and limitations are imposed. At Dec. 31, 2007, the amounts of capital by which BNY Mellon and our primary bank subsidiaries, The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. exceed the
well-capitalized guidelines are as follows:       
    We currently have $2.030 billion of trust preferred securities outstanding, net of issuance costs. On

March 1, 2005, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  FRB ) adopted a final rule that allows the continued limited
inclusion of trust preferred securities in the Tier I capital of bank holding companies (BHCs). Under the final rule, we will be subject to a 15 percent limit in the amount of trust preferred securities that can be included in Tier I capital, net of
goodwill, less any deferred tax liability. Amounts in excess of these limits will be included in Tier II capital. The final rule provides a five-year transition period, ending March 31, 2009, for application of quantitative limits. Under the
transition rules and final rules, we expect all of our trust preferred securities to continue to qualify as Tier I capital. BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries are expected to remain  well capitalized  under the final rule.

54     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The following tables present the components of
our risk-based capital and risk-adjusted assets at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006:       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis.      

(b)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only. Certain balances have been revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     55   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
              Capital framework       The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies  risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the
 Basel Committee ). The Basel Committee issued, in June 2004, and updated in November 2005, a revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known as the New Accord (the  New Accord  or  Basel II ) that would set
capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for credit risk.      In the United States, U.S. regulators are
mandating the adoption of the New Accord for  core  banks. The Bank of New York Mellon is a  core  bank. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach
for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for operational risk.      On Dec. 7, 2007, The U.S. regulatory agencies published the
U.S. Basel II final rule in the Federal Register. The final rule becomes effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2008 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel run and 2009 is the first possible year for a bank to
begin its first of three transitional floor periods.      In the U.S., we are currently working towards implementing Basel II, A-IRB and AMA approaches within
the required deadlines. We began implementing the Basel II Standardized Approach at our foreign subsidiaries as of Jan. 1, 2008. We maintain an active dialogue with regulators in U.S. and international jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II
implementation process.      We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices and that using the advanced approaches, given our portfolio,
could result in a reduction of risk-weighted assets notwithstanding the leverage ratio requirement.         
     
  Risk management       The understanding, identification and management of risk are essential elements for the successful management
of BNY Mellon.      Our primary risk exposures are:       

Type of risk   
     
   Description    
 
     Credit    
     
  The possible loss we would suffer if any of our borrowers or other counterparties were to default on their obligations to us. Credit
risk arises primarily from lending, trading, and securities servicing activities.   

Market    
     
  The risk of loss due to adverse changes in the financial markets. Market risk arises from derivative
financial instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, and other financial instruments, including loans, securities, deposits, and other borrowings. Our market risks are primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risk and, to a
lesser extent, equity and credit risk.   

Operational    
     
  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors and systems,
or from external events.   
    Risk management and oversight begins with the Board of Directors and two key Board committees: the Risk Committee
and the Audit and Examining Committee (the  A E Committee ).      The Risk Committee is comprised of independent directors and meets on a regular
basis to review and assess our risks control processes with respect to such risks, and our risk management and fiduciary policies and activities. The delegation of policy formulation and day-to-day oversight is to our Chief Risk Officer, who,
together with the Chief Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer, helps ensure an effective risk management structure. The functions of the Risk Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website,
www.bnymellon.com.      The A E Committee is also comprised of independent directors, all of whom have been determined by the Board to be financially
literate within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards as interpreted by the Board, and two of whom have been determined (based upon education and experience as a principal accounting or financial officer or public  

56     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 accountant, or experience actively supervising a principal accounting or financial officer or public accountant) to be audit committee financial experts as
set out in the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and to have accounting or related financial management expertise as such qualification under the NYSE listing standards is interpreted by the Board. The A E Committee meets on a
regular basis to perform, among other things, an oversight review of the integrity of our financial statements and financial reporting process, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, our independent registered public accountant s
qualifications and independence, and the performance of our independent registered public accountant and our internal audit function. The A E Committee also reviews management s assessment of the adequacy of internal controls. The functions
of the A E Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website, www.bnymellon.com.      The Senior Risk
Management Committee is the senior-most management body that approves BNY Mellon s risk appetite and tolerances and sets strategic direction and policy and provides oversight for the risk management, compliance and ethics framework.   
  Our risk management framework is designed to:       

Provide that risks are identified, monitored, reported, and priced properly;      

Define and communicate the types and amount of risk to take;      

Communicate to the appropriate management level, the type and amount of risk taken;      

Maintain a risk management organization that is independent of the risk taking activities; and      

Promote a strong risk management culture that encourages a focus on risk-adjusted performance.          Credit risk       To balance the value of our activities with the credit
risk incurred in pursuing them, we set and monitor internal credit limits for activities that entail credit risk, most often on the size of the exposure and the maximum maturity of credit extended. For credit exposures driven by changing market
rates and prices, exposure measures include an add-on for such potential changes.      We manage credit risk at both the individual exposure level as well as
at the portfolio level. Credit risk at the   
   
 individual exposure level is managed through our credit approval system of Divisional Portfolio Managers ( DPMs ) and the Chief Credit Officer
( CCO ). The DPMs and CCO are responsible for approving the size, terms and maturity of all credit exposures as well as the ongoing monitoring of the exposures. In addition, they are responsible for assigning and maintaining the risk
ratings on each exposure.      Credit risk at the portfolio level is managed by the Portfolio Management Division ( PMD ) within the Risk Management
and Compliance Sector. The PMD is responsible for calculating two fundamental credit measures. First, we project a statistically expected credit loss, used to help determine the appropriate loan loss reserve and to measure customer profitability.
Expected loss considers three basic components: the estimated size of the exposure whenever default might occur, the probability of default before maturity, and the severity of the loss we would incur, commonly called  loss given default. 
For corporate banking, where most of our credit risk is created, unfunded commitments are assigned a usage given default percentage. Borrowers/Counterparties are assigned ratings by DPMs and the CCO on an 18-grade scale, which translates to a scaled
probability of default. Additionally, transactions are assigned loss-given-default ratings (on a 12-grade scale) that reflect the transactions  structures including the effects of guarantees, collateral, and relative seniority of position.
     The second fundamental measurement of credit risk calculated by the PMD is called economic capital. Our economic capital model estimates the capital
required to support the overall credit risk portfolio. Using a Monte Carlo simulation engine and measures of correlation among borrower defaults, the economic model examines extreme and highly unlikely scenarios of portfolio credit loss in order to
estimate credit related capital, and then allocates that capital to individual borrowers and exposures. The credit related capital calculation supports a second tier of policy standards and limits by serving as an input to both profitability
analysis and concentration limits of capital at risk with any one borrower, industry or country.      The PMD is responsible for the calculation methodologies
and the estimates of the inputs used in those methodologies for the determination of expected loss and economic capital. These methodologies and input estimates are regularly evaluated to insure their appropriateness and accuracy. As new techniques
and data become available, the PMD attempts to incorporate, where appropriate, those techniques or data.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     57   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 Credit risk is intrinsic to much of the banking business and necessary to its smooth functioning. However, BNY Mellon seeks to limit both on and off-balance
sheet credit risk through prudent underwriting and the use of capital only where risk-adjusted returns warrant. We seek to manage risk and improve our portfolio diversification through syndications, asset sales, credit enhancements, credit
derivatives, and active collateralization and netting agreements. In addition, we have a separate Credit Risk Review group, which is part of Internal Audit, made up of experienced loan review officers who perform timely reviews of the loan files and
credit ratings assigned to the loans.       Market risk       Our market risk governance structure includes two committees comprised of senior executives who review market risk activities, risk measurement methodologies and risk limits, approve new products and provide direction for our market risk
profile. The Asset/Liability Management Committee oversees the market risk management process for interest rate risk related to asset/liability management activities. The Market Risk Committee oversees the market risk management process for trading
activities, including foreign exchange risk. Both committees are supported by a comprehensive risk management process that is designed to help identify, measure, and manage market risk, as discussed under  Trading Activities and Risk
Management  and  Asset/Liability Management  below and in Note 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Operational risk  
      Overview       In providing a comprehensive array of
products and services, we are exposed to operational risk. Operational risk may result from, but is not limited to, errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or
persons outside the corporation or business interruption due to system failures or other events. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and/or
regulatory requirements. In the case of an operational event, we could suffer a financial loss as well as damage to our reputation.      To address these
risks, we maintain comprehensive policies and procedures and an internal control framework designed to provide a sound operational   
   
 environment. These controls have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate levels given our financial strength, the business environment and
markets in which we operate, the nature of our businesses, and considering factors such as competition and regulation. Our internal auditors monitor and test the overall effectiveness of the internal control and financial reporting systems on an
ongoing basis.      We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are
followed on a uniform basis. Among the procedures designed to ensure effectiveness are our  Code of Conduct ,  Know Your Customer , and compliance training programs.       Operational risk management       We have established operational risk management as an independent risk discipline. The
Operational Risk Management ( ORM ) Group reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The organizational framework for operational risk is based upon a strong risk culture that incorporates both governance and risk management activities comprising:

Board Oversight and Governance The Risk Committee of the Board approves and oversees our operational risk management strategy in addition to credit and market
risk. The Risk Committee meets regularly to review and approve operational risk management initiatives, discuss key risk issues, and review the effectiveness of the risk management systems.      

Business Line Accountability Business managers are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls commensurate with their risk profiles
and in accordance with BNY Mellon policies and procedures.      

ORM Group The ORM Group is responsible for developing risk management policies and tools for assessing, measuring, monitoring and managing operational risk for
BNY Mellon. The primary objectives of the ORM group are to promote effective risk management, identify emerging risks, create incentives for generating continuous improvement in controls, and to optimize capital.          Global compliance       Our global compliance function provides
leadership, guidance, and oversight to help business units identify  

58     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 applicable laws and regulations and implement effective measures to meet the specific requirements. Compliance takes a proactive approach by anticipating
evolving regulatory standards and remaining aware of industry best practices, legislative initiatives, competitive issues, and public expectations and perceptions. The function uses its global reach to disseminate information about
compliance-related matters throughout the Corporation. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer reports to the Chief Risk Officer, is a member of all critical committees of the Corporation, and provides regular updates to the A E Committee of the
Board of Directors.       Internal audit       Our internal
audit function reports directly to the A E Committee of the Board of Directors. Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based approach to its audit activity covering the risks in the operational, compliance, regulatory, technology, fraud, processing and
other key risk areas of the Corporation. Internal Audit has unrestricted access to the Corporation and regularly participates in key committees of the Corporation.       Economic Capital       BNY Mellon has implemented a methodology to quantify economic capital. We define economic capital as the capital required
to protect against unexpected economic losses over a one-year period at a level consistent with the solvency of a firm with a target debt rating. We quantify economic capital requirements for the risks inherent in our business activities using
statistical modeling techniques and then aggregate them at the consolidated level. A capital reduction, or diversification benefit, is applied to reflect the unlikely event of experiencing an extremely large loss in each type of risk at the same
time. Economic capital levels are directly related to our risk profile. As such, it has become a part of our internal capital assessment process and, along with regulatory capital, is a key component to ensuring that the actual level of capital is
commensurate with our risk profile, and is sufficient to provide the financial flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives.      The
framework and methodologies to quantify each of our risk-types have been developed by the PMD and are designed to be consistent with our risk management principles. The framework has been approved by senior management and has been

reviewed by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Due to the evolving nature of quantification techniques, we expect to continue to refine the
methodologies used to estimate our economic capital requirements.       Trading activities and risk management       Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers. The risk from these market making activities and from our own positions is managed by
our traders and limited in total exposure as described below.      We manage trading risk through a system of position limits, a value-at-risk
( VAR ) methodology based on a Monte Carlo simulation, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitive measures. Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a separate unit on a daily basis. Based on certain assumptions,
the VAR methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse changes in fair values of all trading positions. The calculation assumes a one-day holding period for most instruments, utilizes a 99% confidence
level, and incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options. The VAR model is the basis for the economic capital calculation, which is allocated to lines of business for computing risk-adjusted performance.      As the VAR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk assessment process includes a number of
stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions. Additional stress scenarios based upon historic market events are also tested. Stress tests, by their design, incorporate the impact
of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations. The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     59   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
             The following tables indicate the calculated VAR
amounts for the trading portfolio for the years ended Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006.       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. Results for 2006 are legacy The Bank of New York
only.      

(b)   
   Value-at-Risk is intended to depict risk by underlying driver, i.e. interest rate, currency exchange rate, or counterparty credit quality. Accordingly, the credit derivative risk
category has been revised to credit.      

N/M   
   - Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.
        During the year 2007, interest rate risk generated 30% of average VAR, credit derivatives generated 20% of average VAR, foreign exchange
accounted for 12% of average VAR, commodities risk generated 21% of average VAR, and equity generated 17% of average VAR. During 2007, our daily trading loss did not exceed our calculated VAR amount on any given day.       
  Asset/liability management       Our diversified business activities include lending, investing in securities, accepting deposits,
processing securities, raising money as needed to fund assets, and other transactions. The market risks from these activities are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. Our primary market risk is exposure to movements in U.S. dollar interest
rates and certain foreign currency interest rates. We actively manage interest rate sensitivity. In addition to gap analysis, we use earnings simulation and discounted cash flow models to identify interest rate exposures.         
    An earnings simulation model is the primary tool used to assess changes in pre-tax net interest revenue. The model incorporates management s assumptions regarding interest rates, balance changes on core deposits,
market spreads, changes in the prepayment behavior of loans and securities, and the impact of derivative financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. These assumptions have been developed through a combination of historical
analysis and future expected pricing behavior. These assumptions are inherently uncertain, and, as a result, the earnings simulation model cannot precisely estimate net interest revenue or the impact of higher or lower interest rates on net interest
revenue. Actual results may differ from projected results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes and changes in market conditions and management s strategies, among other factors.      We evaluate the effect on earnings by running various interest rate ramp scenarios up and down from a baseline scenario, which assumes no changes in interest rates.
These scenarios are reviewed to examine the impact of large interest rate movements. Interest rate sensitivity is quantified by calculating the change in pre-tax net interest revenue between the scenarios over a 12-month measurement period.
     The following table shows net interest revenue sensitivity for The Bank of New York Mellon:       
     bps - basis points.       The baseline scenario s Fed Funds rate in the Dec. 31, 2007 analysis was 4.25%. The 100 basis point ramp scenarios assume short-term rates change 25 basis points in each of the next four quarters, while the 200 basis point ramp
scenarios assume a 50 basis point per quarter change. The down 100 basis point and the down 200 basis point Dec. 31, 2007 scenarios assume 10 year rates decline 41 and 66 basis points, respectively. Both the up 100 basis point and the up 200 basis
point Dec. 31, 2007 scenarios assume a steepening of the yield curve with 10-year rates rising 134 and 234 basis points, respectively. These scenarios do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate

60     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
            
 expectations change. The previous table relies on certain critical assumptions including depositors  behavior related to interest rate fluctuations and
the prepayment and extension risk in certain of our assets. To the extent that actual behavior is different from that assumed in the models, there could be a change in interest rate sensitivity.      We also project future cash flows from our assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon and then discount these cash flows using the same assumptions noted above. The
aggregation of these discounted cash flows is the Economic Value of Equity ( EVE ). The following table shows how the EVE would change in response to changes in interest rates:       

bps   
   - basis points.         These results do not reflect strategies that
management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change.      The asymmetrical accounting treatment of the impact of a change in
interest rates on our balance sheet may create a situation in which an increase in interest rates can adversely affect reported equity and regulatory capital, even though economically there may be no impact on our economic capital position. For
example, an increase in rates will result in a decline in the value of our fixed income investment portfolio, which will be reflected through a reduction in other comprehensive income in our shareholders  equity, thereby affecting the adjusted
tangible common equity (TCE) ratio. Under current accounting rules, to the extent FAS 159-Fair-value option is not applied, there is no corresponding change on our fixed liabilities, even though economically these liabilities are more valuable as
rates rise.      We project the impact of this change using the same interest rate ramp up assumptions described earlier and comparing the projected
mark-to-market on the investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2007, under the higher rate environments versus a stable rate   
   
 scenario. The table below shows the impact of a change in interest rates on the adjusted TCE ratio:       

bps   
   - basis points.         These results do not reflect strategies that
management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change.      To manage foreign exchange risk, we fund foreign currency-denominated
assets with liability instruments denominated in the same currency. We utilize various foreign exchange contracts if a liability denominated in the same currency is not available or desired, and to minimize the earnings impact of translation gains
or losses created by investments in overseas markets. The foreign exchange risk related to the interest rate spread on foreign currency-denominated asset/liability positions is managed as part of our trading activities. We use forward foreign
exchange contracts to protect the value of our net investment in foreign operations. At Dec. 31, 2007, net investments in foreign operations totaled approximately $6.662 billion and were spread across 12 foreign currencies.       
  Business continuity       We are prepared for events that could damage our physical facilities, cause delay or disruptions to
operational functions, including telecommunications networks, or impair our clients, vendors, and counterparties. Key elements of our business continuity strategies are extensive planning and testing, and diversity of business operations, data
centers and telecommunications infrastructure.      We have established multiple geographically diverse locations for our funds transfer and broker-dealer
services operational units, which provide redundant functionality to facilitate uninterrupted operations.      Our securities clearing, mutual fund accounting
and custody, securities lending, master trust, UIT, corporate trust, stock transfer, item processing, wealth management and treasury units have common functionality in multiple sites designed to facilitate continuance of operations or rapid
recovery. In  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     61   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       
      
 addition, we have recovery positions for over 11,500 employees on a global basis.      We continue to enhance geographic diversity for business operations by moving additional personnel to growth centers outside of existing major urban centers. We replicate 100% of our critical production computer data
to multiple recovery data centers.      We have an active telecommunications diversity program. All major buildings and data centers have diverse
telecommunications carriers. The data centers have multiple fiber optic rings and have been designed so that there is no single point of failure. All major buildings have been designed with diverse telecommunications access and connect to at least
two geographically dispersed connection points. We have an active program to audit circuits for route diversity and to test customer back-up connections.      In 2003, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Securities and Exchange Commission jointly published the Interagency Paper,  Sound Practices to Strengthen the
Resilience of the U.S. Financial System  ( Sound Practices Paper ). The purpose of the document was to define the guidelines for the financial services industry and other interested parties regarding  best practices  related
to business continuity planning. Under these guidelines we are a key clearing and settlement organization required to meet a higher standard for business continuity.      We believe we have substantially met all of the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper. As a core clearing and settlement organization, we believe that we are at the forefront of the industry in improving business
continuity practices.      We are committed to seeing that requirements for business continuity are met not just within our own facilities, but also within
those of vendors and service   
   
 providers whose operation is critical to our safety and soundness. To that end, we have a Service Provider Management Office whose function is to review new
and existing service providers and vendors to see that they meet our standards for business continuity, as well as for information security, financial stability, personnel practices, etc.      We have developed a comprehensive plan to prepare for the possibility of a flu pandemic, which anticipates significant reduced staffing levels and will provide for
increased remote working by staff for one or more periods lasting several weeks.      Although we are committed to observing best practices as well as meeting
regulatory requirements, geopolitical uncertainties and other external factors will continue to create risk that cannot always be identified and anticipated.       
  The Bank of New York historical earnings per share and average shares outstanding       In the merger transaction between The Bank
of New York and Mellon, The Bank of New York shareholders received .9434 shares of BNY Mellon common stock for each share of The Bank of New York common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. Mellon shareholders received one share
of BNY Mellon common stock for each share of Mellon common stock outstanding on the closing date of the merger. The table below converts earnings per share and average shares outstanding for legacy The Bank of New York into post-merger share count
terms.      In addition, all authorized, issued, treasury stock and loan to ESOP share amounts have been adjusted for the conversion ratio of .9434 described
above. In the merger transaction, all shares of treasury stock of The Bank of New York and Mellon were cancelled and retired.   
             
   62     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    Results of Operations    (continued)       

Supplemental information   Reconciliation of diluted earnings per share   GAAP to non-GAAP       Reported amounts are
presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP information is useful to the investment community in analyzing the financial results and trends of our business. We believe they facilitate   
   
 comparisons with prior periods and reflect the principal basis on which our management internally monitors financial performance. These non-GAAP items also
are excluded from our segment measures used internally to evaluate segment performance because management does not consider them particularly relevant or useful in evaluating the operating performance of our business segments.   

(b)   
   Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(c)   
   Amounts do not foot due to rounding.      

(d)   
   Results include $118 million after-tax, or $0.13 per share resulting from writedown of CDOs.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     63   

Table of Contents  

SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION            

(a)   
   Changes which are solely due to balance changes or rate changes are allocated to such categories on the basis of the respective percentage changes in average balances and average
rates. Changes in interest revenue or interest expense arising from the combination of rate and volume variances are allocated proportionately to rate and volume based on their relative absolute magnitudes.            
   64     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS                 
  SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurement       In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 ( SFAS 157 ),  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. Under this framework, a three-level hierarchy has been established based on the transparency of the inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability. SFAS 157
clarifies that fair value is the amount that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS 157 nullifies the consensus reached in EITF Issue No. 02-3 prohibiting
the recognition of day one gain or loss on derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair value under SFAS 133 as modified by SFAS 155) where we cannot verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and
verify the model to market transactions. However, SFAS 157 requires that a fair value measurement technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a particular valuation technique (such as a pricing model) and/or the risks inherent in the
inputs to the model if market participants would also include such an adjustment. SFAS 157 will require us to consider the effect of our own credit standing in determining the fair value of our liabilities. In addition, SFAS 157 prohibits
the recognition of  block discounts  for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market. The requirements of SFAS 157 are to be applied prospectively,
except for changes in fair value measurements that result from the initial application of SFAS 157 to existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue No. 02-3, existing hybrid instruments measured at fair value, and
block discounts, which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption.      We adopted SFAS 157 as of
Jan. 1, 2008. We believe the adoption of SFAS 157 will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations and we estimate that less than 5% of our assets and liabilities measured at fair value will be in the lowest
tier of the fair value hierarchy.       EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10 Split-Dollar Life Insurance       In September 2006, the FASB ratified Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 06-4,  Postretirement   
   
 Benefits Associated with Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements,  and EITF 06-10,  Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life
Insurance Arrangements,  respectively. EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10 address endorsement and collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance arrangements, respectively, that provide a benefit to an employee that extends to postretirement
periods. An endorsement split-dollar policy is owned and controlled by the employer. However, a collateral assignment policy is owned and controlled by the employee. Both policy arrangements provide that the employer and an employee split the
insurance policy s cash surrender value and/or death benefits.      The EITFs require that the deferred compensation or postretirement benefit aspects of
the split-dollar life insurance arrangements be recognized as a liability by the employer because the obligation is not effectively settled by the purchase of a life insurance policy. The liability for future benefits will be recognized based on the
substantive agreement with the employee, which may be either to provide a future death benefit or to pay for the future cost of the life insurance. At adoption, any net liability recognized will be recorded as a direct adjustment to the beginning
balance of retained earnings and reported as a change in accounting principle.      Both EITFs were effective Jan. 1, 2008. The adoption of these EITFs
require us to record a liability, in accordance with FAS 106, of approximately $28 million with an offsetting debit to retained earnings of approximately $18 million (after-tax).       SFAS No. 159 Fair-Value Option       In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 ( SFAS
159 ),  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  SFAS 159 provides companies with an irrevocable option to elect fair value as the measurement basis for selected financial assets, financial
liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments which are not subject to fair value under other accounting standards. There is a one-time election available to apply this standard to existing financial instruments as of Jan.
1, 2008; otherwise, the fair value option will be available for financial instruments on their initial transaction date. The first re-measurement of existing financial instruments for which the option is elected will be recorded as an adjustment to
retained earnings. For financial instruments for which the election has  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     65   

Table of Contents  

    RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS    (continued)     
               
 been made, changes in the fair value subsequent to initial adoption are recorded in earnings. SFAS 159 also requires companies to provide additional
information that will help investors and other users of financial statements to understand more easily the effect on earnings of the company s choice to use fair value. In addition, it requires companies to display the fair value of those
assets and liabilities for which they have chosen to use fair value on the face of the balance sheet.      We adopted SFAS 159 along with SFAS 157 on
Jan. 1, 2008. We elected the fair value option for $390 million of existing loans and unfunded loan commitments where the related credit risks are managed utilizing other financial instruments which are fair valued in earnings. This election
better aligns the accounting and reflects our risk management practices. As a result of adopting the fair value option on these loans and commitments, we will record a charge to retained earnings as of Jan. 1, 2008 of approximately $36 million,
after-tax.       FSP No. FIN 39-1 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39       In April 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FIN 39-1 ( FSP 39-1 )  Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39.  FSP 39-1 permits offsetting of fair value amounts recognized for the
right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangements, and
amends FIN No. 39 to replace the terms  conditional contracts  and  exchange contracts  with the term  derivative instruments , as defined in FAS 133. We adopted this FSP on Jan. 1, 2008. The impact of adopting FSP
39-1 is immaterial to our balance sheet.       SOP 07-1 Investment Companies       In June 2007, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the AICPA issued Statement of Position ( SOP ) 07-1,  Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide  Investment
Companies  and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies.  SOP 07-1 provides guidance for determining whether an entity is an  investment company,  as defined, and whether
the specialized industry accounting principles for investment companies should be retained in the   
   
 consolidated financial statements of the parent or of an equity method investor.      This new standard was expected to be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after Dec. 15, 2007. However, in October 2007, the FASB delayed the effective date of SOP 07-1 indefinitely primarily because of
concerns over implementation issues arising from the interaction between the SOP and SFAS 157 and SFAS 159 and because of the short implementation period between its issuance and its effective date. For entities that have not yet adopted the
provisions of SOP 07-1, early adoption will not be permitted during the indefinite deferral. A new effective date will be determined after the FASB addresses implementation issues and potential amendments.       SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests       In December 2007,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 ( SFAS 160 ),  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51.  SFAS 160 amends ARB No. 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards for
the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary (i.e. minority interest) and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This statement applies to all entities that prepare consolidated financial statements. This statement requires that noncontrolling
interests in a subsidiary is part of the equity of the controlling group and is to be reported on the balance sheet within the equity section separately from BNY Mellon as a distinct item. The equity section of the balance sheet will be required to
present equity attributable to both controlling and noncontrolling interests. The carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest is adjusted to reflect the change in ownership interest, and any difference between the amount by which the
noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity attributable to the noncontrolling interest (i.e., as additional paid in capital). Any transaction that results in the
loss of control of a subsidiary is considered a remeasurement event with any retained interest remeasured at fair value. The gain or loss recognized in income includes both the realized gain or loss related to the portion of the ownership interest
sold and the gain or loss on the remeasurement to fair value of the retained interest.      We expect to adopt SFAS 160 on Jan. 1, 2009. This statement is to
be applied prospectively as of Jan. 1, 2009, except for the presentation requirements. The  

66     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS    (continued)     
               
 disclosure requirements are to be applied retroactively for all periods presented. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 160.       EITF 07-1 Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements       In
December 2007, the FASB ratified EITF No. 07-1,  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Relating to the Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property.  This EITF defines a collaborative arrangement and establishes
disclosure requirements such as income statement classifications and amounts attributable to transactions arising from collaborative arrangements, as well as information regarding the nature and purpose of the collaborative arrangement, the
collaborators  rights and obligations under the arrangement, and any accounting policies. EITF 07-1 is effective Jan. 1, 2009. The requirements would be applied as a change in accounting principle through retrospective application to all prior
periods presented for collaborative arrangements existing as of Jan. 1, 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact of EITF 07-1.         
     SFAS No. 141 (revised) Business Combinations  
     In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007) ( SFAS 141 (R) ),  Business Combinations.  SFAS 141
(R) requires all acquisitions of businesses to be measured at the fair value of the business acquired rather than the cost-based provision that SFAS No. 141 had carried forward. This statement would require deal costs, such as legal,
investment banking, and due diligence cost to be expensed as incurred. Back-end contingent payments would be recorded up front at fair value. Subsequent fair value changes would be recorded as income. The fair value of equity securities of the
acquirer issued as consideration would be measured at the acquisition date rather than at the agreement date; accordingly, the purchase price and goodwill would not be known until closing. Restructuring or exit activities will no longer be
considered an assumed liability of the acquired entity but will be expensed as incurred. This statement applies to business combination transactions completed subsequent to Dec. 31, 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 141 (R).
      Adoption of new accounting standards       For a
discussion of the adoption of new accounting standards, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     67   

Table of Contents  

FOURTH QUARTER 2007 REVIEW                 
 Net income for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $520 million, or $.45 per share, compared with $1.625 billion, or $2.27 per share, in the fourth quarter of
2006. The fourth quarter of 2007 included an extraordinary (loss) of $180 million, net of tax, associated with management s decision to restructure and consolidate the assets of the bank-sponsored conduit, TRFC. (See discussion on pages 16 and
17). Net income for the fourth quarter of 2006 included a net after-tax gain of $1.217 billion from the sale of our Retail Business. Income from continuing operations, before extraordinary loss was $700 million and diluted earnings per share was
$.61 in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared with $427 million and $.60 per share in the fourth quarter of 2006. Continuing operations returned 9.5% on equity in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared with 15.0% in the fourth quarter of 2006.
     Income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2007 included merger and integration expense of $69 million after-tax or approximately $.06
per share. Results in the fourth quarter of 2007 also included a pre-tax loss of $200 million ($118 million after-tax or $.10 per share) for other than temporary impairment related to collateralized debt obligations, in our securities portfolio,
that contained subprime exposure.      During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the ABN AMRO Mellon Global Securities
Services B.V. joint venture.      Fee and other revenue comprised 80% of total revenue, on an FTE basis, in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with 76% in
the fourth quarter of 2006. Fee and other revenue increased to $3.044 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007, an increase of 111% from $1.441 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006, primarily due to increases in asset and wealth management fees,
securities servicing fees, and foreign exchange and other trading activities. The increase in asset and wealth management fees reflected the merger with Mellon as well as new business and higher equity market levels. The increase in securities
servicing fees reflects: the merger with Mellon, as well as higher asset servicing fees due to increased client activity related to market volatility and net new business; higher issuer services fees reflecting a strong quarter in Depositary
Receipts; and higher clearing and execution services fees due to increased activity resulting from market volatility along with continued growth in money market and   
   
 mutual fund positions. Foreign exchange and other trading activities increased mainly due to the merger with Mellon, higher client volumes, a significant
increase in currency volatility, as well as a higher valuation of the credit derivatives portfolio.      Net interest revenue on an FTE basis was $757 million,
an increase of $305 million compared to $452 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. The increase reflects the merger with Mellon as well as a strong flow of client deposits together with the benefit from Federal Reserve interest rate reductions.
     Total noninterest expense was $2.749 billion in the fourth quarter of 2007, an increase of $1.464 billion compared with $1.285 billion in the fourth
quarter of 2006. Excluding merger and integration expenses and the amortization of intangible assets, operating expense increased $1.260 billion compared with the fourth quarter of 2006. This increase reflects the merger with Mellon as well as
increased professional, legal and other purchased services, net occupancy, furniture and equipment, business development and other expense primarily due to business growth, strategic initiatives and the impact of acquisitions. Operating expense also
reflects the benefit of $96 million in merger-related expense synergies in the fourth quarter of 2007.      The effective tax rate was 31.8% in the fourth
quarter of 2007, compared with 31.2% in the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding merger and integration expense, the tax rate was 33.2% in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared with 31.3% in the fourth quarter of 2006.   

68     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited)             (a)                               

(a)   
   Third quarter and fourth quarter of 2007 reflect the results of the combined company while the results for the first and second quarters of 2007 and all periods in 2006 reflect
legacy The Bank of New York only. Results for fourth quarter of 2006 have been revised, see Note 2.      

(b)   
   All share-related data is presented in post-merger share count terms.      

(c)   
   Amount does not foot due to rounding.      

(d)   
   Prior periods calculated on a continuing operations basis even though the balance sheet, in accordance with GAAP, is not restated for discontinued operations.

(e)   
   Continuing operations basis.      

(g)   
   At period end.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     69   

Table of Contents  

    SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA (unaudited)             (a)                   (continued)                     
  Fourth quarter 2007 compared with the fourth quarter of 2006   (a)           See discussion on page 68 of this report.       Third quarter of 2007 compared with the third quarter of 2006   (a)           On July 1, 2007, we completed our merger with Mellon Financial
Corporation. Both companies merged into a new holding company named The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. As a result, the financial results for the third quarter of 2007 include three months of the combined company s results, while the
results of the third quarter 2006 represent legacy The Bank of New York only. Consolidated net income was $640 million, and diluted earnings per share was $.56 in the third quarter of 2007, compared with net income of $352 million, or $.49 per share
in the third quarter of 2006. Third quarter 2007 income from continuing operations was $642 million, and diluted earnings per share was $.56, compared with income from continuing operations of $298 million, or $.41 per share in the third quarter of
2006. The third quarter of 2007 included merger and integration expenses of $218 million (pre-tax), or approximately $.11 per share. Excluding this amount, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2007 was $.67
per share. The third quarter of 2006 included merger and integration expenses of $89 million (pre-tax), or approximately $.09 per share. Excluding this amount, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2006 was
$.50 per share. Fee and other revenue was $2.931 billion in the third quarter of 2007 compared with $1.263 billion in the third quarter of 2006. The increase in fee and other revenue was primarily due to the merger with Mellon, the Acquired
Corporate Trust Business, net new business and higher equity market levels. Return on common equity on a continuing operations basis was 8.89% in the third quarter of 2007, compared with 11.61% in the third quarter of 2006.       Second quarter of 2007 compared with the second quarter of 2006   (a)           We reported second quarter 2007 net income of $445 million and diluted
earnings per share of $.62, and   
   
 income from continuing operations of $448 million and diluted earnings per share of $.62. This compares to net income of $448 million, or $.62 of diluted
earnings per share, and income from continuing operations of $391 million, or $.54 of diluted earnings per share, in the second quarter of 2006. The second quarter of 2007 included merger and integration expenses of $47 million (pre-tax) that
amounted to approximately $.04 per share. Excluding this amount, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2007 was $.66 per share.      Performance highlights for the quarter include asset servicing growth of 17% over the second quarter of 2006, a record quarterly level reflecting increased transaction volumes and organic growth across all business
products; asset and wealth management fees were up 25% over the second quarter of 2006 reflecting organic growth; and, good expense discipline drove positive operating leverage (excluding merger and integration expense).       First quarter of 2007 compared with the first quarter of 2006   (a)           We reported first quarter net income of $434 million and diluted earnings
per share of $.60. Excluding merger and integration costs, first quarter net income was $444 million and diluted earnings per share was $.62. This compares to net income of $422 million, or $.58 of diluted earnings per share, and income from
continuing operations of $360 million, or $.49 of diluted earnings per share in the first quarter of 2006.      Performance highlights for the quarter include
asset servicing revenue growth of 17% over the first quarter of 2006, driven by custody, fund services, and broker-dealer services; asset and wealth management fees were up 20% over the first quarter of 2006, reflecting organic growth; and good
expense discipline drove positive operating leverage.       

( a)   
   Quarterly data for the first and second quarters of 2007 and all periods of 2006 represent legacy The Bank of New York only. All earnings per share data is presented in
post-merger share count terms.      
       
   70     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL CERTIFICATION                 
 Because our common stock is listed on the NYSE, our Chief Executive Officer is required to make an annual certification to the NYSE stating that he was not
aware of any violation by BNY Mellon of the Corporate Governance Listing Standards of the NYSE. The Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York and Mellon each submitted this annual certification to the NYSE for 2007, and our Chief Executive
Officer will do so after our 2008 Annual   
   
 Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with NYSE rules. We filed an Interim Written Affirmation for BNY Mellon with the NYSE on July 12, 2007.
     We have filed with the SEC the certification required to be made by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer under Section 302 of the
Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, as exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     71   

Table of Contents  

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS                 
 Some statements in this document are forward-looking. These include all statements about the future results of BNY Mellon, projected business growth,
statements with respect to the merger of The Bank of New York and Mellon with and into BNY Mellon, expectations with respect to operations after the merger, the expected outcome of legal, regulatory and investigatory proceedings, predicted loan
losses, and BNY Mellon s plans, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to: expected annual expense synergies; total merger and integration costs; the expected increase in the percentage of revenue and
income from outside the U.S.; the expected increase in the level of fee revenue per employee; targeted capital ratios; reasons why our businesses are compatible with our strategies and goals; our projected effective tax rate for 2008; the
anticipated effects of the consolidation of TRFC, including improved profitability, improved adjusted tangible common equity ratio, the accretive effect of the TRFC consolidation, the timing of the integration of TRFC s assets into our
investment portfolio and the timing of elimination of TRFC s commercial paper; the impact of any capital support agreements, factors that could affect projected fee revenue, including allowance for credit reserves and valuation models;
assumptions with respect to pension plans, including expected future contributions and benefit payments; reduction in principal of the CDO portfolio; expectations with respect to receipt of an in-kind vertical slice of underlying assets from a SIV
if there is a liquidation; adequacy of reserves, including reserves for SIV exposure; the effect of a significant reduction in securities servicing business on deposits; expectations with respect to capital, including anticipated repayment and call
of outstanding debt and issuance of replacement securities; expectations with respect to securities lending guarantees expiring without the need to advance cash; matters relating to Old Slip Funding LLC, including the impact of any consolidation if
it were to occur; expectations with respect to the well-capitalized status of BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries; the effects of the implementation of Basel II; compliance with the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper; effect of geopolitical
factors and other external factors; timing and impact of adoption of recent accounting pronouncements; impact of the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the ABN AMRO Mellon joint venture; ability to realize benefit of deferred tax assets
including carryovers; likelihood that results of open tax years will affect Tax Reserves; amount of dividends bank subsidiaries can pay without regulatory waiver; resolution of matters relating to LILO transactions and impact of those resolutions;
potential impact of review of corporate trust business; impact of   
   
 judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings, including the claims raised by The Federal Customs
Service of The Russian Federation and matters relating to the information returns, and withholding tax returns for the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.      In this report, any other report, any press release or any written or oral statement that the Company or its executives may make, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate, 
 confident,   target,   expect,   intend,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will, 
 strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements.      Factors that could cause BNY Mellon s results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, as well as other uncertainties affecting future results and the value of BNY Mellon s stock and factors
which represent risks associated with the business and operations of BNY Mellon, can be found in the  Risk Factors  section of BNY Mellon s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007, and any subsequent reports
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Commission ) by BNY Mellon pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ).      Forward-looking statements, including discussions and projections of future results of operations and discussions of future plans contained in the MD A, are based on management s current expectations and
assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s control), including adverse changes in market conditions and the timing of such changes,
and the actions that management could take in response to these changes. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties and the risks and uncertainties described in the documents
referred to in the preceding paragraph. The  Risk Factors  discussed in the Form 10-K could cause or contribute to such differences. Investors should consider all risks mentioned elsewhere in this document and in subsequent reports filed
by BNY Mellon with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, as well as other uncertainties affecting future results and the value of BNY Mellon s stock.      All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking
statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.   
       
   72     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

GLOSSARY                 
  Accumulated Benefit Obligation ( ABO )  The actuarial present value of benefits (vested and non-vested) attributed to employee services
rendered.       Adjusted tangible shareholders  equity to assets  Shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangible assets divided by total
assets less goodwill and intangible assets. Adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible identifiable intangible assets.       Alternative investments  Usually refers to investments in hedge funds, leveraged loans, subordinated and distressed debt, real estate and foreign currency overlay. Many hedge funds pursue strategies that are uncommon relative to
mutual funds. Examples of alternative investment strategies are: long-short equity, event driven, statistical arbitrage, fixed income arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, short bias, global macro, and equity market neutral.       Assets under custody and administration  Assets held in a fiduciary capacity for which various services are provided such as; custody, accounting,
administration valuations and performance measurement. These assets are not on our balance sheet.       Assets under management  Assets held in a
fiduciary capacity that are either actively or passively managed. These assets are not on our balance sheet.       Collateral management  A
comprehensive program designed to simplify collateralization and expedite securities transfers for buyers and sellers. The Corporation acting as an independent collateral manager is positioned between the buyer and seller to provide a convenient,
flexible, and efficient service to ensure proper collateralization throughout the term of the transaction. The service includes verification of securities eligibility and maintenance of margin requirements.       Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDOs)  A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product that gain exposure to the credit of a portfolio of
fixed-income assets and divide the credit risk among different tranches.       Credit derivatives  Contractual agreements that provide insurance
against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. The nature of the credit event is established by the buyer and seller at the inception of the transaction, such events include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations

when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a contingent payment by the seller (insurer) following a credit event.
      Credit risk  The risk of loss due to borrower or counterparty default.       Cross-currency swaps  Contracts that generally involve the exchange of both interest and principal amounts in two different currencies. Also see interest rate swaps in this glossary.       Depositary Receipts ( DR )  A negotiable security that generally represents a non-U.S. company s publicly traded equity. Although typically
denominated in U.S. dollars, depositary receipts can also be denominated in Euros. Depositary receipts are eligible to trade on all U.S. stock exchanges and many European stock exchanges. American depositary receipts ( ADR ) trade
only in the U.S.       Derivative  A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of
securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices.       Discontinued operations  The operating
results of a component of an entity, as defined by SFAS No. 144, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management s intention to sell the component.       Double leverage  The situation that exists when a holding company s equity investments in wholly-owned subsidiaries (including goodwill and intangibles)
exceed its equity capital. Double leverage is created when a bank holding company issues debt and downstreams the proceeds to a subsidiary as an equity investment.       Economic Value of Equity ( EVE )  An aggregation of discounted future cash flows of assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon.       Exchange Traded Fund ( ETF )  Each share of an ETF tracks a basket of stocks in some index or benchmark, providing investors with a vehicle that closely parallels the performance of these benchmarks while allowing for
intraday trading.       FASB  Financial Accounting Standards Board.       Foreign currency options  Similar to interest rate options except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also see interest rate options in this glossary.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     73   

Table of Contents  

    GLOSSARY    (continued)                      Foreign currency swaps  An agreement
to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future dates.       Foreign exchange contracts  Contracts that
provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms.       Forward rate agreements  Contracts to exchange
payments on a specified future date, based on a market change in interest rates from trade date to contract settlement date.       Fully Taxable Equivalent
( FTE )  Basis for comparison of yields on assets having ordinary taxability with assets for which special tax exemptions apply. The FTE adjustment reflects an increase in the interest yield or return on a tax-exempt asset to a
level that would be comparable had the asset been fully taxable.       Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP )  Accounting rules
and conventions defining acceptable practices in preparing financial statements in the U.S. The FASB is the primary source of accounting rules.       Granularity  Refers to the amount of concentration in the credit portfolio due to large individual exposures. One measure of granularity is the amount of economic capital attributable to an exposure. As the average economic
capital per exposure declines, the portfolio is considered to be more granular.       Hedge fund  A fund, usually used by wealthy individuals and
institutions, which is allowed to use aggressive strategies that are unavailable to mutual funds, including selling short, leverage, program trading, swaps, arbitrage, and derivatives. Hedge funds are exempt from many of the rules and regulations
governing mutual funds, which allow them to accomplish aggressive investing goals. Legal requirements in many countries allow only certain sophisticated investors to participate in hedge funds.       Interest rate options, including caps and floors  Contracts to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a premium when the contract is
initiated. As a writer of interest rate options, we receive a premium in exchange for bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely, as a purchaser of an option, we pay a premium for the right, but not the obligation, to buy
or sell a financial instrument or currency at predetermined terms in the future.         
     Interest rate sensitivity  The exposure of net
interest income to interest rate movements.       Interest rate swaps  Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency is
exchanged over a prescribed period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities. An example of a situation in which we would utilize an interest rate swap would be to
convert our fixed-rate debt to a variable rate. By entering into the swap, the principal amount of the debt would remain unchanged, but the interest streams would change.       Investment grade loans and commitments  Those where the customer has a Moody s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard   Poor s long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if
unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings       Invoiced services  Services provided by global payment services for which the
customer can choose to pay directly or by leaving a compensating balance.       Joint venture  A company or entity owned and operated by a group of
companies for a specific business purpose, no one of which has a majority interest.       Lease-In-Lease-Out ( LILO ) transaction  A
transaction in which a person or entity leases property from the owner for a specified time period and then leases the property back to that owner for a shorter time period. The obligations of the property owner as sublessee are usually secured by
deposits, letters of credit, or marketable securities.       Leverage ratio  Tier I Capital divided by leverage assets. Leverage assets are
defined as quarterly average total assets, net of goodwill, intangibles and certain other items as required by the Federal Reserve.       Liquidity
risk  The risk of being unable to fund our portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price.       Loans for purchasing or carrying securities  Loans primarily to brokers and dealers in securities.       Margin loans  A loan that is used to purchase shares of stock. The shares purchased are used as collateral for the loan.      
       
   74     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    GLOSSARY    (continued)                      Mark-to-market exposure  A measure,
at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-market is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes us and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for us. When the mark-to-market is
negative, we owe the counterparty. In this situation, we do not have repayment risk.       Market risk  The potential loss in value of portfolios and
financial instruments caused by movements in market variables, such as interest and foreign-exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices.       Master netting agreement  An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination
of any one contract.       N/A  Not applicable.       N/M  Not meaningful.       Net interest margin  The result of dividing net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets.
      Operating leverage  The rate of increase in revenue to the rate of increase in expenses.       Operational risk  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events.       Performance fees  Fees paid to an investment advisor based upon the fund s performance for the period relative to various predetermined benchmarks.
      Pre-tax operating margin (FTE)  Income before tax on an FTE basis for a period divided by total revenue on an FTE basis for that period.
      Projected Benefit Obligation ( PBO )  The actuarial present value of all benefits accrued on employee service rendered prior to the
calculation date, including allowance for future salary increases if the pension benefit is based on future compensation levels.       Return on
assets  Annualized income divided by average assets.       Return on tangible common equity  Annualized income, excluding amortization
expense of intangible assets, divided by average tangible shareholders  equity.         
     Return on equity  Annualized income divided by
average shareholders  equity.       Securities lending short-term investment fund  For some of our securities lending clients, we invest the
cash collateral received in the customer s securities lending transactions in a short-term highly liquid commingled investment fund. The fund is rated AAA by Standard   Poor s and started operation in 2003.       Securities lending transaction  A fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (BNY Mellon)
to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, oversight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days.       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )  Statement published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.       Structured Investment Vehicle ( SIV )  A fund which borrows money by issuing short-term securities at low interest and then lends money by buying long-term securities at higher interest, making a
profit for investors from the difference.       Sub-custodian  A local provider (e.g., a bank) contracted by us to provide specific custodial related
services in a selected country or geographic area. Services generally include holding foreign securities in safekeeping, facilitating settlements and reporting holdings to the custodian.       Tangible common equity ratio ( TCE )  The percentage computed by dividing common shareholders  equity less intangibles and goodwill by period-end total assets less intangibles and goodwill.
      Tangible shareholders  equity  Shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangibles.       Tier I and total capital  Includes common shareholders  equity (excluding certain components of comprehensive income), qualifying trust-preferred
securities and minority interest in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain intangible assets, and a deduction for certain non-financial equity investments. Total capital includes Tier I capital, as well as
qualifying subordinated debt and the reserve for credit losses.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     75   

Table of Contents  

    GLOSSARY    (continued)                      Unfunded commitments  Legally binding
agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date.       Unit Investment Trust ( UIT )  A sponsor-created
portfolio of securities. Like mutual funds, these securities portfolios are designed to meet specific investment objectives. However, unlike a mutual fund, a UIT is an unmanaged portfolio consisting of securities that are fixed at the UIT s
initiation and generally remain unchanged over the security s life.         
     Value at Risk ( VAR )  A measure of the
dollar amount of potential loss at a specified confidence level from adverse market movements in an ordinary market environment.       Variable Interest
Entity ( VIE )  An entity that: (1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the right
to make significant decisions affecting the entity s operations; and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity s losses or returns.   
       
   76     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING                 
 Management of the Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Corporation, as such
term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      The Corporation s management, including its principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, has assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of   
   
 the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based upon such assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2007,
the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.      KPMG LLP, the independent registered public
accounting firm that audited the 2007 financial statements included in this Annual Report under  Financial Statements and Notes,  has issued a report with respect to the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over
financial reporting. This report appears on page 78.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     77   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM                 The Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited The Bank of New
York Mellon Corporation s ( the Corporation ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
     We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the
Corporation as of December 31, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the year then ended, and our report dated February 27, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion
on those consolidated financial statements.     

      New York, New York      February 27, 2008         
   78     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT                  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     79   

Table of Contents  

    CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT    (continued)   

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. All other periods reflect legacy The Bank of New
York only. Certain prior period amounts have been revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(b)   
   All earnings per share data and average shares outstanding are presented in post-merger share count terms.      

(c)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.          See accompanying Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   80     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET              
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only. Certain prior period balances have been revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(b)   
   Par value, authorized, issued, treasury stock and loan to ESOP shares at Dec. 31, 2006 have been restated in post merger share count terms.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     81   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS            
      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. All other periods reflect legacy The Bank of New
York only.      

(b)   
   Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   82     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY                  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)        

(a)   
   Certain prior period balances have been revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.          

See   
   accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.            
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     83   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                        
  1. Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies        Basis of Presentation       The accounting and financial reporting policies of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a global financial
services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and prevailing industry practices. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Amounts subject to significant estimates and assumptions are items such as the reserve for loans losses and lending-related commitments, goodwill and intangibles, pension and
post-retirement obligations, and the fair value of financial instruments. Actual results could differ from these estimates.      In addition to discontinued
operations (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), certain other prior year information has been reclassified to conform its presentation with the 2007 financial statements.      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. Equity investments of less than a majority but at least 20% ownership are
accounted for by the equity method and classified as other assets. Earnings on these investments are reflected in fee and other revenue as securities servicing fees, asset and wealth management fees or investment income, as appropriate, in the
period earned. Our most significant equity method investments are:       
    The income statement and balance sheet include results of acquired businesses accounted for under the purchase
method of accounting pursuant to SFAS No. 141  Business Combinations , and equity investments from the dates of acquisition. We record any contingent purchase payments when the amounts are resolved and become payable.      The Parent Corporation financial statements in Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Parent Corporation; those of a
wholly owned financing subsidiary that functions as a financing entity for   
   
 BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries by issuing commercial paper and other debt guaranteed by BNY Mellon; and MIPA, LLC, a single member company, created to hold
and administer corporate owned life insurance. Financial data for the Parent Corporation, the financing subsidiary and the single member company are combined for financial reporting purposes because of the limited function of these entities and the
unconditional guarantee by BNY Mellon of their obligations.      We consider the underlying facts and circumstances of individual transactions when assessing
whether or not an entity is a potential variable interest entity (VIE). BNY Mellon s assessment focuses on the dispersion of risks and rewards attributable to the potential VIE. VIEs are entities in which equity investors do not have the
characteristics of a controlling financial interest. A company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and thus required to consolidate a VIE if the company has a variable interest (or combination of variable interests) that will absorb a majority
of the VIE s expected losses, that will receive a majority of the VIE s expected residual returns, or both. A  variable interest  is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the
VIE s net assets.  Expected losses  and  expected residual returns  are measures of variability in the expected cash flows of a VIE. When we transfer financial assets in a securitization to a VIE, the VIE must represent a
qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE) or we would continue to consolidate the transferred financial assets. QSPE status is achieved when all conditions specified in SFAS No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,  are met. Those conditions focus on whether the entity is demonstrably distinct from BNY Mellon, limited to only permitted activities, limited on what assets the QSPE may hold, and limited on sales or
other dispositions of assets. We also obtain the required true-sale opinions from outside counsel on all securitizations. We have determined that all of our securitization trusts are QSPEs.       Nature of operations       BNY Mellon is a global financial services
company providing a broad range of financial products and services in domestic and international markets. Through our seven business segments (Asset Management, Wealth Management, Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Clearing and Execution Services,
Treasury Services and Other), we serve the following major classes of customers institutions, corporations, and high net worth individuals. For  

84     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 institutions and corporations we provide the following services:       

investment management;          

trust and custody;          

foreign exchange;          

securities lending;          

depositary receipts;          

corporate trust;          

shareowner services, and          

banking services.         For individuals, we provide
mutual funds, separate accounts, wealth management and private banking services. BNY Mellon s asset management businesses provide investment products in many asset classes and investment styles on a global basis.       Trading account securities, available-for-sale securities, and held-to-maturity securities       Securities are classified in the trading account securities portfolio, the available-for-sale securities portfolio or the held-to-maturity securities portfolio when they are purchased. Securities are classified as
trading account securities when the intent is profit maximization through market appreciation and resale. Securities are classified as available-for-sale securities when we intend to hold the securities for an indefinite period of time or when the
securities may be used for tactical asset/liability purposes and may be sold from time to time to effectively manage interest rate exposure, prepayment risk and liquidity needs. Securities are classified as held-to-maturity securities when we intend
to hold them until maturity. Seed capital investments are classified as other assets, trading account securities or available-for-sale securities, depending on the nature of the investment and management s intent.      Trading account securities are stated at fair value. Trading revenue includes both realized and unrealized gains and losses. The liability incurred on short-sale
transactions, representing the obligation to deliver securities, is included in trading account liabilities at fair value.      Available-for-sale securities
are stated at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on assets classified as   
   
 available for sale, net of tax, are recorded as an addition to or deduction from other comprehensive results. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at cost,
adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount on a level yield basis. Gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are reported in the income statement. The cost of debt and equity securities sold is determined on a
specific identification and average cost method, respectively. Unrealized gains and losses on seed capital investments classified as Other assets are recorded in investment income.      We conduct quarterly reviews to identify and evaluate investments that have indications of possible impairment. An investment in a debt or equity security is impaired if its fair value falls below its cost and the
decline is considered other-than-temporary. We examine various factors when determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary. Examples of factors that may indicate that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred include:       

Fair value is below cost;          

The decline in fair value has existed for an extended period of time;          

Management does not possess both the intent and the ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair
value;          

The decline in fair value is attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment;          

The decline in fair value is attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area; and          

A debt security has been downgraded by a rating agency.         Securities with an unrealized loss that is determined to be other-than-temporary are written down to fair value, with the write-down recorded as a realized loss in securities gains (losses).      The accounting policy for the determination of the value of a security when quoted prices are not available has been identified as a  critical accounting
estimate  as it requires us to make numerous assumptions based on available market data.       Loans and leases       Loans are reported net of any unearned discount. Loan origination and upfront commitment fees, as well as  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     85   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 certain direct loan origination and commitment costs, are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the lives of the related loans. Deferred fees and
costs are netted against outstanding loan balances. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value.      Unearned revenue on
direct financing leases is accreted over the lives of the leases in decreasing amounts to provide a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. Revenue on leveraged leases is recognized on a basis to achieve a constant yield on the
outstanding investment in the lease, net of the related deferred tax liability, in the years in which the net investment is positive. Gains and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are included in other income. Considering the nature
of these leases and the number of significant assumptions, there is risk associated with the income recognition on these leases should any of the assumptions change materially in future periods.       Nonperforming assets       Commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual
status when the fair value of collateral is less than the principal and principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, or when there is reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected. Residential mortgage loans are generally
placed on nonaccrual status when, in our judgment, collection is in doubt or the loans are 180 days or more delinquent, subject to an impairment test. Consumer loans are not classified as nonperforming assets, but are charged off and interest
accrued is suspended based upon an established delinquency schedule determined by product. Real estate acquired in satisfaction of loans is carried in other assets at the lower of the recorded investment in the property or fair value minus estimated
costs to sell.      When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against current period interest
revenue. Interest receipts on nonaccrual and impaired loans are recognized as interest revenue or are applied to principal when we believe the ultimate collectibility of principal is in doubt. Nonaccrual loans generally are restored to an accrual
basis when principal and interest payments become current or when the loan becomes well secured and is in the process of collection.      A loan is considered
to be impaired, as defined by SFAS No. 114,  Accounting by Creditors for   
   
 Impairment of a Loan,  when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all principal and interest amounts due according to the contractual terms
of the loan agreement. An impairment reserve is measured on the commercial loans of $1 million or greater and which meet the definition of an impaired loan per SFAS No. 114. Personal nonaccrual loans are not tested for impairment because they
are included in large groups of smaller-balance homogeneous loans that, by definition along with leases, are excluded from the scope of SFAS No. 114.      Impaired loans are required to be measured based upon the loan s market price, the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s initial effective interest rate, or at fair value of the collateral if the
loan is collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded value of the loan, an impairment reserve is established by either an allocation of the reserve for credit losses or by a provision for credit losses. Impairment reserves
are not needed when the recorded investment in an impaired loan is less than the loan valuation.       Reserve for loans losses and reserve for unfunded
commitments       The reserve for loans losses, shown as a valuation allowance to loans, and the allowance for lending related commitments are referred to
as BNY Mellon s reserve for credit exposure. The accounting policy for the determination of the adequacy of the reserves has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective
estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.      The reserve for loans losses is maintained to absorb losses inherent in the
loans portfolio as of the balance sheet date based on our judgment. The reserve determination methodology is designed to provide procedural discipline in assessing the appropriateness of the reserve. Credit losses are charged against the reserve.
Recoveries are added to the reserve.      The methodology for determining the allowance for lending related commitments considers the same factors as the
reserve for loan losses, as well as an estimate of the probability of drawdown.       Premises and equipment       Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the  

86     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased
facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement. For owned and capitalized assets, estimated useful lives range from 2 to 40 years. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and
amortized to operating expense over their identified useful lives.       Software       BNY Mellon capitalizes costs relating to acquired software and internal-use software development projects that provide new or significantly improved functionality. We capitalize projects that are expected to result in
longer term operational benefits, such as replacement systems or new applications that result in significantly increased operational efficiencies or functionality. All other costs incurred in connection with an internal-use software project are
expensed as incurred. Capitalized software is recorded in other assets.       Identified intangible assets and goodwill       Identified intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized in a pattern consistent with the assets  identifiable cash flows or using a straight-line method
over their remaining estimated benefit periods if the pattern of cash flows is not estimable. Intangible assets with estimable lives are reviewed for possible impairment when events or changed circumstances may affect the underlying basis of the
asset. Goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are assessed at least annually for impairment. The accounting policy for valuing and impairment testing of identified intangible assets and goodwill has been identified as
a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates.       Fee revenue       We record security servicing fees, asset and wealth management fees, foreign exchange and other trading activities, treasury services, financing-related fees,
distribution and servicing, and other revenue when the services are provided and earned based on contractual terms, when amounts are determined and collectibility is reasonably assured.      Additionally, we recognize revenue from non-refundable, up-front implementation fees under   

outsourcing contracts using a straight-line method, commencing in the period the ongoing services are performed through the expected term of the contractual
relationship. Incremental direct set-up costs of implementation, up to the related implementation fee or minimum fee revenue amount, are deferred and amortized over the same period that the related implementation fees are recognized. If a client
terminates an outsourcing contract prematurely, the unamortized deferred incremental direct set-up costs and the unamortized deferred up-front implementation fees related to that contract are recognized in the period the contract is terminated.
     Performance fees are recognized in the period in which the performance fees are earned and become determinable. Performance fees are generally calculated
as a percentage of the applicable portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance. For hedge fund investments, an investment management performance fee is calculated as a percentage of the applicable
portfolio s positive returns. When a portfolio underperforms its benchmark or fails to generate positive performance in the instance of a hedge fund investment, subsequent years  performance must generally exceed this shortfall prior to
fees being earned. Amounts billable in subsequent years and which are subject to a clawback if performance thresholds in those years are not met are not recognized since the fees are potentially uncollectible. These fees are recognized when it is
determined that they will be collected. When a multiyear performance contract provides that fees earned are billed ratably over the performance period, only the portion of the fees earned that is non-refundable is recognized.       Net interest revenue       Revenue on interest-earning assets and expense
on interest-bearing liabilities is recognized based on the effective yield of the related financial instrument.       Foreign currency translation
      Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Revenue and
expense accounts are translated monthly at an average monthly exchange rate. Transaction gains and losses are included in the income statement. Translation gains and losses on investments in foreign entities with functional currencies that are not
the U.S. dollar are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive income.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     87   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  Pension       The measurement date for BNY Mellon s
pension plans was changed from Sept. 30 to Dec. 31. Plan assets are determined based on fair value generally representing observable market prices. The projected benefit obligation is determined based on the present value of projected benefit
distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on the yield of high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace. Periodic pension expense includes service costs, interest costs based on an assumed discount
rate, an expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of actuarial gains and losses.      Actuarial
gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments and various gains and losses which are deferred and amortized over the future service periods of active employees. The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan
assets is based on fair value adjusted for the difference between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The unrealized difference between actual experience and expected returns is included in the market-related value over a
five-year period.      Any gains or losses related to changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience
different from the assumed discount rate or expected returns and from changes in assumptions are deferred. To the extent a gain or loss, excluding the asset gain or loss, exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or
the market-related value of plan assets, the excess is recognized over the future service periods of active employees.      BNY Mellon s accounting policy
regarding pensions has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it is regarded to be critical to the presentation of our financial statements since it requires management to make numerous complex and subjective assumptions
relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.       Severance       BNY Mellon provides separation benefits through the BNY Mellon Separation Plan, the Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan or the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program to eligible employees separated or displaced from
their jobs for business reasons not related to individual performance. Basic separation benefits are based on the employee s years of continuous benefited service.   
   
 Separation expense is recorded when management commits to an action that will result in separation and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
estimated.       Income Taxes       We record current tax
liabilities or assets through charges or credits to the current tax provision for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. A tax position that fails to
meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will result in either a reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as income tax
expense.       Derivative financial instruments       Derivative
contracts, such as futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading activities are recorded at fair value. We do not recognize gains or losses at the inception of derivative
transactions if the fair value is not determined based upon observable market transactions and market data. Gains and losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities in fee and other revenue. Unrealized gains and losses are
reported on a gross basis in trading account assets and trading liabilities, after taking into consideration master netting agreements.      We enter into
various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes primarily as part of our asset/liability management ( ALM ) process. These derivatives are designated as fair value and cash flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities
when we enter into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses associated with fair value hedges are recorded in income as well as any change in the value of the related hedged item. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other
comprehensive income.      We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our  

88     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives that are designated as fair
value or cash flow hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the balance sheet.      We formally assess, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing
basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective and whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. We evaluate ineffectiveness in terms of amounts that could impact a
hedge s ability to qualify for hedge accounting and the risk that the hedge could result in more than a de minimus amount of ineffectiveness. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of our hedges is assessed to
determine if we can expect the hedge to be highly effective over the life of the transaction and to determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis. Recognizing that changes in the value of derivatives used for hedging or the
value of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, we have processes in place that are designed to identify and evaluate such changes when they occur. Quarterly, we perform a quantitative effectiveness assessment and record any
ineffectiveness.      We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when we determine that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative
expires, is sold, or management discontinues the derivative s hedge designation. Subsequent gains and losses on these derivatives are included in foreign exchange and other trading activities.      The accounting policy for the determination of the value of derivative when quoted prices are not available has been identified as a  critical accounting
estimate  as it requires us to make numerous assumptions based on the available market data.       Statement of cash flows       We have defined cash and cash equivalents as cash and due from banks. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in the same category as the items hedged.
      Stock options       We adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised
2004) ( SFAS 123(R) ),  Share-Based Payment , which is a revision of SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  on Jan. 1, 2006, using the  modified prospective  method. Under this
method,   
   
 compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date: (a) based on the requirements of SFAS 123(R) for all share-based payments granted
after the effective date; and (b) based on the requirements of SFAS 123 for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS 123(R) that remain unvested on the effective date.      The modified retroactive restatement method requires that our financial statements be restated as if fair value accounting had been adopted in 1995. For 2007 and 2006,
there is no difference between the prospective method and the retroactive restatement method. The following table discloses the pro forma effects on net income and earnings per share for 2005 as if the retroactive restatement method had been
adopted.       

Pro forma income and EPS   

(in millions except per share amounts)   
      
  2005  

Reported net income   
      
  $  
  1,571  

Stock-based employee compensation costs using prospective method, net of tax   

29  

Stock-based employee compensation costs using retroactive restatement, net of tax   

(37  
  )   
 
    Pro forma net income   
      
  $  
  1,563  

Reported diluted earnings per share   
      
  $  
  2.16  

Impact on diluted earnings per share   

(.01  
  )   
 
    Pro forma diluted earnings per share   
      
  $  
  2.15  
      
    Certain of our stock compensation grants vest when the employee retires. SFAS 123(R) requires the completion of
expensing of new grants with this feature by the first date the employee is eligible to retire. For grants prior to Jan. 1, 2006, we will continue to expense them over their stated vesting period. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) increased pre-tax
expense by $17 million in 2007 and $12 million in 2006, respectively.       2. Revision of prior period financial statements       Our fourth quarter 2006 acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and sale of our Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase included a  Like Kind Exchange 
(the  LKE ) of finite lived intangible assets, principally core deposit intangibles, under Internal Revenue Code section ( Section ) 1031. The      LKE deferred taxes of $164 million were treated as a liability acquired in the business combination with an offsetting increase to goodwill.      We
reviewed the transaction and determined that $164 million of deferred tax expense should have been recognized on the gain related to the Retail      Business intangibles included in the LKE with  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     89   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 JPMorgan Chase. Accordingly, we have corrected the fourth quarter 2006 financial statements with a non-cash charge to discontinued operations income
taxes and a reduction in goodwill of $164 million. This revision does not impact income from continuing operations or our tangible common equity. We revised our prior period s financial statements and notes to reflect these taxes in
discontinued operations.         
    The table below presents the effect of the correction on our previously reported consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2006 and for
the three-month period ended Dec. 31, 2006, the consolidated statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, 2006 and the consolidated balance sheet for the period ended Dec. 31, 2006.   

(a)   
   Per common share data is presented in post-merger share count terms.      

(b)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.              The effect of the correction on the Dec. 31,
2006 consolidated balance sheet is as follows:       
       
    The effect of the correction on the year-ended 2006 consolidated statement of cash flows is as follows:       
     3. Accounting changes and new accounting pronouncements        SFAS No. 155 Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments       In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155 ( SFAS 155 ),  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments , an amendment of SFAS 140 and SFAS 133. SFAS 155 permits us to elect to

90     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 measure any hybrid financial instrument at fair value if the hybrid instrument contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation and
be accounted for separately under SFAS 133. SFAS 155 clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133 and that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination
are not embedded derivatives. SFAS 155 is effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued, or subject to a re-measurement event after Dec. 31, 2006. On Jan. 17, 2007, the FASB issued Derivative Implementation Groups
( DIG ) Issue B40 which impacts how SFAS 155 is applied. The adoption of SFAS 155 and DIG Issue B40 did not have a significant impact on our investment activities.       FSP FAS 13-2 Leases       In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) FAS 13-2,
 Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leverage Lease Transaction,  revising the accounting guidance under SFAS No. 13 ( SFAS 13 ),
 Accounting for Leases,  for leveraged leases. This FSP modifies existing interpretations of SFAS 13 and associated industry practice. As a result in 2007, we recognized a one-time after-tax charge to equity of $389 million
related to a change in the timing of our lease cash flows due to the LILO settlement, further described in Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. However, an amount approximating this one-time charge will be taken into income over
the remaining term of the affected leases. Since we have not yet reached a settlement with the IRS related to LILOs originated in 1998, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we changed our estimate assuming a September 2008 settlement date. This resulted
in an after-tax charge to earnings in 2007 of $5 million. As with our other LILOs, the portion of the one-time charge related to 1998 leases will be taken into income between the settlement date and the end of the lease term.       FIN No. 48 Taxes       In 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation
No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  ( FIN 48 ). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertain tax positions in accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  FIN 48 requires
that a tax position meet a  more-likely-than-not threshold  for the benefit of the uncertain tax position to be recognized in the financial statements. A tax position that fails to meet a more-likely-than-not recognition

threshold will result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. The impact of adoption
in 2007 was a charge to equity of $27 million. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to FIN 48.       SFAS No. 158 Pensions       In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)  ( SFAS 158 ). SFAS 158 requires the Company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s overfunded
status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status, (b) measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the fiscal year, (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined
postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income) and (d) provide additional disclosure. The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements are effective as of
the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer s fiscal year-end statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending
after December 15, 2008. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. The effect of adopting SFAS 158 on the Company s consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2006 has been included in the
accompanying financial statements. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a charge to equity of $264 million.       4. Acquisitions and dispositions        Acquisitions in 2007        Merger with Mellon Financial Corporation
      On July 1, 2007, we completed our merger with Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon ), headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Both
companies merged into a new holding company named The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon ) upon completion of the transaction. In the transaction, each share of Mellon $.50 par value  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     91   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 common stock was converted into one share of BNY Mellon $.01 par value common stock and each share of The Bank of New York $7.50 par value common stock was
converted into .9434 shares of BNY Mellon $.01 par value common stock. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon for accounting and financial reporting purposes. As a result, the historical financial statements of the combined company
presented in this Annual Report are the historical financial statements of The Bank of New York. Mellon s results of operations were included with The Bank of New York s results beginning July 1, 2007.      At June 30, 2007, Mellon had total assets of $43 billion, total common shares outstanding of 418,330,448 and had 17,400 employees. Mellon s total revenue and
net income from continuing operations for the first six months of 2007 were $2,902 million and $524 million, respectively.      The merger with Mellon added
approximately $33 billion of interest-earning assets, including $18 billion of securities, $7 billion of loans and $6 billion of other money market investments. The merger also provided the following funding sources: $21 billion of interest-bearing
deposits, $8 billion of noninterest-bearing deposits, $4 billion of long term debt and $1 billion of federal funds purchased. Goodwill and intangibles related to the merger with Mellon were approximately $16 billion.       Purchase price and goodwill Mellon       The purchase price has been
allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed using their fair values at the merger date. The computation of the purchase price and the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Mellon, based on their respective fair values at
July 1, 2007, and the resulting amount of goodwill are presented in the following table. Changes to the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets, since the merger date, reflect additional information obtained about the fair value of
the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.         

(dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts)  (a)    
     
  July 1, 2007  

Purchase price of Mellon Financial:   

Mellon Financial net common shares outstanding   

418,330,448  

Exchange ratio   

1.00  

The Bank of New York Mellon shares   

418,330,448  

Average price per share   
     
  $  
  39.86  

Purchase price of Mellon Financial shares   

$  
  16,675  

Estimated fair value of outstanding Mellon Financial stock options   

302  

Total purchase price   

$  
  16,977  

Net Mellon Financial assets acquired:   

Mellon Financial shareholders  equity   

$  
  5,194  

Mellon Financial goodwill and intangibles   

(2,925  
  )   
 
    Unrecognized compensation on unvested stock options and restricted stock   

126  

Estimated adjustments to reflect assets at fair value:   

Loans and leases, net   

(199  
  )   
 
    Premises and equipment   

15  

Identified intangibles   

5,010  

Other assets   

532  

Estimated adjustments to reflect liabilities at fair value:   

Deposits   

(4  
  )   
 
    Long-term debt   

(18  
  )   
 
    Other liabilities   

(95  
  )   
 
    Deferred taxes   

Related to new intangibles carrying value   

(1,728  
  )  

Related to stock options   

(40  
  )  

Related to all other adjustments   

214  

Total deferred tax adjustments   

(1,554  
  )   
 
    Estimated exit and transactions costs   

(169  
  )   

Total net assets acquired and adjustment to fair value   

5,913  

Goodwill   

$  
  11,064  

(a)   
   Certain amounts have been revised subsequent to July 1, 2007.      
       
   92     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 Components of the fair value of acquired, identifiable intangible assets related to the acquisition of Mellon as of July 1, 2007 are as follows:

(in millions)   
      
   Fair value      (a)        
      
   Estimated lives or contract terms    
 
    Amortizing intangibles:   

Asset and Wealth Management customer relationships   
      
  $  
  1,815  
      
  14 years   
 
    Customer contracts in Institutional services   

711  
      
  24 years   
 
    Core deposits   

106  
      
  5 years   
 
    Non-compete agreements   

21  
      
  6 years   
 
    Indefinite-lived intangibles:   

Mutual funds advisory contracts   

1,357  
      
  N/A   
 
    Trade names   

1,000  
      
  N/A   

Total   
      
  $  
  5,010  

(a)   
   Certain amounts have been revised subsequent to July 1, 2007.         The following condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects the fair value of Mellon s net assets as of July 1, 2007.       
     Other 2007 acquisitions       In addition to the previously discussed merger with Mellon, we acquired three businesses for a total cost of $635 million.      Goodwill and the tax-deductible portion of goodwill related to other 2007 acquisitions was $418 million and $7 million, respectively. We frequently structure our acquisitions with both an initial payment and a later contingent payment tied
to post-closing revenue or income growth, and we record the fair value of   
   
 contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable.      At Dec. 31, 2007, we are potentially obligated to pay additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and
joint ventures, could range from approximately $343 million to $483 million over the next four years. None of the potential contingent additional consideration was recorded as goodwill at Dec. 31, 2007. Cash paid or accrued for contingent payments
was $56 million in 2007.      In December 2007, we completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Mellon Global Securities Services B.V. (ABN AMRO Mellon). ABN AMRO
Mellon, the 50-50 joint venture company, established by Mellon Bank N.A. and ABN AMRO in 2003 to provide global custody and related services to institutions outside North America, will now be known as BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. and become a
part of the asset servicing segment. The acquisition of BNY Mellon Asset Servicing B.V. added $1.0 billion of loans, $3.5 billion of money market assets and $4.5 billion of deposits. The impact of the acquisition on earnings per share is not
expected to be material.      In January 2007, certain clearing and custody relationships rights were acquired by our Pershing subsidiary. The transaction
involved 46 organizations, comprised of 30 registered investment advisor firms and 16 introducing broker-dealer firms.      In March 2007, we sold our 49%
stake in joint venture BNY Mortgage Co. to EverBank Financial Corp. The transaction is consistent with our strategic moves to focus on asset management and securities servicing.      In June 2007, we sold our 30% equity investment in RBS International Securities Services (Holdings) Limited to BNP Paribas Securities Services.      In December 2007, we acquired the remaining 50% joint venture interest in PI Asset Management, an asset management firm that manages funds of hedge funds aimed at Japanese institutional investors.      In November 2007, we agreed to acquire ARX Capital Management, a leading independent asset management business headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. ARX Capital
Management specializes in Brazilian multi-strategy, long/short and long only investment strategies and has more than $2.8 billion in assets under management. In January 2008, we  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     93   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 completed the acquisition of ARX Capital Management. The transaction is a key development in our global growth and will enable us to offer clients access to
expanding investment opportunities and expertise in the Brazilian marketplace.       2006 Acquisitions       During 2006, five businesses were acquired for a total cost of $2.557 billion. Goodwill and the tax-deductible portion of goodwill related to 2006 acquisitions was
$1.782 billion and $1.641 billion, respectively. See below for a discussion of the business acquired in 2006.       Purchase of Acquired Corporate Trust
Business and sale of Retail Business       On October 1, 2006, we sold our Retail Business to JPMorgan Chase for the net asset value plus a premium of
$2.3 billion. JPMorgan Chase sold its corporate trust business to us for the net asset value plus a premium of $2.15 billion. The difference between premiums resulted in us receiving a net cash payment of $150 million. We may also receive a
contingent payment of up to $50 million, tied to customer retention. We recorded an after-tax gain of $1.217 billion, revised (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) on the sale of the Retail Business. For further details, see
Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      On October 2, 2006, we completed the transaction resulting in the formation of BNY ConvergEx
Group. BNY ConvergEx Group brought together BNY Securities Group s trade execution, commission management, independent research and transition management business with Eze Castle Software, a leading provider of trade order management and
related investment technologies.      BNY Mellon, as successor to The Bank of New York, and GTCR Golder Rauner, LLC each hold a 35.4% stake in BNY ConvergEx
Group, with the balance held by Eze Castle Software s investors and BNY ConvergEx Group s management team.      In addition, our B-Trade and G-Trade
businesses became part of the BNY ConvergEx Group on Feb. 1, 2008.       Other 2006 acquisitions/divestures        

In Jan. 2006, we acquired Alcentra Group Limited, an international asset management group.            

In March 2006, we acquired Urdang Capital Management, Inc., a real estate investment firm.          

In June 2006, we acquired the bond administration business of TD Banknorth, N.A.          

In December 2006, we sold our transfer agency software business, Rufus, to Bravura Solutions Limited.          

In December 2006, we acquired the remaining 50% stake in AIB/BNY Securities Services (Ireland) Ltd.          Pro forma condensed combined financial information       On a pro forma
basis, if the merger with Mellon and the acquisition of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business had occurred on Jan. 1, 2006, the transactions would have had the following impact:       
    The pro forma results are based on adding the pre-tax historical results of Mellon and the Acquired Corporate
Trust Business to our results and primarily adjusting for amortization of intangibles created in the transaction and taxes. The pro forma data does not include adjustments to reflect our operating costs or expected differences in the way funds
generated by the Acquired Corporate Trust Business are invested. The pro forma data is intended for informational purposes and is not indicative of the future results of operations.       5. Discontinued operations       On Oct. 1, 2006, we acquired JPMorgan Chase s corporate trust business and JPMorgan Chase
acquired our Retail Business. We adopted discontinued operations accounting for our Retail Business. The results from continuing operations exclude the results of our Retail Business and include the operations of the Acquired Corporate Trust
Business only after Oct. 1, 2006.   
       
   94     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     In accordance with the generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), results for all the Retail Business are reported separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of the businesses sold are included in assets of discontinued operations and
liabilities of discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet. Net interest revenue has been computed by allocating investment securities and federal funds sold and related interest income to discontinued operations to match the amount
and duration of the assets sold with the amount and duration of the liabilities sold. In addition, certain residual activity from businesses that Mellon had reported as discontinued operations prior to the merger are also included as discontinued
operations after July 2007.      Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations as of Dec. 31, 2007 and Dec. 31, 2006 were not significant.      Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is as follows:       

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only. All other periods reflect legacy The Bank of New
York only.      

(b)   
   Including the $2.159 billion pre-tax gain on the sale of the Retail Business.      

(c)   
   Revised, See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.            
     6. Goodwill and Intangibles  
      Goodwill       The level of goodwill increased in 2007 due
to the merger with Mellon, the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in ABN AMRO Mellon, other smaller acquisitions as well as additional consideration paid for prior acquisitions, and the effect of foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. dollar
denominated goodwill. The following table shows the changes to goodwill, by business sector for 2007:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only. Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(b)   
   Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     95   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                   
 The table below provides a further breakdown of goodwill by business segment. Goodwill impairment testing is performed annually at the business segment
level. No impairment losses were recorded in 2007 and 2006.       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only. Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(b)   
   Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.          Intangible assets            Intangible assets not subject to amortization
are tested annually for impairment or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired. The increase in intangible assets in 2007 compared with   
   
 2006 resulted from the merger with Mellon. No impairment losses were recorded on intangible assets in 2007 or 2006.   

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for the impact of the Mellon merger.      

(c)   
   Intangible assets not subject to amortization have an indefinite life.          
       
   96     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 Intangible amortization expense was $319 million, $76 million and $40 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005. The increase compared with both prior
periods resulted from the merger with Mellon. The impact of intangible amortization expense and purchase accounting adjustments, in 2007, related to the merger with Mellon was $123 million pre-tax or $81 million after-tax.         
   
 Estimated annual amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:       
 
         7. Securities    
  The following table sets forth the amortized cost and the fair values of securities at the end of the last two years. At Dec. 31, 2007, securities issued by U.S.
Government sponsored enterprises exceed 10% of shareholders  equity. At Dec. 31, 2007, there were no other issuers that exceeded 10% of shareholders  equity.       

         At Dec. 31, 2007, the majority of unrealized losses are attributable to changes in interest rates on investment grade securities. The portion of unrealized losses that
are not attributable to interest rates are attributable to   
   
 prevailing market spreads and are expected to be recovered. We have the ability and intent to hold these securities until their value recovers. We believe
that all of our unrealized losses are temporary in nature.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     97   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  Temporarily impaired securities       The following tables
show the aggregate related fair value of investments with a continuous unrealized loss   
   
 position for less than 12 months and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months.   
     
    The amortized cost and fair values of securities at Dec. 31, 2007, by contractual maturity, are as follows:
      
         Realized gross gains on the sale of securities available-for-sale were $29 million in 2007 and $81 million in 2006. There were $230 million of realized gross losses in
2007 and $79 million of realized gross losses in 2006. In 2007, we recorded a $200 million (pre-tax) loss for other than temporary impairment, on $379 million of CDOs that contained subprime exposure.      At Dec. 31, 2007, assets amounting to $34.2 billion were pledged primarily for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The significant components of
pledged assets were as follows: $29.9 billion were securities and $4.3 billion were loans. Included in these pledged assets was securities available-for-sale of $750 million which were pledged as collateral for actual borrowings. The lenders in
these borrowings have the right to repledge or sell these securities. We obtain securities under resale, securities borrowed and custody agreements on terms which permit us to repledge or resell the securities to others. As of Dec. 31, 2007, the
market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was   
   
 $29.5 billion. We routinely repledge or lend these securities to third parties. As of Dec. 31, 2007, the market value of collateral repledged and sold was
$311 million.       8. Loans       For details of our loan distribution
and industry concentrations of credit risk at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006, see the  Loans by product  table on page 42, which is incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      In the ordinary course of business, we and our banking subsidiaries have made loans at prevailing interest rates and terms to our directors and executive officers and to
entities in which certain of our directors have an ownership interest or direct or indirect subsidiaries of such entities. The aggregate amount of these loans was $35 million, $211 million, and $244 million at Dec. 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively. These loans are primarily extensions of credit under revolving lines of credit established for such entities.   
       
   98     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     The composition of our loan portfolio is shown
in the following table:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.         Transactions in the allowance
for credit losses are summarized as follows:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Includes six months of the combined Company s results and six months of legacy The Bank of New York only.            
    The table below sets forth information about our nonperforming assets and impaired loans.       

(a)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under the
accounting standard related to impaired loans.      

(b)   
   The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.          

Lost interest   

Legacy The Bank of New York only    
 
   (in millions)   
      
   2007   
      
  2006  
      
  2005   
 
    Amount by which interest income recognized on nonperforming loans exceeded reversals:   

Total   
      
   $   
   1   
      
  $  
  1  
      
  $  
  -   
 
    Foreign   

-   

-  

-   
 
    Amount by which interest income would have increased if nonperforming loans at year-end had been performing for the entire
year:   

Total   

6   

1  

1   
 
    Foreign   

2   

-  

-   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     99   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 At Dec. 31, 2007, commitments to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced rate were not material.      We use the discounted cash flow method as the primary method for valuing impaired loans.       9. Other assets        

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Includes Federal Reserve Bank stock of $366 million, at cost.          10.
Deposits       The aggregate amount of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or greater was approximately $43.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2007 and $31.8
billion at Dec. 31, 2006. At Dec. 31, 2007, the scheduled maturities of all time deposits for the years 2008 through 2012 and 2013 and thereafter are as follows: $41.944 billion; $828 million; $402 million; $15 million; $0.1 million; and $175
million, respectively.       11. Other fee and other revenue and noninterest expense       In 2007, other fee and other revenues included $58 million of expense reimbursement from joint ventures, $41 million of net economic value payments related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, and a $28 million
settlement received for early termination of a contract with a clearing business. In 2006, other fee and other revenue included a pre-tax gain of $35 million related to the conversion of our New York Stock Exchange seats into cash and shares of NYSE
Group, Inc. common stock, some of which were sold. In 2005, other fee and other revenue included a $17 million gain on the sale of our interest in Financial Models Companies, Inc. In 2007, other noninterest expense included personnel related,
postage, forms and supplies and joint venture pass-through expenses of $211 million, as well as a $32 million write-off of the remaining interest in a hedge fund manager and a $17 million loss related to SIV securities purchased

from a commingled NAV fund. The commingled NAV fund is managed to the specifications of a money market fund. In 2006, other noninterest expense included a
$22 million transition services expense related to the Acquired Corporate Trust Business.      Other fee and other revenue includes equity in earnings of
unconsolidated subsidiaries of $56 million, $47 million and $39 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005.       12. Net interest revenue        
     13. Income taxes        

100     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     The components of income before taxes are as
follows:       
    The components of our net deferred tax liability (included in accrued taxes and other expenses) at Dec. 31 are as
follows:       
    We recorded foreign tax credit carryovers of $346 million, a portion of which will begin to expire in 2012, and
general business credit carryovers of $58 million which begin to expire in 2023. We have federal net operating loss carryovers of $1.386 billion (for which we have recorded a $485 million tax benefit) related to a separate filing of a group of
certain leasing subsidiaries which begin to expire in 2023. We have not recorded a valuation allowance because we expect to realize our deferred tax assets including these carryovers.      As of Dec. 31, 2007, we had approximately $959 million of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have been permanently reinvested abroad and for which no provision has been recorded for income tax that
would occur if repatriated. It is not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.         
    The statutory federal
income tax rate is reconciled to our effective income tax rate below:       
     
    We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,  on Jan. 1, 2007. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, we recognized a $27 million increase in our liability for uncertain tax benefits ( Tax
Reserves ), which reduced the Jan. 1, 2007 retained earnings balance. We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to income taxes in income tax expense. Included in the statement of financial position as of Dec. 31, 2007
is accrued interest, where applicable, of $233 million. The additional tax expense related to interest for 2007 is $77 million.      BNY Mellon s federal
consolidated income tax returns are closed to examination through 1995. Although the IRS has completed its examination for 1996 and 1997, at this time, a formal revenue agent s report has not been received. We believe it is unlikely that there
will be any changes to those years that would affect the Tax Reserves. The IRS is currently examining our consolidated income tax returns for tax years 1998 through 2002. Our New York State and New York City  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     101   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 return examinations have been completed through 1993. New York State and New York City are currently examining our tax returns for the years 1994 through
1996. Our United Kingdom income tax returns are closed through 1998. Although the UK tax authorities have completed their examination for the period from 1999 through 2004, at this time, a formal report has not been received. We believe it is
unlikely that there will be any changes to those years that would materially affect the Tax Reserves.      We have Tax Reserves related to transactions
occurring in the years 1998 through 2002 that are currently under examination by the IRS. We believe that over the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits associated with the IRS examination of our LILO
transactions will be settled. (See discussion of FSP FAS 13-2 in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We do not expect that the resolution of this and other issues over the next 12 months will have a material impact on our
financial statements.         
     14. Extraordinary (loss)   Consolidation of Three Rivers Funding Corporation ( TRFC )       Mellon Bank, N.A. has a referral relationship with and provides administrative services to TRFC. On Dec. 31, 2007, we called the first loss notes of TRFC, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the
consolidation of TRFC. The consolidation resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary (loss) (non-cash accounting charge) of $180 million, net of a tax benefit of $122 million. The extraordinary (loss) represents the mark to market discount from
par at Dec. 31, 2007, associated with spread widening for the assets in TRFC. The diluted earnings per share impact of the extraordinary (loss) was $0.19 per share.      In addition to the extraordinary (loss), the size of the Dec. 31, 2007 balance sheet increased by the full amount of third party commercial paper funding previously issued by TRFC of approximately $4.0 billion. At
Dec. 31, 2007, we held $136 million of TRFC s commercial paper, which was eliminated upon consolidation.   
         15. Long-term debt        

(a)   
   Fixed rate.              The aggregate amounts of notes and debentures
that mature during the five years 2008 through 2012 for BNY Mellon are as follows: $3.300 billion, $1.225 billion, $950 million, $1.394 billion and $2.850 billion. At Dec. 31, 2007, subordinated debt aggregating $1.432 billion was redeemable at our
option as follows: $626 million in 2008; $237 million in 2009; and $569 million after 2009. We have $400 million of subordinated debt that is fixed at 3.40% until 2008 when it becomes variable. We intend to call this debt in the first quarter of
2008.       Junior subordinated debentures       Wholly owned
subsidiaries of BNY Mellon (the  Trusts ) have issued cumulative Company- Obligated Mandatory Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding Solely Junior   
   
 Subordinated Debentures ( Trust Preferred Securities ). The sole assets of each trust, with the exception of Mellon Capital IV, are our junior
subordinated deferrable interest debentures whose maturities and interest rates match the Trust Preferred Securities. The assets for Mellon Capital IV are currently (i) our remarketable 6.044% junior subordinated notes due 2043, and (ii) interests
in stock purchase contracts between Mellon Capital IV and us. On the  stock purchase date , as defined in the prospectus supplement for the Trust Preferred Securities of Mellon Capital IV, the sole assets of the trust will be shares of a
series of our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock.      Our obligations under the agreements that relate to the Trust Preferred Securities, the Trusts and
the notes   
       
   102     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 and debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by us of the Trusts  obligations under the Preferred Trust Securities.         
    The following table sets forth a summary of the Trust Preferred Securities issued by the Trusts as of Dec. 31, 2007:   

(a)   
   Junior subordinated debentures and interests in stock purchase contracts for Mellon Capital IV.      

(b)   
   Call price decreases ratably to par in the year 2016.      

(c)   
   The BNY Capital I Preferred and Common Trust Securities were redeemed on Feb. 1, 2008.      

(e)   
   Includes purchase accounting adjustments.              We have the option to shorten the maturity of
BNY Capital IV to 2013 or extend the maturity to 2047. The BNY Capital Preferred Trust Securities have been converted to floating rate via interest rate swaps.       16. Securitizations       We provide services to two QSPEs as of Dec. 31, 2007.       Money fund securitization       In 2000, we purchased BNY Hamilton Money Fund shares with a market value of $400 million.
We then sold the right to receive the principal value of the shares in 2021 in a securitization transaction and retained the rights to receive on-going dividends from the shares. We did not recognize a gain on the sale. The purpose of this
securitization is to achieve a favorable after-tax risk-adjusted investment return. We sponsor the BNY Hamilton Money Fund and receive an administrative fee for servicing the fund. We hedged a portion of the interest rate risk of the transaction by
entering into a $200 million interest rate swap with a third party. The retained interest is recorded in available-for-sale securities in the consolidated balance sheet.       Municipal bond securitizations       We sponsor approximately $170 million of municipal bond securitizations for which no
gain was recognized. These securitizations are comprised of $119 million which are Aaa insured, quarterly variable rate bonds with borrowers rated no lower than A3 on Moody s municipal bond scale and $51   
   
 million which are one year general obligation, unlimited tax notes issued by a borrower having a Moody s municipal bond rating of Baa2. All transactions
were done at par value. These transactions generate approximately $1 million of annual pre-tax equivalent revenue. The program s purpose is to achieve a favorable after-tax risk-adjusted investment return.       Asset-backed commercial paper conduit       Since 2000, we have sold and
distributed securities for Old Slip Funding, LLC ( OSF ), an asset-backed commercial paper securitization program. We service the program and receive a market-based fee of approximately five basis points that is adequate to compensate us
for our servicing responsibilities. As a result, there is no servicing asset or liability.      In 2007, we restructured the program with a third party holding
the first loss position, which is designed to absorb the majority of any expected losses. The first loss note holder commitment is $5 million. The Bank of New York provides additional liquidity and credit enhancement to OSF s commercial paper
securitization program through total rate of return swaps and a subordinated loan. The swaps are constructed to mature as the commercial paper matures. To the extent there is a liquidity issue impacting the paying ability of the underlying assets or
if the underlying assets undergo a credit default, the swaps are designed to ensure the timely payments to the beneficial interest holders. At Dec. 31, 2007, the authorized size of the program was $5 billion.      Effective Feb. 15, 2008, the authorized program size was lowered to $150 million. OSF is funded by   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     103   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 commercial paper (98%) and a subordinated funding loan (2%). Other than an increased cost of funding, OSF experienced no funding difficulties and did
not require liquidity support in 2007. There were no material writedowns of assets held by OSF in 2007. At Dec. 31, 2007, OSF held a $135 million book-value asset portfolio consisting of mortgage-backed securities, 93% of which were rated AAA
and 7% were rated A. At Dec. 31, 2007, a FIN 46R analysis was performed on OSF and it was not subject to consolidation by BNY Mellon. Consolidation of OSF would be immaterial to the assets of BNY Mellon.       Impact of programs       The impact of these securitizations on our fully
diluted earnings per share is less than 1 cent. Furthermore, if these transactions were consolidated on the balance sheet, there would have been virtually no impact on our liquidity, and the Tier I and Total Capital ratios at Dec. 31, 2007 would
have been four and five basis points lower, respectively.       17. Shareholders  equity       Effective July 1, 2007, BNY Mellon had 3.5 billion authorized shares of common stock with a par value of $.01 per share and 100 million authorized shares of preferred stock with a par value of $.01 per
share. At Dec. 31, 2007, there were 1,145,983,281 outstanding shares of common stock and no outstanding shares of preferred stock.      Prior to the merger
with Mellon, we had 5 million authorized shares of Class A convertible preferred stock having a par value of $2.00 per share. At Dec. 31, 2006, 3,000 shares were outstanding. On Jan. 22, 2007, we redeemed 300 shares of Class A
convertible preferred stock at a per share redemption price of $25 plus accrued dividends of $11.03. The remaining 2,700 shares were converted into The Bank of New York common stock with shareholders receiving 7.39644 shares (unadjusted) of The Bank
of New York common stock for each share of Class A convertible preferred stock.      In addition to the Class A preferred stock, we had
5 million authorized shares of preferred stock having no par value, with no shares outstanding at Dec. 31, 2006.      In October 2006, we repurchased
10 million shares of common stock at an initial price of $35.33 from a broker-dealer counterparty who borrowed the shares as part of an accelerated share repurchase program. The initial price was subject to a purchase price adjustment

based on the price the counterparty actually paid for the shares. The program matured in October 2007. In November 2007, we issued 818,164 shares of common
stock to settle the purchase price adjustment.      On Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million
shares of common stock. This authorization is in addition to the authority to repurchase up to 6.5 million shares previously approved by the Executive Committee of the Board, of which 5.1 million shares remain at Dec. 31, 2007. We
repurchased 1.5 million shares of our common stock in the second half of 2007 as part of a publicly announced plan. Total share repurchases in the second half of 2007 totaled 1.7 million shares.       18. Comprehensive results        

104     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                  

19. Stock based compensation
      Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs) and other stock-based awards
to employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries.      In connection with the merger with Mellon, all outstanding stock-based awards granted under Mellon s
equity compensation plans at the merger date were converted to BNY Mellon shares using a one-to-one ratio and are incorporated within this footnote. Upon approval of the merger with The Bank of New York by Mellon shareholders, change in control
provisions were triggered in stock option plans for Mellon s employees and directors, resulting in the immediate vesting of 7 million stock options under various option plans. These stock options are included as exercisable in the stock
option activity table on the following page.       Stock Option Plans       Our stock option plans ( the Option Plans ) provide for the issuance of stock options at fair market value at the date of grant to officers and employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. At Dec. 31, 2007,
under the Option Plans, we may issue 37,957,525 new options. In addition, we may reissue any options cancelled under our 1999 and 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plans. Generally, each option granted under the Option Plans is exercisable between one and
ten years from the date of grant.      The compensation cost that has been charged against income was $66 million, $42 million, and $48 million for 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $27 million, $19 million, and $20 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.      We used a lattice-based binomial method to calculate the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the weighted-average assumptions noted in the
following table:       

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     105   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     For 2007 and 2006, assumptions were determined
as follows:       

Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our stock, historical volatility of our stock, and other factors.

We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model.      

The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of grant.

The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to
be outstanding.      
        A summary of the status of
our Option Plans as of Dec. 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, and changes during the years ended on those dates, is presented below:       

(a)   
   Values for 2006 and 2005 represent legacy The Bank of New York only and have been restated in post merger share count terms.          

106     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     The total intrinsic value of options exercised
during the years ended Dec. 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $148 million, $100 million, and $31 million.      As of Dec. 31, 2007, there was $130 million of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested shares granted under the Option Plans. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years.      Cash received from options exercised under the option plans for the years ended Dec. 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, was $475 million, $217 million, and $61 million,
respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercised totaled $55 million, $37 million, and $11 million, respectively, for the years ended Dec. 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.       Restricted stock and RSUs       Restricted stock and RSUs are granted
under our Long-Term Incentive Plans at no cost to the recipient. These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period. The recipient of a share of restricted stock is
entitled to voting rights and dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse. The recipient is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends
paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding but does not receive voting rights.         
    The fair value of restricted stock and RSUs is equal to the fair
market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The expense is recognized over the vesting period of one to seven years. The total compensation expense recognized for restricted stock and RSUs was $101 million, $70 million and $55 million in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.      The following table summarizes our nonvested restricted stock activity for 2007.       
    As of Dec. 31, 2007, $167 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately two years.       20. Employee benefit plans       BNY Mellon has defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and eligible part-time employees and other post-retirement
plans providing healthcare benefits for certain retired employees.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     107   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
  Defined benefit plans       The following tables report the
combined data for our domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans. The measurement   
   
 date for plan assets and obligations was changed from Sept. 30 to Dec. 31, effective Dec. 31, 2007. The impact of acquisitions shown below reflects the
merger with the Mellon pension plans, effective July 1, 2007.   

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.            
   108     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Results prior to July 1, 2007 represent legacy The Bank of New York only.      

(b)   
   Assumptions in effect as of July 1, 2007 for legacy Mellon plans include discount rate of 6.25% for domestic plans and discount rate of 5.75% for foreign plans, expected
rate of return on plan assets of 8.25% and rate of compensation increase of 3.25%.      

Changes in other comprehensive (income)/loss in 2007   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)     
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

Net loss/(gain) arising during period   
      
  $  
  (108  
  )  
     
  $  
  28  

$  
  7  

$  
  (2  
  )   
 
    Recognition of prior years  net (loss)   

(29  
  )  

(4  
  )  

(7  
  )  

-  

Prior service cost/(credit) arising during period   

-  

-  

-  

-  

Recognition of prior years  prior service credit   

10  

-  

-  

-  

Recognition of prior years  net initial (obligation)   

-  

-  

(4  
  )  

-  

Adjustment due to change in measurement date   

(4  
  )  

(1  
  )  

(1  
  )  

-  

Foreign exchange adjustment   

-  

15  

-  

-  

Total recognized in other comprehensive (income)/loss (before tax effects)   
      
  $  
  (131  
  )  
     
  $  
  38  

$  
  (5  
  )  
     
  $  
  (2  
  )   

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost/(income) in 2008 (before tax effects)   
      
  Pension Benefits  
      
  Healthcare Benefits   
 
     (in millions)     
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  
      
  Domestic  
      
  Foreign   
 
    (Gain)/loss recognition   
      
  $  
  9  

$  
  1  
      
  $  
  6  
      
  $  
  -   
 
    Prior service cost recognition   

(10  
  )  

-  

-  

-   
 
    Net initial obligation (asset) recognition   

-  

-  

4  

-   

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.            
    The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans
was $2.612 billion at Dec. 31, 2007 and $1.048 billion at Sept. 30, 2006.       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     109   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the target
allocation for each asset class and are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global
economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      For additional information on pension assumptions see  Critical Accounting
Estimates  on pages 34 and 35.       Assumed healthcare cost trend Domestic healthcare benefits       The assumed health care cost trend rate used in determining benefit expense for 2007 is 8.9% decreasing to 5.0% in 2013. This projection is based on various economic
models that forecast a decreasing growth rate of health care expenses over time. The underlying assumption is that health care expense growth cannot outpace gross national product ( GNP ) growth indefinitely, and over time a lower
equilibrium growth rate will be achieved. Further, the growth rate assumed in 2013 bears a reasonable relationship to the discount rate.      An increase in
the health care cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the postretirement benefit obligation by $19.8 million, or 7.9% and the sum of the service and interest costs by $1.4 million, or 6.9%. Conversely, a decrease in
this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $17.2 million, or 6.9%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $1.2 million, or 5.9%.       Assumed healthcare cost trend Foreign healthcare benefits       An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one
percentage point for each year would increase the post-retirement benefit obligation by $1.7 million, or 23%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.2 million, or 33%. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each
year would decrease the benefit obligation by $1.2 million, or 16%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.1 million, or 17%.       Investment
strategy and asset allocation       Our investment objective for U.S. and foreign plans is to maximize total return while maintaining a broadly

diversified portfolio for the primary purpose of satisfying obligations for future benefit payments.      Equities are the main holding including our common stock as well as private equities. Alternative investments and fixed income securities provide diversification and
lower the volatility of returns. In general, equity securities within any plan s portfolio are maintained in the range of 45% to 75% of total plan assets, fixed-income securities range from 20% to 50% of plan assets and other assets (including
cash equivalents) are held in amounts ranging from 0% to 10% of plan assets. Asset allocation within the approved ranges varies from time to time based on economic conditions (both current and forecast) and the advice of professional investment
advisors.      Our pension assets were invested as follows at Dec. 31, 2007 and Sept. 30, 2006:       

(a)   
   Asset allocations prior to July 1, 2007 are for legacy The Bank of New York only.         Included in the domestic plan assets above were 2 million and 4.2 million shares of our common stock with a fair value of $98 million and $150 million at Dec. 31, 2007 and Sept. 30, 2006, respectively,
representing 3% of 2007 plan assets and 11% of 2006 plan assets. The BNY Mellon retirement plans received approximately $2 million and $3 million of dividends from BNY Mellon common stock in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Assets of the U.S. post
retirement healthcare plan are invested in an insurance contract.      BNY Mellon expects to make cash contributions to fund its defined benefit pension plans
in 2008 of $20 million for the domestic plans and $46 million for the foreign plans.   
       
   110     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     The following benefit payments for BNY
Mellon s pension and healthcare plans, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:       
     Defined contribution plans       We have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) covering certain domestic full-time employees with more than one year of service. The ESOP works in conjunction with our defined benefit pension plan.
Employees are entitled to the higher of their benefit under the ESOP or the defined benefit pension plan at retirement. If the benefit under the pension plan is higher, the employee s share of the ESOP is contributed to the pension plan.
     Contributions are made equal to required principal and interest payments on borrowings by the ESOP. At Dec. 31, 2007 and Sept. 30, 2006, the ESOP owned
9.0 million and 10.5 million shares of our stock, respectively. The fair value of total ESOP assets were $443 million and $375 million at Dec. 31, 2007 and Sept. 30, 2006. Contributions were approximately $3.6 million in 2007, $3.3 million
in 2006 and $2.1 million in 2005. ESOP related expense was $3 million, $3 million and $2 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005.      We have defined contribution
plans, excluding the ESOP, for which we recognized a cost of $86 million in 2007, $62 million in 2006, and $58 million in 2005. The increase in defined contribution costs in 2007 reflects the domestic and foreign plans assumed in the merger with
Mellon.         
     21. Company financial information       Our bank subsidiaries are subject to
dividend limitations under the Federal Reserve Act, as well as national and state banking laws. Under these statutes, prior regulatory approval is required for dividends in any year that would exceed the Bank s net profits for such year
combined with retained net profits for the prior two years. Our national bank subsidiaries may not declare dividends in excess of net profits on hand, as defined, after deducting the amount by which the principal amount of all loans, on which
interest is past due for a period of six months or more, exceeds the reserve for credit losses. The Bank of New York is also prohibited from paying dividends in excess of undivided profits.      Under the first and more significant of these limitations, our bank subsidiaries could declare dividends of approximately $1.635 billion in 2008 plus net profits earned
in the remainder of 2008.      In accordance with GAAP, on July 1, 2007, the retained earnings of the bank subsidiaries acquired in the merger with Mellon
were transferred to capital surplus. As a result, the dividend limitation for these banks is limited to the amount of earnings retained in the third and fourth quarters of 2007. Capital can be distributed by these banking subsidiaries via a
regulatory waiver.      The payment of dividends also is limited by minimum capital requirements imposed on banks. As of Dec. 31, 2007, BNY
Mellon s bank subsidiaries exceeded these minimum requirements.      The bank subsidiaries declared dividends of $611 million in 2007, $2.125 billion in
2006, and $911 million in 2005. The Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) have issued additional guidelines that require bank holding companies and national banks to continually evaluate the level
of cash dividends in relation to their respective operating income, capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.      The Federal Reserve
Board can also prohibit a dividend if payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. The Federal Reserve Board generally considers that a bank s dividends should not exceed earnings from continuing operations.

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     111   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     Our capital ratios and discussion of related
regulatory requirements are presented in the  Capital Capital adequacy  section on page 54 and through the risk-based and leverage capital ratios at year-end table on page 55 and are incorporated by reference into these Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      The Federal Reserve Act limits and requires collateral for extensions of credit by our insured subsidiary banks to BNY
Mellon and certain of its non-bank affiliates. Also, there are restrictions on the amounts of investments by such banks in stock and other securities of BNY Mellon and such affiliates, and restrictions on the acceptance of their securities as
collateral for loans by such banks. Extensions of credit by the banks to each of our affiliates are limited to 10% of such bank s regulatory capital, and in the aggregate for BNY Mellon and all such affiliates to 20%, and collateral must be
between 100% and 130% of the amount of the credit, depending on the type of collateral.      Our insured subsidiary banks are required to maintain reserve
balances with Federal Reserve Banks under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. Required balances averaged $403 million and $112 million for the years 2007 and 2006.      In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank s
shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.         
    The Parent company s condensed financial statements are as follows:       Condensed Income Statement The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation )      (a)              

(a)   
   Includes results of discontinued operations and the extraordinary (loss).      

(b)   
   Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      
       
   112     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      Condensed Balance Sheet The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)        

(a)   
   Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(b)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.            
     Condensed Statement of Cash Flows The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation (Parent Corporation)        

(a)   
   Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     113   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                      22. Fair value of financial instruments    
  The carrying amounts of our financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methods see Note 1
 Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis. However, active markets do not exist for
a significant portion of these instruments, principally loans and commitments. As a result, fair value determinations require significant subjective judgments regarding future cash flows. Other judgments would result in different fair values. Among
the assumptions we used are discount rates ranging principally from 3% to 7% at Dec. 31, 2007 and 5% to 8% at Dec. 31, 2006. The fair value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented
throughout this report.      A summary of the practices used for determining fair value is as follows.       Interest-bearing deposits in banks       The fair value interest-bearing
deposits in banks is based on discounted cash flows.       Securities, trading activities, and derivatives used for ALM       The fair value of securities and trading assets and liabilities is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes, or pricing models. Fair value amounts for derivative
instruments, such as options, futures and forward rate contracts, commitments to purchase and sell foreign exchange, and foreign currency swaps, are similarly determined. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the amount that would be received or
paid to terminate the agreement.       Loans and commitments       For certain categories of consumer loans, fair value includes consideration of the quoted market prices for securities backed by similar loans. Discounted future cash flows and secondary market values are used to determine the fair value of
other types of loans. The fair value of commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, and commercial letters of credit is based upon the cost to settle the commitment.       Other financial assets       Fair value is assumed to equal carrying value for these assets due to their short maturity.
        
     Deposits, borrowings, and long-term debt       The fair value of
noninterest-bearing deposits and payables to customers and broker-dealers is assumed to be their carrying amount. The fair value of interest-bearing deposits, borrowings, and long-term debt is based upon current rates for instruments of the same
remaining maturity or quoted market prices for the same or similar issues.       

(a)   
   Revised, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      
       
   114     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                     The table below summarizes the carrying amount
of the hedged financial instruments and the related notional amount of the hedge and estimated fair value (unrealized gain/(loss)) of the derivatives that were linked to these items:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.            
    The following table illustrates the notional amount, remaining
contracts outstanding, and weighted average rates for derivative hedging contracts:   

(a)   
   The forward LIBOR rate shown above reflects the implied forward yield curve for that index at Dec. 31, 2007. However, actual repricings for ALM interest rate swaps are generally
based on 3-month LIBOR.          23. Trading activities       The following table shows the fair value of our financial instruments that are held for trading purposes:       
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     115   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                        
 Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading activities included the following:       
    Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign exchange, futures, and options.

Interest rate contracts reflect results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, and options. Debt securities
primarily reflect income from fixed income securities. Credit derivatives include revenue from credit default swaps. Equities include income from equity securities and equity derivatives. Commodity and other derivatives include option contracts for
barrels of oil related to synthetic fuel tax credits.      The following table of total daily revenue or loss captures trading volatility and shows the number
of days in which our trading revenues fell within particular ranges during the past year.   

(a)   
   Based on revenues before deducting share of joint venture partner, Susquehanna Trading.               24. Commitments and contingent liabilities       In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities
are outstanding which are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.      Our significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are
securities, foreign currency and interest rate risk management products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications. We assume these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide
customers with the ability to meet credit and liquidity needs, to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks, and to trade for our own account. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange, and interest rate risk not
recognized in the balance sheet. Our off-balance sheet risks are managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance-sheet risks. There are no significant industry concentrations of such risks.         
    A summary of our off-balance sheet credit transactions, net of participations, at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006 follows:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.      
 
    The total potential loss on undrawn commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount
if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We   
       
   116     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 also extend facilities which provide liquidity, primarily for variable rate tax-exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit approval for these
facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax exempt issuer and is not simply dependent on the monoline. The allowance for lending-related commitments was $167 million at Dec. 31, 2007 and $150 million at Dec. 31, 2006. A summary of
lending commitment maturities at Dec. 31, 2007, is as follows: $19.1 billion less than one year; $29.2 billion in one to five years, and $.8 billion over five years.      A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation) to a borrower, usually a
broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days. We generally lend securities with indemnification against broker default. We generally require the
borrower to provide 102% cash collateral which is monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk. Security lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly-rated counterparties. Securities lending indemnifications were secured
by collateral of $637 billion at Dec. 31, 2007 and $406 billion at Dec. 21, 2006.      Standby letters of credit principally support corporate obligations and
include $683 million and $1.0 billion that were collateralized with cash and securities at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006. At Dec. 31, 2007, approximately $9.3 billion of the standbys will expire within one year.      The estimated liability for losses related to these arrangements, if any, is included in the reserve for unfunded commitments.      The notional amounts for off-balance sheet risks express the dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller. We perform credit reviews and enter
into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of foreign currency and interest rate risk management products. We enter into offsetting positions to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.         
    A summary of the notional amount and credit exposure of our derivative financial instruments at Dec. 31, 2007 and 2006 follows:       

(a)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York only.         At Dec. 31, 2007, approximately
$226 billion (notional) of interest rate contracts will mature within one year, $407 billion (notional) between one and five years, and the balance after five years. At Dec. 31, 2007, approximately $262 billion (notional) of foreign exchange
contracts will mature within one year and $41 billion between one and five years, and the balance after five years.      Use of derivative financial
instruments involves reliance on counterparties. Failure of a counterparty to honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk we assume whenever we engage in a derivative contract.       Operating Leases       Net rent expense for premises and equipment was
$278 million in 2007, $180 million in 2006 and $181 million in 2005.      At Dec. 31, 2007, we were obligated under various noncancelable lease agreements,
some of which  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     117   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 provide for additional rents based upon real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance and for various renewal options. A summary of the future minimum rental
commitments under noncancelable operating leases, net of related sublease revenue, is as follows: 2008 $331 million; 2009 $254 million; 2010 $239 million; 2011 $218 million; 2012 $204 million; and 2013 through
2027 $1.377 billion.       Other       We have provided
standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing
financial services. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of these risks. We are a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities, or other
transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is
not possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with such agreements.      In the ordinary course of business, we make
certain investments that have tax consequences. From time to time, the IRS may question or challenge the tax position we have taken. We engaged in certain types of structured cross-border leveraged leasing investments, referred to as
 LILOs,  prior to mid-1999 that the IRS has challenged. In 2004, the IRS proposed adjustments to our tax treatment of these transactions. On Feb. 28, 2006, we settled this matter with the IRS relating to LILO transactions closed in
1996 and 1997.      Our 1998 LILO transactions are in a subsequent audit cycle and were not part of the settlement. We believe that a comparable settlement for
1998 may be possible, given the similarity between these leases and the settled leases. However, negotiations are ongoing and the treatment of the 1998 leases may still be litigated if an acceptable settlement cannot be reached. Under current U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles, if the 1998 leases are settled, on a basis comparable to the 1996 and 1997 leases we would not expect the settlement of the 1998 leases to have a further impact on net income, based on existing reserves.
        
    In the fourth quarters of 2005 and 2007, we deposited funds with the IRS in anticipation of reaching a settlement on the 1998 LILO investments.      On Feb. 11, 2005, the IRS released Notice 2005-13, which identified certain lease investments known as  SILOs  as potentially subject to IRS challenge. On
Sept. 6, 2007, we received a draft Form 5701,  Notice of Proposed Adjustment , denying the tax benefits associated with certain of our so-called SILOs. Although it is likely the IRS will challenge the tax benefits associated with all such
leases in 2008, we remain confident that our tax treatment of the leases complied with statutory, administrative and judicial authority existing at the time they were entered into.      In 2001 and 2002, we entered into various structured transactions that involved, among other things, the payment of U.K. corporate income taxes that were credited against our U.S. corporate income tax liability. The
IRS continues to review these transactions and it is likely that some or all of the credits will be challenged upon completion of the review.      On Oct. 9,
2007, we received a letter from the IRS informing us that the IRS is considering designating one such transaction for litigation. At this time, it is unknown if the transaction will ultimately be designated for litigation, but, if so designated, we
are prepared to defend our position and we believe that any tax benefits associated with these transactions were consistent with the applicable statutory, judicial and administrative authority existing at the time they were entered into.   
  Based on a probability assessment of various potential outcomes, we currently believe we have adequate tax reserves to cover our LILO exposure and any other potential
tax exposures. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when appropriate.      In connection with the
acquisition of JPMC s corporate trust business, we were required to file various IRS information and withholding tax returns. While preparing these returns in 2007, we identified certain inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation and
records transferred to us that were needed to file accurate returns. For additional information, see  Legal and Regulatory Proceedings  on page 120.      In the fourth quarter of 2007, we also discovered that other business lines, including the legacy The Bank of  

118     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 New York corporate trust business, may have similar issues and initiated an extensive company-wide review to identify any inconsistencies in the supporting
tax documentation. Any deficiencies that are identified will be promptly remediated. We made an initial disclosure of this matter to the IRS on a voluntary basis in the fourth quarter of 2007 and we continue to work diligently with the IRS to help
resolve the matters. Any exposure resulting from this matter is uncertain and cannot currently be reasonably estimated.       25. Derivative instruments used for
interest rate risk management purposes.       We utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of
fixed-rate loans, asset-backed securities, deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and the interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed-rate item and is a fair value
hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR. There
were no counterparty default losses on these instruments in 2007, 2006 and 2005.      The fixed rate loans hedged generally have an original maturity of 9 to
12 years and are not callable. These loans are hedged with  pay fixed rate, receive variable rate  swaps with similar notional amounts, maturities, and fixed rate coupons. The swaps are not callable. At Dec. 31, 2007, $39 million of loans
were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $39 million.      The securities hedged generally have a weighted average life of 10 years
and are callable six months prior to maturity. These securities are hedged with pay fixed rate, receive variable rate swaps of like maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are callable six months prior to maturity. At Dec. 31, 2007,
$223 million of securities were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $223 million.      The fixed rate deposits hedged generally have
original maturities of 3 to 12 years, and, except for five deposits, are not callable. These deposits are hedged with receive fixed rate, pay variable rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable except
for the five that hedge   
   
 the callable deposits. At Dec. 31, 2007, $660 million of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps which had notional values of $660 million.   
  The fixed rate long-term debt hedged generally has an original maturity of 5 to 30 years. We issue both callable and non-callable debt. The non-callable debt is
hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At Dec. 31, 2007, $9.172 billion of debt was
hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $8.343 billion.      In addition to the fair value hedges discussed above, we have a cash flow
hedge utilizing an interest rate swap to hedge the variability in expected future cash flows attributable to floating rates on a long-term debt issue. The hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and interest rate swaps and
indicates that the derivative is hedging future variable interest payments, that the hedge exposure is the variability in interest payments, and that the strategy is to eliminate variability by converting floating rate interest payments to fixed
payments. For cash flow hedges the interest rate swap is marked-to-market with the changes in value recorded in other comprehensive income. The amount recognized as other comprehensive income for the cash flow hedge is reclassified to net interest
revenue as interest is realized on the hedged item.      The long-term debt hedged has a principal amount of $400 million and has a LIBOR-based floating rate
and a two-year original maturity. The debt is hedged with a receive LIBOR, pay fixed rate swap with the same maturity and interest payment dates as the debt to eliminate the variability in interest payments on the debt. Within the next twelve
months, net pre-tax gains of under $100 thousand included in other comprehensive income are expected to be reclassified to income.      Forward foreign
exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward contracts usually have maturities of less than two years. The derivatives employed are designated as net investment hedges of changes
in value of our foreign investment due to exchange rates, such that changes in value of the forward exchange contracts offset the changes in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value
of these contracts is deferred and reported  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     119   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 within accumulated translation adjustments in shareholders  equity, net of tax effects. At Dec. 31, 2007, foreign exchange contracts, with notional
amounts totaling $4.013 billion, were designated as hedges.      Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as
follows:       

(a)   
   Includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.          26.
Business segments       For details of our business segments, see Business segments review on pages 17 and 18 preceeding the Market indexes table, the
tables, through  Average assets  (excluding  pre-tax operating margin ) on page 19. For details of the primary types of fee revenue generated by each segment, see the sector overview table on page 7. The tables and information in
those paragraphs are incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       27. Legal and regulatory proceedings       In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and potential legal actions, including
actions brought on behalf of various classes of claimants, and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are asserted in certain of these actions and proceedings. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims for disgorgement and the
imposition of penalties and/or other remedial sanctions are possible. Due to the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, the Company cannot ascertain what the eventual outcome of these matters will be. The Company intends to
defend itself vigorously against all of the claims asserted in these legal actions.         
    As previously disclosed in the Company s Form 8-K dated
May 17, 2007, the Federal Customs Service of the Russian Federation is pursuing a claim against The Bank of New York ( BNY ), a subsidiary of the Company. The claim is based on allegations relating to the previously disclosed Russian
funds transfer matter that was the subject of the Company s Non-Prosecution Agreement and alleges violations of U.S. law by failing to supervise and monitor funds transfer activities at BNY. This  lack of action  is alleged to have
resulted in underpayment to the Russian Federation of the value added taxes that were due to be paid by the customers of the bank s clients on certain goods imported into the country. The claim seeks $22.5 billion in  direct and
indirect  losses.      BNY has been defending itself vigorously in this matter and intends to continue to do so. BNY believes it has meritorious
procedural and substantive defenses to the allegations in the Russian courts and also believes it has meritorious defenses to an attempted enforcement of a judgment outside the Russian Federation in countries in which BNY has material assets if a
judgment were to be entered in this matter by the Russian courts.      The Company filed a proof of claim on January 18, 2008, in the Chapter 11
bankruptcy of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ), seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at BNY. At the time of the bankruptcy, the
cash and securities collateral for the loan were valued at over $600 million. The Chapter 11 Trustee for Sentinel recently indicated that he is prepared to file an adversary proceeding against BNY seeking to disallow BNY s claim and asserting a
claim for damages against BNY under a variety of theories including that BNY aided and abetted certain insiders of Sentinel in mis-appropriating customer assets and improperly using those assets as collateral for the loan. BNY has also learned that
the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) has opened an investigation that includes a review of Sentinel s relationship with BNY. While the timing and outcome of the bankruptcy is uncertain, the Company intends to
vigorously pursue its claim.      As previously disclosed in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) is investigating the trading activities of Pershing Trading Company LP, a floor specialist, on two regional exchanges from 1999 to 2004. Because the conduct at  

120     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    (continued)                    
 issue is alleged to have occurred largely during the period when Pershing was owned by Credit Suisse First Boston (USA), Inc. ( CSFB ), the Company
has made claims for indemnification against CSFB relating to this matter under the agreement relating to the acquisition of Pershing. CSFB is disputing these claims for indemnification.      The Company previously disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 that the SEC was investigating the appropriateness of certain expenditures made in connection with marketing and
distribution of the Hamilton Funds. The Company was informed by the SEC Staff on Sept. 11, 2007 that they had concluded their investigation and that no enforcement action was recommended.      The Company previously disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2006 that the SEC was investigating possible market-timing
transactions cleared by Pershing LLC. The Company was informed by the SEC Staff orally that they had concluded their investigation and that no enforcement action was recommended.      As previously reported in a Current Report filed by Mellon on Form 8-K dated Sept. 30, 2005, Mellon Investor Services LLC ( MIS ) received a  Wells Notice  from the SEC relating to MIS 
disclosure practices to its transfer agency (issuer) clients during the period 2001 through late 2004 concerning the receipt of fees from a search firm that performs in-depth searches for  lost  shareholders. The Company was informed by
the SEC Staff on Aug. 16, 2007 that they had concluded their investigation and that no enforcement action was recommended.         
    In connection with the acquired JPMorgan Chase corporate trust
business, BNY was required to file various IRS information and withholding tax returns for 2006. In preparing to do so, BNY identified certain inconsistencies in the supporting tax documentation and records transferred to BNY that were needed to
file accurate returns. The Company and JPMorgan Chase jointly disclosed this matter to the IRS on a voluntary basis in a meeting on Sept. 7, 2007 and the Company believes it will receive additional time to remediate the issues. The Company and
JPMorgan Chase are attempting to resolve the information reporting and withholding issues presented. While there can be no assurance, the Company believes that after remediation the potential financial exposure will be immaterial, and, in any event,
BNY is indemnified by JPMorgan Chase for the 2006 tax withholding and reporting obligations associated with the acquisition.   
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     121   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM                 The Board of Directors and Shareholders of      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( the Corporation ) as of
December 31, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. The accompanying consolidated balance sheet of the Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006, and the related
consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the two years ended December 31, 2006, were audited by other auditors whose report, dated February 21, 2007, was unqualified and included an
explanatory paragraph that described the change in the Corporation s method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Corporation s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 27, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.     

      New York, New York      February 27, 2008         
   122     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

Table of Contents  

    DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE              

Directors            Frank J. Biondi, Jr.      Senior Managing Director     WaterView Advisors LLC     Investment advisor          Ruth E. Bruch      Senior Vice President and     Chief Information Officer     Kellogg Company     Cereal and convenience foods          Nicholas M. Donofrio      Executive Vice President, Innovation and Technology     IBM Corporation     Developer, manufacturer and provider of advanced information technologies and services          Steven G. Elliott      Senior Vice Chairman     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation          Gerald L. Hassell      President     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation          Edmund F.  Ted 
Kelly      Chairman, President and Chief     Executive
Officer     Liberty Mutual Group     Multi-line insurance
company          Robert P. Kelly      Chief Executive Officer     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation          Richard J. Kogan      Principal     The KOGAN Group LLC          Michael J. Kowalski      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tiffany   Co.     International designer, manufacturer and distributor of jewelry and fine goods          John A. Luke, Jr.      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     MeadWestvaco Corporation     Manufacturer of paper, packaging and specialty chemicals   
      
     Robert Mehrabian          Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Teledyne Technologies, Inc.
     Advanced industrial technologies          Mark A. Nordenberg      Chancellor     University of Pittsburgh     Major public research university          Catherine A. Rein      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer     MetLife, Inc.     Insurance and financial services company          Thomas A. Renyi      Executive Chairman     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation          William C. Richardson      President and Chief Executive     Officer Emeritus     The W.K. Kellogg Foundation     Private foundation          Samuel C. Scott
III      Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Corn
Products International, Inc.     Global producers of corn-refined products and ingredients          John P. Surma      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     United States Steel Corporation     Steel manufacturing          Wesley W. von Schack      Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer     Energy East Corporation     Energy services company           Senior Management            Thomas A. Renyi      Executive Chairman          Robert P. Kelly   
  Chief Executive Officer          Gerald L. Hassell      President   
      
      Executive Committee            Torry Berntsen      Chief Client Management Officer          Richard F. Brueckner      Chief Executive Officer     Pershing LLC          Steven G. Elliott      Senior Vice Chairman     Co-Head, Integration          Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons      Chief Risk Officer          Timothy F. Keaney      Co-Chief Executive Officer     BNY Mellon Asset Servicing          Carl Krasik      General Counsel          David F. Lamere      Chief Executive Officer     BNY Mellon Wealth Management          Jonathan Little      Vice Chairman, BNY Mellon Asset Management     Chairman, BNY Asset Management International     Chairman, The Dreyfus Corporation          Donald R. Monks      Vice Chairman     Co-Head, Integration          Ronald P. O Hanley      Chief Executive Officer and President     BNY Mellon Asset Management  
       James P. Palermo      Co-Chief Executive Officer     BNY Mellon Asset Servicing          Karen B. Peetz      Chief Executive Officer     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporate Trust          Lisa B. Peters      Chief Human Resources Officer          Brian G. Rogan 
     Chief Executive Officer     The Bank of New York Mellon  
  Issuer and Treasury Services          Bruce W. Van Saun      Vice Chairman     Chief Financial Officer          Kurt D. Woetzel      Chief Information Officer    
       
   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     123   

Table of Contents  

    PERFORMANCE GRAPH                

This graph shows The Bank of New York Mellon s cumulative total shareholder returns over the five-year period
from Dec. 31, 2002 to Dec. 31, 2007. The graph reflects total shareholder returns for The Bank of New York from Dec. 31, 2002 to June 29, 2007, and for The Bank of New York Mellon from July 2, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2007. June 29, 2007 was
the last day of trading on the NYSE of The Bank of New York stock and July 2, 2007 was the first day of trading on the NYSE of The Bank of New York Mellon stock. We are showing combined The Bank of New York   The Bank of New York Mellon
shareholder returns because The Bank of New York Mellon does not have a five-year history as a public company. The graph also shows the cumulative total returns for the same five-year period of the S P 500 index, as well as our old and new peer
groups (listed below). After the merger, we reevaluated the composition of our peer group and determined that a change was appropriate. Our new peer group is composed of asset managers and institutional service providers that represent our primary
competitors. The comparison assumes a $100 investment on Dec. 31, 2002 in The Bank of New York stock (which was converted on a .9434 for one basis into The Bank of New York Mellon stock on July 1, 2007), in the S P 500 Index and in each of
the peer groups shown and assumes that all dividends were reinvested.       

New Peer Group*    
      
     Old Peer Group*     
 
    AllianceBernstein Holdings LP   
      
  BB   T Corporation   
 
    BlackRock, Inc.   
      
  Bear Stearns Companies, Inc.   
 
    JP MorganChase   Co.   
      
  Fifth Third Bancorp   
 
    Legg Mason, Inc.   
      
  Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.   
 
    Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.   
      
  National City Corporation   
 
    Northern Trust Corporation   
      
  Northern Trust Corporation   
 
    PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
      
  PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
 
    Prudential Financial, Inc.   
      
  State Street Corporation   
 
    State Street Corporation   
      
  SunTrust Banks, Inc.   
 
    SunTrust Banks, Inc.   
      
  US Bancorp   
 
    US Bancorp   
      
  Wachovia Corporation   
 
    Wachovia Corporation   

*  
  Individual returns are weighted by market capitalization at the end of each year.           
   124     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 8
 dex211.htm
 PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE CORPORATION

Primary subsidiaries of the Corporation 

Exhibit 21.1        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE CORPORATION      (a)                 DEC. 31, 2007        

Agency Brokerage Holdings, LLC   State of Incorporation: New York      

Alcentra Inc.   State of Incorporation: California      

BNY Capital Markets, Inc.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY ConvergEx Execution Solutions LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Holdings (Delaware) Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Investment Center, Inc.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY Mellon Asset Management International Ltd.   Incorporation: United Kingdom      

BNY Mellon Global Securities Services BV   Incorporation: Netherlands      

BNY Trade Insurance, Ltd.   Incorporation: Bermuda      

BNY Trading LLC   State of Incorporation: New York      

Boston Safe Advisors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

Boston Safe Deposit Finance Company, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

B-Trade Services LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

CIBC Mellon GSS Company   Incorporation: Canada      

CIBC Mellon Trust Company   Incorporation: Canada      

ConvergEx Holdings LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

DPM Mellon LLC   State of Incorporation: Nevada      

Dreyfus Service Organization, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Dreyfus Transfer Inc.   State of Incorporation: Maryland      

EACM Advisors LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Estabrook Capital Management, LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Founders Asset Management LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Franklin Portfolio Associates LLC   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

Gannett Welsh and Kotler, LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

G-Trade Services LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Hamon Investment Group PTE Limited   Incorporation: Singapore      

Ivy Asset Management Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Lockwood Advisors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Lockwood Capital Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBC SPC Leasing ULC   Incorporation: Nova Scotia      

MBSC Securities Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

MelDel Leasing Corp #2   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon 1   st    Business
Bank, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Bank (Channel Islands) Limited   Incorporation: Guernsey      

Mellon Bank, N.A.   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Canada Holdings Company   Incorporation: Canada      

Mellon Capital Management   State of Incorporation: California      

Mellon Chile Holdings SA   Incorporation: Chile      

Mellon Equity Associates LLP   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Mellon Financial Markets LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Global Management Ltd.   Incorporation: Ireland      

Mellon Hedge Advisors LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE CORPORATION      (a)                 DEC. 31, 2007       Continued       

Mellon International Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Investor Services LLC   State of Incorporation: New Jersey      

Mellon Investor Services Holdings LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Life Insurance Company   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Overseas Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Private Trust Company, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Securities Investments LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Securities LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Servicios Financaieros   Incorporation: Brazil      

Mellon Trust Company of Illinois  State of Incorporation: Illinois      

Mellon Trust of Delaware, N.A.   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Trust of New England, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Trustees Ltd.   Incorporation: Ireland      

Mellon United National Bank   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Ventures III, LP   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Ventures IV LP   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Newton Capital Management, LTD   Incorporation: England      

Pareto Investment Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Pershing Advisor Solutions LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Pershing Group LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Pershing LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Promontory International Financial Network, LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Standish Mellon Asset Management Company LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

TBC Securities Co, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

The Bank of New York Delaware   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

The Bank of New York   State of Incorporation: New York      

The Bank of New York Capital Markets Limited   Incorporation: England      

The Bank of New York Trust Co., N.A.   Incorporation: United States      

The Boston Company Asset Management LLC   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

The Dreyfus Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Urdang Capital Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Urdang Securities Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Walter Scott and Partners Limited   Incorporation: Scotland      

West LB Mellon Asset Management (USA) LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware          

(a)   
   The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. are significant subsidiaries as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X. The subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
not listed above collectively do not constitute a significant subsidiary.      

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED        PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors      of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:
     We consent to incorporation by reference in:       
    of our reports dated February 27, 2008 with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for the year then ended, and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, which reports are incorporated by reference in the December 31, 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.      /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 27, 2008   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 10
 dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

Exhibit 23.2        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED        PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM           We consent to the inclusion in this Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (successor
by merger to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.) of our report dated February 21, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. included in the Annual Report of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation.      We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 21, 2007, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. included in this Annual Report of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, in the following Registration Statements:       
    / S / E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      New York, New York      February 28, 2008   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-24.1>
 11
 dex241.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1       POWER OF ATTORNEY      THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION      Know all men by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Carl Krasik and Arlie R. Nogay, and each of them, such
person s true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and revocation, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports on Form 10-K
pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2007, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file same with all exhibits
thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and
perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents and each of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      This power of attorney shall be
effective as of February 27, 2008 and shall continue in full force and effect until revoked by the undersigned in a writing filed with the Secretary of the Corporation.       

/s/ Frank J. Biondi, Jr.   

/s/ Robert Mehrabian    
 
    Frank J. Biondi, Jr., Director   

Robert Mehrabian, Director   

/s/ Ruth E. Bruch   

/s/ Mark A. Nordenberg    
 
    Ruth E. Bruch, Director   

Mark A. Nordenberg, Director   

/s/ Nicholas M. Donofrio   

/s/ Catherine A. Rein    
 
    Nicholas M. Donofrio, Director   

Catherine A. Rein, Director   

/s/ Steven G. Elliott   

/s/ Thomas A. Renyi    
 
    Steven G. Elliott, Director   

Thomas A. Renyi, Director   

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

/s/ William C. Richardson    
 
    Gerald L. Hassell, Director   

William C. Richardson, Director   

/s/ Edmund F. Kelly   

/s/ Samuel C. Scott, III    
 
    Edmund F. Kelly, Director   

Samuel C. Scott, III, Director   

/s/ Richard J. Kogan   

/s/ John P. Surma    
 
  Richard J. Kogan, Director  

John P. Surma, Director   

/s/ Michael J. Kowalski   

/s/ Wesley W. von Schack    
 
  Michael J. Kowalski, Director  

Wesley W. von Schack, Director   

/s/ John A. Luke, Jr.   

John A. Luke, Jr., Director  

-2-   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

Section 302 Certification of the CEO 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Robert P. Kelly, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  February 28, 2008  

/s/ Robert P.
Kelly   

Name:  
      
  Robert P. Kelly  

Title:  
      
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

Section 302 Certification of the CFO 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Bruce W. Van Saun, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant          

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:  February 28, 2008  

/s/ Bruce W. Van
Saun   

Name:  
      
  Bruce W. Van Saun  

Title:  
      
  Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CEO

Section 906 Certification of the CEO 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation (the  Corporation ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

Dated: February 28, 2008  

/s/ Robert P.
Kelly                               

Name:  
      
  Robert P. Kelly  

Title:  
      
  Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF THE CFO

Section 906 Certification of the CFO 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation (the  Corporation ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that the Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2007 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

Dated: February 28, 2008  

/s/ Bruce W. Van
Saun                       

Name:  
      
  Bruce W. Van Saun  

Title:  
      
  Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.2>

