<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110228_10-K_edgar_data_1390777_0001193125-11-049932_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>56200757</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>765387</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11008374</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5353911</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>13988521</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>24003065</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>246</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-049932.hdr.sgml : 20110228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110228161642
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-049932
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Bank of New York Mellon CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001390777
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-52710
		FILM NUMBER:		11646301

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-495-1784

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LPHO5glFjyv+Z8DMud7kGhAT++UcMCRdRl6hZ2jVtvtX1eg90LyXJWWxl1pUpZBQ
 XhppujlS9R0BJC9iIirCAg==

 0001193125-11-049932.txt : 20110228

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010        or        
 
   Commission File No. 000-52710         
        THE BANK OF
NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Delaware   
     
   13-2614959    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)          One Wall Street    
   New York, New York 10286        (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)        Registrant s
telephone number, including area code - (212) 495-1784        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class    

Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
   Common Stock, $0.01 par value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   6.875% Preferred Trust Securities, Series E of BNY Capital IV*   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   5.95% Preferred Trust Securities, Series F of BNY Capital V*   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities of Mellon Capital IV*   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    

* Fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   
     
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
   None    
   (Title of Class)         
       Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).         Yes         No      As of June 30, 2010, 1,209,157,971 shares, of the total outstanding shares of 1,214,041,681, of the registrant s outstanding voting common stock, $0.01 par value per share, having a market
value of $29,854,110,304, were held by nonaffiliates.      As of January 31, 2011, 1,241,829,226 shares of the registrant s voting
common stock, $0.01 par value per share, were outstanding.        
        DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference in the following parts of this Form 10-K:
     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2011 Proxy Statement-Part III   
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders-Parts I, II, and IV   

Table of Contents  

Available Information       This Form 10-K filed by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon  or the  Company ) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) contains the Exhibits
listed on the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 35, including those portions of BNY Mellon s 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders (the  Annual Report ), which are incorporated herein by reference. For a free copy of BNY
Mellon s Annual Report or BNY Mellon s Proxy Statement for its 2011 Annual Meeting (the  Proxy ), as filed with the SEC, send a written request by email to  corpsecretary@bnymellon.com  or by mail to the Secretary of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286. BNY Mellon s Annual Report is, and the Proxy upon filing with the SEC will be, available on our website at www.bnymellon.com. We also make available, free of charge, on
our website BNY Mellon s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with,
or furnish them to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). The following materials are also available, free of charge, on our website at www.bnymellon.com under
 Investor Relations, Corporate Governance  and are also available free of charge in print by written request from the Secretary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation at One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286, or
 corpsecretary@bnymellon.com :       

BNY Mellon s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees, including BNY Mellon s senior financial officers;

BNY Mellon s Directors  Code of Conduct, which is applicable to our directors;      

BNY Mellon s Corporate Governance Guidelines; and      

the Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk, and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees
of the Board of Directors.         The contents of BNY Mellon s website are not part of this Form 10-K.

Forward-looking Statements       This Form 10-K contains statements relating to future results of BNY Mellon that are considered  forward-looking statements.  These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways,
including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things: all statements about the future results of BNY Mellon, projected business growth, statements with respect to the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory
and investigatory proceedings, and BNY Mellon s plans, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to: the effect of regulation of current financial markets on competition; the implementation and impact of
pending and proposed legislation and regulation, including the Federal Reserve and Financial Stability Boards  proposals on Basel II and Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act; expectations with respect to the well-capitalized status of BNY Mellon
and its bank subsidiaries; the timing and ability to pay dividends by us and our bank subsidiaries and our liquidity targets; the FDIC s rule regarding adjustments to the assessment base and the impact on our business; the liability of our
affiliates in certain circumstances; targeted capital ratios; statements regarding our internal capital generation and a strong balance sheet; the adequacy of our owned and leased facilities; access to capital markets; the adequacy of reserves;
statements regarding risks that we may face including the impact of the following items: uncertainty in global financial markets and market volatility; adverse publicity; regulatory actions and litigation; government supervision and regulation;
write-downs of financial instruments; interest rates; changes to deposit insurance premiums; increased competition; declines in capital markets on our fee-based businesses; stable exchange-rate environment and declines in cross-border activity;
acquisitions; changes to credit ratings; soundness of other financial institutions; monetary policy and other governmental regulations; failures relating to controls and procedures; breaches of technology or employees; global regulation, conflicts
and acts of terrorism; our success of new lines of business; the loss of key employees; tax and accounting pronouncements; and the estimations of reasonable possible loss with respect to legal proceedings and the expected outcome and impact of
judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings, and matters relating to the information returns and withholding tax.      These forward-looking statements, and other forward-looking statements contained in other public

BNY Mellon 1

Table of Contents  

disclosures of BNY Mellon (including those incorporated in this Form 10-K) are based on assumptions that
involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s control), including those factors described in  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this
Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process.   
  In this report, and other public disclosures of BNY Mellon, words, such as  estimate,   forecast, 

project,   anticipate,   confident,   target,   expect, 
 intend,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities, 
 trends  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements.      All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date
on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated
events.   

2 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

      THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
   FORM 10-K INDEX        

PART I    

Item 1.   
      
     Business    

4  

Item 1A.   
      
     Risk factors    

16  

Item 1B.   
      
     Unresolved staff comments    

26  

Item 2.   
      
     Properties    

26  

Item 3.   
      
     Legal proceedings    

27  

PART II    

Item 5.   
      
     Market for the registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity
 securities    

28  

Item 6.   
      
     Selected financial data    

28  

Item 7.   
      
     Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations    

28  

Item 7A.   
      
     Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk    

28  

Item 8.   
      
     Financial statements and supplementary data    

28  

Item 9.   
      
     Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial
disclosure    

28  

Item 9A.   
      
     Controls and procedures    

28  

Item 9B.   
      
    Other information   

Not applicable  

PART III    

Item 10.   
      
     Directors, executive officers and corporate governance    

30  

Item 11.   
      
     Executive compensation    

32  

Item 12.   
      
     Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder
matters    

32  

Item 13.   
      
     Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence    

32  

Item 14.   
      
     Principal accounting fees and services    

32  

PART IV    

Item 15.   
      
     Exhibits, financial statement schedules     

33  

Signatures    

34  

Index to exhibits    

35  

Table of Contents  

    PART I    

ITEM 1. BUSINESS    
    Description of Business        The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon ), a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with $1.17 trillion in assets under management and $25.0 trillion in
assets under custody and administration as of Dec. 31, 2010. We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing Services; Treasury Services and Other.   
  For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s products and services, see the  Overview  and  Review of businesses  sections in the
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) section in the Annual Report and Note 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which
portions are incorporated herein by reference. See  Available Information  on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.
     We were formed as a bank holding company and have our executive offices in New York. With its predecessors, BNY Mellon has been in business
since 1784.      On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged
into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity.      Our two principal banks are:   

The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, formerly named  The Bank of New York , which houses our institutional
businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.      

BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named  Mellon Bank, N.A. , which
houses our Wealth Management business.      
 
   Our U.S. bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking
services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) to the extent provided by law.   
  We have two U.S. trust companies   The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. These
companies house trust products and services across the U.S. Also concentrating on trust products and services is BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank. Most asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or
indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.      Information on international operations is presented in the  Net interest revenue ,
 International operations ,  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans   Loans by product , and  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans   International loans  sections in the MD A  
Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Note 6 and Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and in  Risk Factors   Global Operations , in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, which
portions are incorporated herein by reference.       Primary Subsidiaries       Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2010.       Discontinued Operations       As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report, BNY Mellon reports results using the discontinued operations method of accounting. Note 4 is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects
continuing operations unless otherwise noted.        Supervision and Regulation     
  BNY Mellon, including through its subsidiaries, engages in banking, investment advisory and other securities-related activities in the United States and

4 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

approximately 35 other countries. We are subject to extensive regulation worldwide. Regulatory bodies
around the world are generally charged with protecting the interests of customers, including depositors in banking entities and investors in mutual funds and other vehicles our subsidiaries may advise, and safeguarding the integrity of securities
and other financial markets. They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of our shareholders or creditors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and its
subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by
regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. For additional discussion of recent and proposed regulatory initiatives that may impact our business, see
 Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.      The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
 Dodd-Frank Act  or  Dodd-Frank ), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States, including through the creation of a new systemic risk oversight body, the
Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ). The FSOC will coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ),
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ), the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) and the FDIC) in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns. The Dodd-Frank Act
directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve Board as to supervisory requirements and heightened prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected bank holding companies and non-bank financial companies supervised by the
Federal Reserve Board under Dodd-Frank, often referred to as  systemically important financial institutions , including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements
applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. Although the criteria for treatment as a systemically important financial institution have not yet been determined, it
is probable that they will apply to BNY Mellon.   
 
   In addition to the framework for systemic risk oversight implemented through the FSOC, the Dodd-Frank Act
broadly affects the financial services industry by creating a resolution authority, and through numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. As discussed further throughout this section, many
aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on BNY Mellon or across the industry. In addition to the discussion in this section, see
 Risk Factors   Recent legislative actions may have an adverse effect on the Company s operations.  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.       Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon       BNY Mellon is regulated as a bank holding company and a
financial holding company ( FHC ) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and by the Dodd-Frank Act (the  BHC Act ). As such, it
is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board. In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies that are FHCs to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries,
engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in
any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the
Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the
Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.   
  Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to qualify as
 well capitalized  as described under  Prompt Corrective Action  below. Beginning in July 2011, our FHC status will also depend upon BNY Mellon

BNY Mellon 5

Table of Contents  

maintaining its status as  well capitalized  and  well managed  under applicable
Federal Reserve Board regulations. An FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not
generally permissible for bank holding companies without FHC status or to continue such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements.   
  The Bank of New York Mellon, which is BNY Mellon s largest bank subsidiary, is a New York state chartered bank, is a member of the Federal Reserve
System and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the  NYSBD ). BNY Mellon s national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, National Association, are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.      We operate a number of
broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC registered broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), a securities industry
self-regulatory organization. BNY Mellon s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated by supervisory agencies in the countries in which they conduct business. Certain of BNY Mellon s public finance
activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of BNY Mellon s subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.
     Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended and, as such, are
supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies
broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the   40 Act ), including the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the  40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our
subsidiaries are   
 
   qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies
that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification.      Our financial services operations in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ). Certain of BNY Mellon s United Kingdom
incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( FSMA 2000 ). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of
retail investment products are regulated by the FSA. The FSA has broad supervisory and disciplinary powers. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a
breach of FSMA 2000 and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including BNY Mellon Investment Funds, an
open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of BNY Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.      The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board.
Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate and, in the case of banking subsidiaries, may be subject to regulatory capital requirements in the
jurisdictions in which they operate. As of Dec. 31, 2010, each of BNY Mellon s non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.       Dividend Restrictions       Dividend payments by BNY Mellon to its shareholders are subject to
the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. On Nov. 17, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board issued Revised Temporary Addendum to SR letter 09-4. The letter described the process the Federal Reserve Board will follow to assess comprehensive capital plans
of the 19 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program bank holding companies, including any request to take capital   

6 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

actions such as increased dividends or stock buybacks. The Federal Reserve Board indicated that the capital
plans will be assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company s ability to achieve the Basel III capital ratio requirements referred to below as they are phased in by U.S. regulators and any potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act
on the company s risk profile, business strategy, corporate structure or capital adequacy. Our comprehensive capital plans, which were prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, included bank developed baseline and stress projections as well as
a supervisory stress projection using adverse macroeconomic assumptions provided by the Federal Reserve Board. Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends would require consultation with the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal
Reserve Board s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.   
  BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are
our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust preferred securities issued
by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory   
  consent. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The
OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would reduce a depository institution s capital to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the  FDI Act ), an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is under capitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become
undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which

provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.   
  In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. is limited to the lesser of the amounts
calculated under a  recent earnings  test and an  undivided profits  test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared and paid by the entity in any calendar year exceeds the
current year s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity s
 undivided profits  (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). As a result of charges related to the restructuring of BNY Mellon s securities portfolio in 2009, The Bank of
New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. will require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend. The ability of BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for
banking organizations.      For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the  Liquidity and dividends  section in the
MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and the first five paragraphs of Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Further, BNY
Mellon s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.   
   Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders    
  Transactions between BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon and its non-bank subsidiaries are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. These
regulations limit the types and amounts of transactions (including loans due and extensions of credit from the U.S. bank subsidiaries) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arm s-length basis. These
regulations generally do not apply to transactions between a U.S. bank subsidiary and its subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified

BNY Mellon 7

Table of Contents  

collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending
bank s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered
transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking
organization. For example, commencing in July 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act will require that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. Commencing in July 2012, Dodd-Frank has also expanded the definition
of a  covered transaction  to include derivatives transactions under which a bank (or a subsidiary) has credit exposure (with the term  credit exposure  to be defined by the Federal Reserve Board under its existing rulemaking
authority), as well as repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements.       Deposit Insurance    
  Our U.S. banking subsidiaries, including The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. accept deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC
insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund (the  DIF ) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits
that it holds. The FDIC required all insured depository institutions to prepay estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. Under
the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law,
regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank s federal regulatory agency.      On Feb. 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted regulations
required under the Dodd-Frank Act which set forth a new method of calculating assessments paid by large insured depository institutions, including BNY Mellon. The new regulations base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the
average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period, with adjustments for custody banks, including BNY Mellon. We expect the FDIC assessment rule to have a minimal impact in 2011. For additional discussion
about FDIC assessments, see  Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Source of Strength and Liability of Affiliates    
  Federal Reserve Board policy historically has required bank holding companies to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit
capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this policy as a statutory requirement. Such support may be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide
it. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the
bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, in certain circumstances BNY Mellon s insured depository
institutions could be assessed for losses incurred by another BNY Mellon insured depository institution. In the event of impairment of capital stock of one of BNY Mellon s national banks or The Bank of New York Mellon, the bank s
stockholders could be required to pay such deficiency.       Capital Requirements       As a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements,
administered by the Federal Reserve Board in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the OCC in the case of our national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. These
requirements are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.      The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to bank holding companies are based on the 1988 Capital Accord ( Basel I ) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel
Committee ). The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for  core banks , including BNY Mellon, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and
Capital Standards ( Basel II ) issued by the Basel Committee in June 2004 and updated in November 2005. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity

8 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as  Basel III.  Basel III, when
implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additional information on the calculation
of our Tier 1 capital, Total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in  Capital  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, and additional information on our capital requirements is set forth in
 Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.       Basel I       Under the existing Basel I-based regulations, the risk-based capital ratio is
determined by dividing the components of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The regulatory capital rules state that voting common
stockholders  equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-common equity elements. Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain
off-balance sheet items into weighted categories. The required minimum ratio of  Total capital  (the sum of  Tier 1  and  Tier 2  capital) to risk-adjusted assets is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier 1
capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking
organization may be exposed to ( e.g. , interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The Federal Reserve Board may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks ( e.g.  systematically important financial
institutions), or for an individual bank as situations warrant. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels,
without significant reliance on intangible assets. Other factors identified by the risk-based capital requirements as important in assessing an institution s overall capital adequacy include concentration of credit risk and certain risks
arising from non-traditional activities, including the management of those risks. At Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon s Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and Total capital ratios were 13.4% and 16.3%, respectively.

In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange
and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the
banking organizations  own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators. In January 2011, the Federal Banking Agencies published proposed amendments to their market risk rules, known as  Basel II.5. 
Those changes will result in increased capital requirements for market risk.       Basel II    
  The federal bank regulatory agencies are mandating the adoption of Basel II for  core  banks. BNY Mellon and its depository institution
subsidiaries are  core  banks. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for
operational risk.      The U.S. Basel II final rule became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule in its current form, 2009 was the
first year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old regulations and new regulations. The U.S. Basel II rules currently
provide that  core  banks would calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of the three transitional floor periods. In the U.S., we began the parallel run of calculations under both
the old and new guidelines in the second quarter of 2010. Dodd-Frank requires the U.S. banking agencies to amend their capital rules to provide that minimum capital as required under the Basel I-based rules will act as a floor for minimum
capital requirements calculated in accordance with the U.S. Basel II rules. Accordingly, the transition for  core  banks to calculations only under the Basel II-based requirements is being eliminated. Beginning Jan. 1, 2008, we implemented
the Basel II Standardized Approach for our banks organized in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process. We
believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices.       Basel III    
  The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:

BNY Mellon 9

Table of Contents  

introduces as a new capital measure  Common Equity Tier 1  ,  or  CET1 , specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and
 Additional Tier 1 capital  instruments meeting specified requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands the
scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;          

when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:      

as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5%  capital conservation
buffer  (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);      

a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1
capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);          

a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is
added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation);      

as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus
certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter); and          

provides for a  countercyclical capital buffer , generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit
growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).
        The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a
ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital

conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints
on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.      The implementation of the Basel III final framework
will commence Jan. 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:       

4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and          

8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.         The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets
dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1.
     Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on Jan. 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20%
per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on Jan. 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent Jan. 1, until it reaches 2.5% on Jan. 1, 2019).   
  The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that they expect to propose regulations implementing Basel III in mid-2011 with final adoption of
implementing regulations in mid-2012. Notwithstanding its release of the Basel III framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is considering further amendments to Basel III, including the imposition of additional capital surcharges on
globally systemically important financial institutions, which could include BNY Mellon. In addition to Basel III, Dodd-Frank requires the Federal banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting banking institutions  capital requirements in a
number of respects, including potentially more stringent capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions. Accordingly, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially different from the Basel III final
framework as published in December 2010.   

10 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Impact on BNY Mellon       Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change, and the scope and content of capital regulations that the U.S. banking agencies may adopt under Dodd-Frank is uncertain, we cannot be certain of the
impact new capital regulations will have on our capital ratios. However, given our balance sheet strength and ongoing internal capital generation, we currently estimate that our Tier 1 common ratio, under Basel III guidelines, will be above 7% by
Dec. 31, 2011. This estimated ratio includes an anticipated dividend increase and potential share repurchases in 2011, assuming Federal Reserve Board approval.       Leverage Requirement       Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an
international standard. However, even though a leverage requirement has not been an international standard in the past, the U.S. banking agencies  capital regulations do require bank holding companies and banks to comply with a minimum leverage
ratio requirement (Basel III will impose a leverage requirement as an international standard). The Federal Reserve Board s existing leverage ratio for bank holding companies is that the bank holding company maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to
its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The rules require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either
have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has
not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was 5.8%. Also, the rules indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a  tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio  in evaluating
proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization s Tier 1 capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).   
   Liquidity Ratios under Basel III    
  Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and
internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures
historically applied by banks and   
 
   regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test,
referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if
greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking
entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding
source. The liquidity coverage ratio would be implemented subject to an observation period beginning in 2011, but would not be introduced as a requirement until Jan. 1, 2015, and the net stable funding ratio would not be introduced as a requirement
until Jan. 1, 2018. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms may well change before implementation.       Prompt
Corrective Action       The FDI Act, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ),
requires the federal banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action  in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks:
well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically under-capitalized. A depository institution is deemed to be  well capitalized  if the banking institution has a total risk-based
capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action
directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is
classified.      At Dec. 31, 2010, all of our bank subsidiaries were  well capitalized  based on the ratios and guidelines noted above.
A bank s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank s overall financial condition or prospects.

BNY Mellon 11

Table of Contents  

Depositor Preference       Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims
against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution by any receiver.       Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act       A major focus of governmental policy on
financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  USA Patriot Act ) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and
regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a
number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies
advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify
the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure
of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.   
   Privacy       The privacy provisions of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have
the opportunity to  opt out  of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.

Acquisitions       Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the
Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding company. In reviewing bank
acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization,
convenience and needs factors, including the applicant s record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 which requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities (including credit to low and moderate income individuals
and geographies) and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to informal notice and approval by the Federal Reserve Board or other
regulatory authorities.        Competition        BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses experience competition from asset management firms, hedge
funds, investment banking companies, and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. These firms and companies may be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Issuer
Services, Clearing Services and Treasury Services businesses compete with domestic and foreign banks that offer institutional trust, custody products and cash management products, as well as a wide range of technologically capable service providers,
such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer services for institutional and retail customers.      Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the
 Supervision and Regulation  section of this Form 10-K and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.

12 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

In recent years there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services
industry. Many broad-based financial services firms now have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset management, which may enhance their competitive position. As a result of
current conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general, competition could continue to intensify and consolidation of financial service companies could continue to increase.   
  As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe
that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have
devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. For additional discussion regarding competition, see Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K,  Risk Factors   Competition   We are subject to intense competition in all
aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability  below, which is incorporated herein by reference.        Employees        At Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately
48,000 employees.        Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies        The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Exchange Act Industry Guide 3 (together  Guide 3 ) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual reports
on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.       

I.  
  Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders  Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential     
  Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and
 Supplemental information   Rate/volume analysis  sections in the MD A and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

II.  
  Investment Portfolio         

A.  
  Book Value of Investments;         

B.  
  Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,         

C.  
  Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders  Equity     
  Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and  Consolidated
balance sheet review - Investment securities  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section and in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   

III.  
  Loan Portfolio         

A.  
  Types of Loans and         

B.  
  Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates        Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans  section in the MD A   Results of
Operations section and Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

C.  
  Risk Elements and         

D.  
  Other Interest-bearing Assets        Information
required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans and   Nonperforming assets  and  International operations- Cross-border risk  sections in the
MD A   Results of Operations section and Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   

IV.  
  Summary of Loan Loss Experience        Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Critical accounting estimates   Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section, which
portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.      When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is
charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented   

BNY Mellon 13

Table of Contents  

in the  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  section in the MD A   Results of
Operations section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.      Further information on our
credit policies, the factors that influenced management s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the  Risk management
  Credit risk  and  Critical accounting estimates  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Allowance for loan losses and allowance for
lending related commitments  and in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

V.  
  Deposits        Information required by this section
of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and  Consolidated balance sheet review - Deposits  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section and in Note 9 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

VI.  
  Return on Equity and Assets        Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Financial summary  section, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

VII.  
  Short - Term Borrowings        Information required by
this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review   Short-term borrowings  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by
reference.        Replacement Capital Covenant        On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the  RCC ) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of  200,050,000 aggregate principal
amount of Mellon Financial s 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities, due 2066 (the  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities ) to Mellon Capital III (the  Trust ) and the issuance by the Trust of

200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust s 6.369% trust preferred securities (the
 Preferred Securities ). We refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the  Securities.  Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial s obligations under the
RCC.      BNY Mellon agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for
money borrowed, called  Covered Debt  in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:       

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve
Board s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, and          

the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash
proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally
described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and

BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to
capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.         The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have
CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term   

14 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes
due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series
in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other
eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC
but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.   
  The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The
description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.      On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a
Replacement Capital Covenant (the  2007 RCC ) in connection with (i) the issuance by Mellon Capital IV (the  2007 Trust ) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or  Normal
PCS  (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the  PCS ), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the issuance by Mellon
Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or  Junior Notes , and a 1/100th interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which the 2007 Trust is obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial is obligated to
sell, one share of Mellon Financial s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the  Preferred Stock ). Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial s obligation
under the 2007 RCC.      BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term
indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered Debt , that on or before the  Stock Purchase Date , as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before the
 Termination   
 
   Date , as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022), with respect to the PCS or
Preferred Stock (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the  2007 Securities ):       

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless      

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve
Board s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and          

the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and
its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are
expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.      
  The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon s
5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease
to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in
part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility
requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but
is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon s long-term indebtedness for money

BNY Mellon 15

Table of Contents  

borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.   
  The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The
description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.         ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS       Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should
carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this
Form 10-K or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document address all potential risks that we
may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form
10-K. See  Forward-looking Statements.         Uncertainties in global financial markets and the economy generally may materially
adversely affect our business and results of operations.        Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the
domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. While there are indications that both the financial markets and the economy are recovering from the recent worldwide recession, a
variety of factors raise concern over the course and strength of the recovery, including low interest rates, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment, governmental budget deficits
(including, in the U.S., at the federal, state and municipal level), contagion risk from possible default by other countries on sovereign debt, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation. These factors continue to
have a significant effect on both the global economy and our business. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and
results of   
 
   operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult
market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:       

The amount and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so.

During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level
of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Asset and Wealth Management businesses.          

Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and the way customers allocate
capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business.          

Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash
redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio
securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our
operation of such funds.          

Heightened regulation of our industry will increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities that we would otherwise
pursue.          

The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to
uncertainty in that it requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations.

Our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets or
other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.      

16 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

The value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities and pension and other post-retirement plan assets,
may decrease.           Concerns over market volatility continue.     
  The capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the financial crisis. While markets stabilized in 2010, further
upheaval could produce downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers  underlying financial strength. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies
may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants
simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the
recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. For a discussion of risk, see  Risk management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.   
  If markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability
to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.        Reputational, Legal and Regulatory Risk Our
business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.     
  We are subject to reputational, legal and regulatory risk in the ordinary course of our business. These risks could include adverse publicity and damage
to our reputation arising from events in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our employees, alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves
or other large and well-known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of  know your customer , anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their

effectiveness, and litigation that may arise from our failure or perceived failure to comply with policies
and procedures. Any or all of these risks could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, damages, fines and
penalties or have other adverse effects on us. Customers of our subsidiaries may make claims pertaining to the performance of fiduciary responsibilities, which may result in material financial liability and materially impair our reputation, if not
resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general, and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on us. See  Legal
proceedings  in Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.        We are subject to extensive government
regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions.        We operate in a highly regulated
environment, and are subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the Obama Administration, Congress and
regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse
effects on the financial services industry. The regulatory perspective, particularly that of the Federal Reserve Board, on regulatory capital requirements may affect our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock
unless we can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of our regulators, that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a severely stressed market environment. In addition, the implementation of certain of the
regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies,
civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be
no assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and   

BNY Mellon 17

Table of Contents  

interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities
may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See
 Supervision and Regulation  in this Form 10-K. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions
may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony
of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.
       We may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market
conditions   ;    impairment of our instruments could harm our earnings.        We maintain an investment securities
portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes non-agency U.S. and non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and credit cards, the values of which are subject to
market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment. For information
regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the  Risk management Market risk  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual
Report.        Recent legislative actions may have an adverse effect on the Company s operations.     
  In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This new law broadly affects the financial services industry, particularly those
entities   
 
   considered to be  systemically important , such as bank holding companies with assets of over $50
billion, including BNY Mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous
other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector.      U.S. regulatory agencies   banking,
securities and commodities   have begun to publish notices of proposed regulations required by Dodd-Frank during the past several months, and new bodies created by Dodd-Frank (including the FSOC and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection)
are commencing operations. The related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may
cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business practices and plans, including those relating to cross-selling our products and services. These changes could also expose us to
additional costs (including increased legal and compliance costs) and require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes.        Interest Rate Environment Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.        Our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. Our net interest revenue is the
difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits
and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold.      The global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts
in interest rates. During fiscal 2010, the Federal Open Market Committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. The low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. It has
also resulted in our voluntarily waiving fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees in order to prevent our clients  yields on such funds from becoming negative. Changes in interest

18 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. A rising
interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage our
interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Further volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following additional effects:   

changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under  Asset/liability
management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report;          

an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in
interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;          

a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates;      

increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; and      

decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.      
  A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the  Risk management  section in the MD A  
Results of Operations in the Annual Report.        Deposit insurance premiums may continue to increase.     
  During 2009 and 2010, due to a higher level of bank failures, the FDIC increased recurring deposit insurance premiums, imposed a special assessment on
insured financial institutions, and required insured financial institutions to prepay three years of deposit premiums. Due to the continuing volume of bank failures, it is possible that a continued high level of funding will be required from insured
financial institutions, such as BNY Mellon.   
 
     Competition We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could
negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.        Many businesses in which we operate are intensely
competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and
asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and
investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and
individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services.      Furthermore, pricing pressures, as a
result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively
affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.      Recently enacted and proposed legislation and regulation may impact our ability
to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including legislation relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. These or other similar proposals, which may
not apply to all of our competitors, could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. A decline in our competitive position could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.   
    Dependence on fee-based business We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues
could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.        Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking

BNY Mellon 19

Table of Contents  

institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products
and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust,
depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.      Fees for many of our
products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing,
global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.   
  Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the
increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets
that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity
would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.      Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a
decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.
       Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.
       The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign
exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when

there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue
is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.      Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of
increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border
transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.   
  The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange
business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue.        Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is
dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform.        We provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and
administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and
information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our
fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure may result in contingent
liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.      Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which
existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients

20 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

outsource functions, such as their internal accounts payable activities, would also adversely affect our
results of operations.        Strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks.     
  From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each
of these poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive
benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.        The soundness of
financial institutions and other counterparties could adversely affect us.        Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions
could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many
different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients.
As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us
or by other institutions in the future. Many transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is
liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.   
    Any material reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.     
  Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our
long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not

entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.
     In addition, rating agencies employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time
rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us.
In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit
reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.   
  The outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions
of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.        Capital Adequacy We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail
to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.        Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other
regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about
components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed under  Supervision and Regulation   Capital Requirements  in this Form 10-K, the capital requirements applicable to us as a bank holding company as well as to our subsidiary
banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with Basel III and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. If our company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other
regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. In light of recent market events, Dodd-Frank and Basel III, BNY Mellon and

BNY Mellon 21

Table of Contents  

our subsidiary banks will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. Failure
by BNY Mellon or one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as  well-capitalized  and  well managed , if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a FHC and could affect the confidence
of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Form 10-K and the  Liquidity and dividends  and  Capital   Capital adequacy  sections in the MD A
  Results of Operations section and the  Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  section in the MD A section in the Annual Report.        Access to Capital Markets If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.        Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as
significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt
purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to
raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on)
negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If
we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our
assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.

Monetary and Other Governmental Policies Our business is influenced by monetary and other
governmental policies.        The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board,
have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. Due to current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and
increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our
profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates
necessarily results in additional costs. Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have
upon our financial condition or operations. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Form 10-K.        Operational Risk We are
exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.        We are
exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from
errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company, business interruption due to system failures or other events, or other risk of loss
resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning,
including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our
computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively

22 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that
could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. For a discussion of risk see  Risk management  in the MD A   Results of Operations
section in the Annual Report.        Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.     
  Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any
system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and
procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over
financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial
reports.        Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.     
  We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could
result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure,
interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any
failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial
liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion of risk, see  Risk

management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.   
    Technology We depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may
be adversely affected.        We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of
data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies.
Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.
     Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate
ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new
technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.      Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. We cannot provide any assurance that our
technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in
profitability.      Furthermore, if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement or misappropriation of its proprietary rights, obtained
through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations,
pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.   

BNY Mellon 23

Table of Contents  

Global Operations We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that
are inherent in operating globally.        In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject
to risks of loss from the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism and various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central
banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. Further, our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout
the world, including emerging markets. Various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital
and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. The possible effects of any of these conditions may adversely affect our business and increase volatility in
global financial markets generally.        Acts of Terrorism Acts of terrorism and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our
business.        Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in
place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global
conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad,
or in financial market settlement functions. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of
hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict.

New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.
       From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There
are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant
time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.   
    We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.        Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and
regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of large financial institutions. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. Our ability to attract and
retain key executives and/or other key employees may be hindered as a result of executive compensation limits and requirements set forth in regulations that may be issued under recently proposed and enacted legislation.   
    Tax Laws and Regulations Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our
net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.        In the course of our business, we
receive inquiries from both U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters discussed in Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. If we are not successful in defending
these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings.
Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or
litigation or to what extent it will   

24 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

negatively affect us or our business. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of
existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.        Accounting Principles Changes in accounting standards
could have a material impact on our financial statements.        From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the
International Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements such as the potential adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. See  Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section in
the Annual Report. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an
economic impact on our business.        Credit Reserves We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses,
including loan reserves, are inadequate.        We have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the financial, airline and automotive
industries, monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in
lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan
loss reserves against our loan portfolio. In addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will
not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings.

Holding Company We are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our
subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.     
  We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries   The Bank of New York
Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.   and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to
meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the
extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates.      For example, as a result of charges related to the restructuring of our securities portfolio in the third quarter of 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. currently require regulatory
consent prior to paying a dividend to us.      Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking
subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital
stock. See  Supervision and Regulation   Dividend Restrictions  in this Form 10-K, the  Liquidity and Dividends  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section and Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report.      Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our
debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their
depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims.
Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of   

BNY Mellon 25

Table of Contents  

our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of
those debt securities.        Limits on common stock dividends.        Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash
dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividend would require consultation with the Federal Reserve Board. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend
in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.        Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our
stockholders.        Provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult
for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue additional series of
preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best
interest of our stockholders.         ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    
  None.   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES       We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs. At a number of the locations described below, we are not currently occupying all of the space under our
control. Where commercially reasonable and to the extent it is not needed for future expansion, we have leased or subleased, or seek to lease or sublease, this excess space. The following is a description of our principal properties, as of
Dec. 31, 2010:   
 
    New York City properties       We own a 49-story office building located at One Wall Street that serves as our corporate headquarters. We also own our 23-story operations center building located at 101 Barclay Street, and lease the
land on which that building sits under a ground lease expiring in 2080. In addition, we lease approximately 372,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 200 Park Avenue and approximately 318,000 square feet of space in an
office building located at 2 Hanson Place in Brooklyn.      The New York City properties are utilized by all of our businesses.   
   Pittsburgh properties       We lease under a
long-term, triple net lease the entire 54-story office building known as BNY Mellon Center located at 500 Grant Street. In addition, we own a 42-story office building located at 525 William Penn Place and a 14-story office building located at
500 Ross Street.      The Pittsburgh properties are utilized by all of our businesses, other than the Clearing Services business.   
   Boston properties       We lease
approximately 373,000 square feet of space in a Boston office building located at One Boston Place, 201 Washington Street. We also lease under a triple net lease the entire 3-story office building located at 135 Santilli Highway in Everett,
Massachusetts. Additionally, we lease approximately 304,000 square feet at 4400 Computer Drive in Westborough, Massachusetts.      The Boston
properties are utilized by all of our businesses other than the Issuer Services and Clearing Services businesses.       New Jersey properties
      We lease approximately 485,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 95 Christopher Columbus Drive, Jersey City, New
Jersey and approximately 260,000 square feet of space in an office building located at Newport Office Center VII, 480 Washington Boulevard, Jersey City, New Jersey.      The New Jersey properties are primarily utilized by our Issuer Services and Clearing Services businesses.

26 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

United Kingdom properties       We have a number of leased office locations in London (including approximately 234,000 square feet of space at BNY Mellon Centre at 160-162 Queen Victoria Street and approximately 152,000 square feet of
space at The Tower at One Canada Square at Canary Wharf), as well as other leased office locations throughout the United Kingdom, including locations in Manchester, Poole, Leeds, Brentwood, Liverpool, Swindon and Edinburgh.   
  The UK properties are utilized by all of our businesses.       India properties       We lease approximately 302,000 square feet in Pune, India and
approximately 300,000 square feet in Chennai, India.      The India properties are utilized by all of our businesses.   
   Other properties       We also lease (and in
a few instances own) office space and other facilities at numerous other locations both within and outside of the U.S., including properties located in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Florida, Delaware, Texas, California,
Illinois, Georgia, Washington, Colorado, the mid-south region of the U.S.; Brussels, Belgium; Navan, Wexford, Dublin and Cork in Ireland; Senningerberg-Niederanven and Luxembourg City in Luxembourg; Frankfurt, Germany; Singapore; Hong Kong and
Shanghai in China, and Tokyo, Japan.   
 
      ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    
  The information required by this Item is set forth in the  Legal proceedings  section in Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.   

BNY Mellon 27

Table of Contents  

    PART II    

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK.
BNY Capital IV 6.875% Preferred Trust Securities Series E (symbol BKPrE), BNY Capital V 5.95% Preferred Trust Securities Series F (symbol BKPrF) and Mellon Capital IV 6.244% Preferred Trust Securities (symbol BK/P) are also listed on the New York
Stock Exchange. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock and our common stock dividend for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2009 and 2010 is set forth in the  Selected Quarterly Data 
section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. As of Dec. 31, 2010, there were 26,125 holders of record of our common stock.      For additional information about dividends and a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries and our payment of dividends to shareholders, see
the  Liquidity and Dividends  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and  Supervision and Regulation  
Dividend Restrictions  in this Form 10-K, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      Additional information about our common
stock, including information about share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2010 and existing Board of Directors authorization with respect to purchases by us of our common stock, and other equity securities is provided in the  Capital
  Stock repurchase programs  section of the MD A Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by
reference.         ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA       The information required by this Item is set forth in  Financial Summary ,  Summary of financial results  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and
Note 1, Note 2, Note 3 and Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       The information required by this Item is set forth in the MD A and Note 3, Note 16 and Note 21 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.        
 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK       The information required by this Item is set forth in
 Off-balance sheet arrangements ,  Risk management ,  Trading activities and risk management  and  Asset/liability management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Note 1
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Derivative financial instruments , Note 23, Note 25, and Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by
reference.         ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA    
  Reference is made to Item 15 on page 33 hereof for a detailed listing of the items under Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules,
and Exhibits, which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       None.         ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES        Disclosure Controls
and Procedures       Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of
the Disclosure Committee, has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by us in our SEC reports is timely recorded, processed, summarized and reported and that information required to be disclosed by BNY Mellon is accumulated and communicated to BNY Mellon s management to allow timely decisions regarding
the required disclosure. In addition, our ethics hotline can also be   

28 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

used by employees and others for the anonymous communication of concerns about financial controls or
reporting matters. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly,
even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.      As of the end
of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure
controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.   
   Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting       In the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. There have not been any changes in our internal controls over
financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter of 2010 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
   Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
  See  Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
on pages 86 and 87 of the Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

BNY Mellon 29

Table of Contents  

    PART III    

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
      The information required by this Item is included below and in the Proxy in the following portions of the  Election of
Directors  section:  Information About the Nominees ,  Director Qualifications ,  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Audit Committee, and   Committees and Committee Charters ,  
Nomination Procedures ,  Nominees for Election as Directors ,  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and  Director Compensation , which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
   CODE OF ETHICS       We have adopted a code
of ethics for our employees which we refer to as our Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries, including our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer) and Controller (principal accounting officer), as well as to the directors of BNY Mellon. The Code of Conduct is posted on our website at www.bnymellon.com/ ethics/codeofconduct.pdf. We also have a code of ethics for
our directors, which we refer to as our Directors  Code of Conduct. The Directors  Code of Conduct applies to all directors of BNY Mellon. The Directors  Code of Conduct is posted on our website at  www.
bnymellon.com/governance/directorscodeof conduct.pdf. Both the Code of Conduct and the Directors  Code of Conduct are available in print, without charge, to any shareholder who requests a copy. Requests should be sent to The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation, Office of the Secretary, One Wall Street, NY, NY 10286. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to or waiver of the Code of Conduct relating to executive officers (including the officers specified above) and will
disclose any amendments to or waivers of the Directors  Code of Conduct relating to our directors.        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT        The name and age of, and positions and offices held by, each executive officer of BNY Mellon as of February 28, 2011,
together with the offices held by each such person during the last five years, are listed below and on the following two pages.

All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing      authority. No executive
officer has a family relationship to any other executive officer or director.       

30 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Mr. Kelly also serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Kelly served as
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since February 2006. From prior to 2005 to January 2006, Mr. Kelly was Chief Financial Officer of Wachovia Corporation, a financial services
company, and its predecessor, First Union Corporation.         

(2)  
  Mr. Hassell also serves as the President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hassell served as President of The Bank
of New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since at least 2005.         

(3)  
  Mr. Arledge also serves as Chief Executive Officer of BNY Mellon Asset Management and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From 2008
to November 2010, Mr. Arledge served as Chief Investment Officer for fixed income portfolios at BlackRock, Inc., an investment management firm. From prior to 2005 to 2008, Mr. Arledge served as the global head of the fixed income division
of the corporate and investment banking group in Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company.         

(4)  
  Mr. Gibbons also serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Mr. Gibbons served as Chief Risk
Officer of BNY Mellon from July 1, 2007 to July 1, 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Gibbons served as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. from September 2006 until June 2007.
Prior to the merger, he also served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since April 2005 and as Chief Financial Officer from September 2006 until June 2007. Mr. Gibbons also served as Chief Risk Officer of The Bank of New
York Company from at least 2005 to 2006.         

(5)  
  Mr. Keaney also serves as Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Keaney served as Senior Executive Vice
President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2005 to May 2006.

(6)  
  Mr. Palermo also serves as Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Palermo served as Vice Chairman of
Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2005.         

(7)  
  Ms. Peetz also serves as Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peetz served as Senior Executive Vice
President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. She served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2005 to May 2006.         

(8)  
  Mr. Rogan also serves as Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Rogan served as Senior Executive Vice
President of The Bank of New York since November 2005.         

(9)  
  Mr. Brueckner has served as Chairman of Pershing LLC since October 1, 2010. He also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon
and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Brueckner served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC since at least 2005 to
October 1, 2010.         

(10)  
  Mr. Certosimo also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. He served as an Executive Vice President of The
Bank of New York Mellon beginning in July of 2007 and ending in May 2009. Prior to July 2007, Mr. Certosimo served as head of Broker Dealer Services and Alternative Investment Services and Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since
at least 2005.         

(11)  
  Ms. Peters also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peters served as an
Executive Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2005.         

(12)  
  Mr. Shea has served as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC since October 1, 2010 and also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New
York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Mr. Shea served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Pershing LLC from at least 2005 to October 1, 2010.

BNY Mellon 31

Table of Contents  

(13)  
  Ms. Sherburne also serves as Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From 2009 to May 2010,
Ms. Sherburne conducted a private legal practice. Ms. Sherburne served as General Counsel for Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company, from 2008 to 2009 and as General Counsel for the Global Consumer Group of Citigroup Inc., a
financial services company, from at least 2005 to 2008.         

(14)  
  Mr. Woetzel also serves as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger,
Mr. Woetzel served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York from at least 2005 to May 2006.     

(15)  
  Mr. Park has also served as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. since August 2009, and Controller of The Bank of New York
Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. since May 2008. Mr. Park served as Managing Director of The Bank of New York Mellon beginning with our merger and ending in May 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Park served as Managing Director of The Bank of New
York since at least 2005.        The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, N.A. and Pershing LLC, as referenced in the foregoing
footnotes, are subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.         ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
      The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following portions of the  Election of Directors  section:
 Compensation and Risk ,  Director Compensation ,  Executive Compensation ,  Compensation Discussion and Analysis ,  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Human Resources and Compensation
Committee   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation , and the  Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee , which are incorporated herein by reference. The information incorporated herein by
reference to the  Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee  is deemed furnished hereunder.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following portions of the
 Election of Directors  section:  Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Holders of 5% or More of Outstanding Stock ,  Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Directors and Executive Officers , and  Executive Compensation
  Equity Compensation Plans Table , which are incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy
in the following portions of the  Election of Directors  section:  Corporate Governance Matters   Director Independence and   Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy  and  Board Meetings and
Board Committee Information   Audit Committee and   Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and   Human Resources and Compensation Committee , which are incorporated herein by reference.   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following portion of the  Election of Directors  section:  Audit Fees, Audit Related Fees, Tax Fees and All Other
Fees , which is incorporated herein by reference.   

32 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV    

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES    

(a)  
     
  The financial statements, schedules and exhibits required for this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference as indicated in the following index. Page numbers refer
to pages of the Annual Report for items (1) Financial Statements and (c) Other Financial Data.  

(1)  
      
   Financial Statements   

Page No.   

Consolidated Income Statement   

88 and 89  

Consolidated Balance Sheet   

90  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   

91  

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   

92 through 94  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

95 through 162  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

163  

(2)  
      
   Exhibits   

See (b) below.   

(b)  
     
  The exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits on pages 35 through 52 hereof are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this
Item.  

(c)  
     
   Other Financial Data   

Page No.   

Selected Quarterly Data  

79  

BNY Mellon 33

Table of Contents  

       SIGNATURES     
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, BNY Mellon has duly caused this Annual Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

By:  
     
    /s/ Robert P. Kelly    

Robert P. Kelly    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

DATED: February 28, 2011    
   Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of BNY Mellon and in the capacities and on the date indicated.   

Signature   

Capacities    

By:  
     
    /s/ Robert P. Kelly   

Director and Principal Executive Officer   

Robert P. Kelly   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   

Principal Financial Officer   

Thomas P. Gibbons   

Chief Financial Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ John A. Park   

Principal Accounting Officer   

John A. Park   

Controller   

Ruth E. Bruch; Nicholas M. Donofrio;  

Directors   
 
  Gerald L. Hassell; Edmund F. Kelly;  

Richard J. Kogan; Michael J. Kowalski;  

John A. Luke, Jr.; Robert Mehrabian;  

Mark A. Nordenberg; Catherine A. Rein;  

William C. Richardson; Samuel C. Scott III;  

John P. Surma; and Wesley W. von Schack  

By:  
     
    /s/ Arlie R. Nogay   

DATED: February 28, 2011   

Arlie R. Nogay   

Attorney-in-fact   

34 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

      INDEX TO EXHIBITS    
      Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
SEC, BNY Mellon has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or
parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are
subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in BNY Mellon s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different
from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe BNY Mellon s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.   

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

2.1   
      
  Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, as amended and restated as of February 23, 2007, and as further amended and restated as of March 30,
2007, between The Bank of New York Company, Inc., Mellon Financial Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ).  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710 and File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on July 2, 2007, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

2.2   
      
  Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2010, by and between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on February 3, 2010, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

3.1   
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710 and File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on July 2, 2007, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

3.2           
      
  Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as amended and restated on July 10, 2007 and subsequently amended on April 14, 2009, August 11, 2009,
February 9, 2010, July 2, 2010 and October 12, 2010.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

4.1   
      
  None of the instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company represent long-term debt in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Company. The Company
hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request, a copy of any such instrument.  
      
  N/A   

10.1*   
      
  Trust Agreement dated November 16, 1993 ( Trust Agreement ) related to certain executive compensation plans and agreements.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10(m) to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-06152) for the year ended December 31, 1993, and incorporated
herein by reference.        

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 35

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         36 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 37

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         38 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 39

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         40 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 41

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         42 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 43

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

10.68**   
      
  Mellon Financial Corporation ShareSuccess Plan, as amended, effective May 21, 2002.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-07410) for the quarter ended June 30, 2002, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.69*   
      
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan, Type I Stock Option Agreement.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-07410) for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.70*   
      
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock Agreement   Corporate Performance Goals.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.71*   
      
  Form of Mellon Financial Corporation, Deferred Share Award Agreement (Performance Accelerated Restricted Stock)   Corporate Performance Goals.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.7 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.72*   
      
  Form of Type I Stock Option Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.8 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated January 18, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.73*   
      
  Form of Option Agreement for Directors of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.35 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31, 2004, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.74*   
      
  Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement of Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.75*   
      
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Item 1.01(1) to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated February 15, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.76*   
      
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Item 1.01(1) to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) dated December 19, 2005, and incorporated herein by
reference.        

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     

**  
  Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which BNY Mellon s Common Stock may be issued to employees of BNY Mellon. No executive officers or directors
of BNY Mellon are permitted to participate in this plan.     
         44 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 45

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         46 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

10.94*  
      
  Description regarding team equity incentive awards, replacement equity awards and special stock option award to executives named therein.  
      
  Previously filed as Item 5.02 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) dated July 13, 2007, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.95  
      
  Lease agreement dated July 16, 2004 between Suntrust Equity Funding, LLC and Tennessee Processing Center LLC.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10(ooo) to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-06152) for the year ended December 31, 2005, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.96  
      
  Master Agreement dated July 16, 2004 between The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Tennessee Processing Center LLC, Suntrust Equity Funding, LLC.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10(ppp) to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-06152) for the year ended December 31, 2005, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.97  
      
  Purchase   Assumption Agreement, dated as of April 7, 2006 by and between The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase   Co.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on April 13, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.98  
      
  Amended and Restated Purchase   Assumption Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2006, by and between The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase   Co.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-06152) for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.99  
      
  Lease dated as of December 31, 2004, between 500 Grant Street Associates Limited Partnership and Mellon Bank, N.A. with respect to One Mellon Center.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31, 2004, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.100  
      
  Non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. Attorney s Offices for the Eastern and Southern Districts of New York.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-06152) as filed with the Commission on November 8, 2005,
and incorporated herein by reference.        

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 47

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         48 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 49

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         50 BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 51

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

13.1  
      
  All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference. The remaining portions are furnished for the
information of the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not  filed  as part of this filing.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

21.1  
      
  Primary subsidiaries of the Company.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

23.1  
      
  Consent of KPMG LLP.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31.1  
      
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

32.1  
      
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

32.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.INS  
      
  XBRL Instance Document.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.PRE  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Furnished herewith.    
         52 BNY Mellon   

<EX-3.2>
 2
 dex32.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS

Amended and Restated By-Laws 

Exhibit 3.2       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION      AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS   
  (As Amended April 14, 2009, August 11, 2009, February 9, 2010, July 2, 2010 and   
  October 12, 2010)      ARTICLE ONE       Meetings of Stockholders    
  Section 1. ANNUAL MEETINGS. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of Directors and the
transaction of all other business that may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date as the Board of Directors shall determine and specify in the notice of such meeting. The annual meeting shall be held at such time and place, and
upon such notice, as the Board of Directors shall determine, in the city of New York, New York, or such other city as the Board of Directors shall determine, except that, at least once every three years, the meeting shall be held in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.      Section 2. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called for any purpose by the
Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman, and any such special meeting shall be held at the place, day and time and upon such notice as the Board of Directors or such person shall determine.   
  Section 3. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of the
meeting shall be given in any manner permitted by law which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the
notice of any meeting shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder s address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.      Section 4. ORGANIZATION. Only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section 11(a) of this Article One with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders and Section 11(b) of this Article One with respect to a special meeting of stockholders. The officer presiding at the meeting shall have the power and the
duty to determine whether any business proposed to be brought before a meeting was proposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in these By-Laws and, if any business is not in compliance with such procedures, to declare that such defective
proposal shall be disregarded. The officer presiding at the meeting shall have authority on his or her own motion to adjourn the meeting from time to time without the approval of the stockholders who are present in person or represented by proxy and
entitled to   

vote, whether or not constituting a quorum, and without notice other than announcement at the meeting. The Board of Directors may, to the extent not prohibited by law, adopt such rules and
regulations for the conduct of the meetings of stockholders as it deems appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, the officer presiding at the meeting of stockholders shall have
the right and authority to prescribe rules, regulations and procedures and to do all acts as, in the judgment of such officer, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting.   
  Section 5. VOTING. Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation (including any certificate of designations with
respect to any series of preferred stock), each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder that has voting power on the matter in question. Stockholders
may vote at any meeting in person or may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy in any manner permitted by law. No proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a
longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not
irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by delivering to the Secretary of the Corporation a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot.
     Section 6. RECORD DATES.      (a)  Record Date for Meetings of Stockholders . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment
thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than
10 days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be the day immediately preceding the day
on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, the day immediately preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any
adjournment of the meeting;  provided ,  however , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.      (b)  Record Date for Consents of Stockholders in Lieu of Meetings . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to any corporate action in writing without a
meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 10 days after the
date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If no record date has   
         2   

been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of
Directors is required by law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in the State of Delaware, its
principal place of business or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which such proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation s registered office shall be by hand or by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to
corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.      (c)  Record Date for Dividends, Distributions and Other Rights in Respect of Stock . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other
distribution or allotment of any rights, or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date,
which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than 60 days prior to such action. If no record date has been fixed by the
Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.      Section 7. QUORUM; STOCKHOLDER ACTION. The presence, in person or by proxy, of stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes that all stockholders are entitled to cast shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of stockholders. Without limiting the power and authority of the officer presiding at a meeting, pursuant to Section 4 of this Article One, to adjourn such meeting without a
vote of stockholders, in the absence of a quorum of the holders of all outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on a matter, the holders of such shares so present or represented may, by majority vote, adjourn such meeting from time to time until
a quorum shall be so present or represented, without notice other than announcement at the meeting. When a quorum is once present, it shall not be broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholder from the meeting. Shares of its own capital
stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly by the Corporation,
shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes;  provided ,  however , that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a
fiduciary capacity. Unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, any action of the stockholders to be taken at a meeting of stockholders (other than election of Directors to the extent set forth in
  
         3   

Section 8 of this Article One) may be taken by a majority of the votes cast with respect to the matter at any duly convened stockholders  meeting.   
  Section 8. REQUIRED VOTE FOR DIRECTORS. Except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of
the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director s election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the record date of such meeting as initially announced, the number of
nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected at such meeting (a  Contested Election ), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 8 of this Article One of these
By-Laws, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast  for  a director s election exceeds the number of votes cast  against  that director s election (with  abstentions  not counted as a
vote cast either  for  or  against  that director s election).      Section 9. LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS.
The Secretary or other officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in
alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to examination by any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of
at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either (at the election of the Corporation) (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is included in the notice of the meeting or
(ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. The list of stockholders shall also be open to examination by any stockholder at the meeting (and for the duration thereof) as required by applicable
law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the identity of stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders required by this Section 9, to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders or to execute written consents to
corporate action without a meeting shall be conclusively determined by reference to the stock ledger.      Section 10.
INSPECTOR OF ELECTIONS. The Corporation may, and shall if required by law, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment
thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting
of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of
inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting
power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a
  
         4   

reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of
the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors  count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies
and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
     Section 11. NOTICE OF BUSINESS TO BE PRESENTED AT STOCKHOLDER MEETINGS.   
  (a)  Annual Meetings of Stockholders . The proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual
meeting of stockholders may be made (x) pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting, (y) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (z) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the
time of giving of notice provided for in this Section 11, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by
a stockholder pursuant to clause (z) of the preceding sentence, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action and the stockholder must have given timely notice in compliance with the following requirements in writing to the
Secretary of the Corporation:      (i) To be timely, a stockholder s notice given pursuant to this
Section 11 must be received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, addressed to the Secretary, not less than 90 calendar days or more than 120 calendar days before the anniversary date of the Corporation s proxy statement
released to stockholders in connection with the previous year s annual meeting. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the date of the annual meeting at which such business is to be presented has been changed by more than 30 calendar days
from the date of the most recent previous annual meeting, a stockholder s notice shall be considered timely if so received by the Corporation (A) on or before the later of (1) 120 calendar days before the date of the annual meeting at
which such business is to be presented or (2) 30 calendar days following the first public announcement by the Corporation of the date of such annual meeting and (B) not later than 15 calendar days prior to the scheduled mailing date of the
Corporation s proxy materials for such annual meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder s notice as described above.   
  (ii) A stockholder s notice given pursuant to this Section 11 shall set forth (A) the name and address of
the stockholder who intends to make the proposal and the classes and numbers of shares of the Corporation s   
         5   

stock beneficially owned by such stockholder, (B) a representation that the stockholder is and will at the time of the annual meeting be a holder of record of stock of the Corporation
entitled to vote at such meeting on the proposal(s) specified in the notice and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present such proposal(s), (C) a description of the business the stockholder intends to bring before the
meeting, including the text of any proposal or proposals to be presented for action by the stockholders, (D) the name and address of any beneficial owner(s) of the Corporation s stock on whose behalf such business is to be presented and
the class and number of shares beneficially owned by each such beneficial owner and (E) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder or any such beneficial owner.
     (b)  Special Meetings of Stockholders . The matters to be considered and brought before any special meeting of
stockholders shall be limited to only such matters as shall be brought properly before such meeting pursuant to the Corporation s notice of such special meeting.      (c)  General .      (i) For purposes of this Section,
(A)  public announcement  shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and (B)  beneficial ownership  shall be determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act
or any successor rule.      (ii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, a stockholder
shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section   
  (iii) Nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to affect any rights of a stockholder to request inclusion of a
proposal in the Corporation s proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, or any successor rule, or to present for action at an annual meeting any proposal so included.   
  ARTICLE TWO   
   Directors    
         6   

Section 1. BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be
managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors. Except as expressly limited by law, all corporate powers of the Corporation shall be vested in and may be exercised by the Board of Directors.   
  Section 2. NUMBER. The Board of Directors shall consist of such number of Directors as shall be fixed from time to time by a
majority vote of the Board of Directors.      Section 3. ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE. Each Director hereafter elected shall hold
office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and has qualified, or until his or her death or until he or she shall resign or shall have been removed or disqualified.   
  Section 4. NOMINATION. Nominations for the election of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or any
officer of the Corporation to whom the Board of Directors or such committee shall have delegated such authority. Upon proper notice given to the Corporation, nominations may also be made by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of
Directors. Written notice of a stockholder s intent to make a nomination or nominations for Director must be given to the Corporation either by United States mail or personal delivery to the Secretary of the Corporation (i) in the case of
an annual meeting, not less than 90 calendar days or more than 120 calendar days before the anniversary date of the Corporation s proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the previous year s annual meeting and
(ii) in the case of a special meeting at which directors are to be elected, not later than the close of business on the tenth calendar day following the earlier of the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed and the day on
which public announcement of the date of the meeting was made. Notwithstanding clause (i) of the preceding sentence, if the date of the annual meeting at which Directors are to be elected has been changed by more than 30 calendar days from the
date of the most recent previous annual meeting, a stockholder s notice of intent to make a nomination or nominations for Director shall be considered timely if so received by the Corporation (A) on or before the later of (x) 120
calendar days before the date of the annual meeting at which such business is to be presented or (y) 30 calendar days following the first public announcement by the Corporation of the date of such annual meeting and (B) not later than 15
calendar days prior to the scheduled mailing date of the Corporation s proxy materials for such annual meeting. The notice must include: (1) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and a representation
that the stockholder is and will at the time of the annual meeting be a holder of record of Common Stock entitled to vote at such annual meeting and that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to make the
nomination or nominations set forth in the notice, (2) the name and address of the person or persons to be nominated for election as Director and such other information regarding the proposed nominee or nominees as would be required to be
included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, (3) a description of all arrangements or undertakings between the stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or
persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or   
         7   

nominations are to be made by the stockholder and (4) a consent signed by each of the proposed nominees agreeing to serve as a Director if so elected. The Board of Directors will be under no
obligation to recommend a proposed nominee, even though the notice as set forth above has been given.      Section 5.
VACANCIES. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification or removal from office or other cause, as well as any vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of Directors which occurs between annual
meetings of the stockholders at which Directors are elected, shall be filled only by a majority vote of the remaining Directors then in office, whether or not a quorum, except that those vacancies resulting from removal from office by a vote of the
stockholders may be filled by a vote of the stockholders at the same meeting at which such removal occurs. The Directors chosen to fill vacancies shall hold office for a term expiring at the end of the next annual meeting of stockholders. No
decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.   
  Section 6. REMOVAL. Any Director may be removed from office at any time without assigning any cause by the holders of a majority of
the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.      Section 7. EXCEPTIONS FOR PREFERENCE DIRECTORS. The
provisions of Sections 4 through 6 of this Article Two shall not apply to any Director of the Corporation who may be elected under specified circumstances by holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to
dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation.      Section 8. ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING. A meeting of the Board of Directors
for the purpose of organizing the new Board, appointing the officers of the Corporation for the ensuing year and transacting other business shall be held without notice immediately following the annual election of Directors or as soon thereafter as
is practicable at such time and place as the Secretary may designate.      Section 9. REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of
the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as the Board of Directors shall determine in accordance with the Corporate Governance Guidelines or which are otherwise furnished to the Directors at its Organization Meeting each year,
and if so determined or furnished, notice of such meetings need not be given.      Section 10. SPECIAL MEETINGS. The Chief
Executive Officer, the Chairman or the President may call a special meeting of the Board of Directors at any time. Any such officer or the Secretary shall call a special meeting of the Board upon the written request of any three members of the
Board. A special meeting shall be held at such time and place as may be designated by the person or persons calling the meeting. The person or persons calling the meeting shall cause such notice of the meeting and of its purpose to be given as
hereinafter provided in this Section 10, but, except as otherwise expressly provided by law or by these By-Laws, the purposes thereof need not be stated in such   
         8   

notice. Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of the special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each Director either (i) by mail or courier not
less than 48 hours before the date of the meeting or (ii) by telephone, telegram or facsimile or electronic transmission, not less than 24 hours before the time of the meeting or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such
meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances (provided that notice of any meeting need not be given to any director who shall either submit, before or after such meeting, a waiver of notice or attend the meeting without protesting,
at the beginning thereof, the lack of notice).      Section 11. QUORUM; BOARD ACTION. A majority of the Board of Directors
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting. Unless otherwise provided by law, by these By-Laws or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, any action of the Board may be taken upon the affirmative vote of
a majority of the Directors present at a duly convened meeting or upon the unanimous written consent of all Directors. In case at any meeting of the Board of Directors a quorum shall not be present, a majority of the members of the Board of
Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.      Section 12. PARTICIPATION
OTHER THAN BY ATTENDANCE. To the full extent permitted by law, any Director may participate in any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board of Directors of which he or she is a member by means of a
conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting are able to hear each other.      Section 13. ACTION BY DIRECTORS WITHOUT A MEETING. Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the
Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing (which writing may include by electronic mail), and the
writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be.   
  Section 14. COMPENSATION. Each Director who does not receive a salary from the Corporation or any affiliate thereof shall be
entitled to such compensation as the Board shall determine for his or her service upon the Board of Directors and any of its committees, for his or her attendance at meetings of the Board and any of its committees and for his or her expenses
incident thereto. Directors shall also be entitled to such compensation as the Board shall determine for services rendered to the Corporation in any capacity other than as Directors.   
  Section 15. RESIGNATION. Any Director may resign by submitting his or her resignation to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman,
the President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall become effective upon its submission or at any later time specified therein.   
         9   

ARTICLE THREE       Committees of the Board of Directors       Section 1. APPOINTMENT; POWERS.
The Board of Directors may appoint one or more standing or temporary committees consisting of two or more Directors. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not
disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. The Board of
Directors may invest such committees with such powers and authority, subject to such conditions, as it may see fit, but no such committee shall have the power or authority with respect to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or
recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing these By-Laws.   
  Section 2. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members an Executive Committee which, so far as
may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors during the intervals
between the meetings thereof. All acts done and powers conferred by the Executive Committee shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done by or conferred under authority of the Board of Directors.   
  Section 3. AUDIT COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the
Corporation, an Audit Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform
the functions specified in the Charter of the Audit Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Audit Committee.   
  Section 4. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATING COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom
shall be an officer of the Corporation, a Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall
have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of
Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee.      Section 5. HUMAN
RESOURCES AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, none of whom shall be an officer of the Corporation, a Human Resources and Compensation Committee, which, so
  
         10   

far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and
shall perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of
the Human Resources and Compensation Committee.      Section 6. RISK COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors shall appoint from
among its members, a Risk Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall
perform the functions specified in the Charter of the Risk Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Risk Committee.   
  Section 7. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE. The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, a Corporate
Social Responsibility Committee, which, so far as may be permitted by law and except as specifically limited by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1 of this Article Three, shall have all the powers and responsibilities and shall perform
the functions specified in the Charter of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, as approved by the Board of Directors, and in any supplemental statement that the Board of Directors may adopt with regards to the functions of the Corporate
Social Responsibility Committee.      Section 8. [Intentionally omitted.]   
  Section 9. TERM; VACANCIES. (a) All committee members appointed by the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board of Directors; and (b) the Board of Directors may fill any committee vacancy.      Section 10. ORGANIZATION. All
committees shall determine their own organization, procedures and times and places of meeting, unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors and except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws. In the absence of a provision by the Board of
Directors or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the entire authorized number of members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present
at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee, and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to
Article Two of these By-Laws.      ARTICLE FOUR       Officers    
         11   

Section 1. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief
Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation, shall report directly to the Board of Directors and shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation. The Chief
Executive Officer shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall have general executive powers concerning all the operations and business of
the Corporation and shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or as may be provided by law, and he or she may delegate to any other officer such executive
and other powers and duties as he or she deems advisable.      Section 2. CHAIRMAN. The Board of Directors shall appoint one
of its members to be Chairman. The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have and exercise such further powers as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of
Directors or as may be provided by law. In the event of the absence or temporary disability of the Chairman, the Lead Director shall preside at the applicable meetings of the stockholders and/or the Board of Directors during which such absence or
disability exists and, in the event of the absence or temporary disability of the Chairman and the Lead Director, any other officer of the Corporation or Director designated by the Board of Directors shall preside at the applicable meetings of the
stockholders and/or Board of Directors during which such absence or disability exists.      Section 3. PRESIDENT. The Board
of Directors shall appoint a President. The President shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law.
     Section 4. SENIOR OFFICERS. The Board of Directors may appoint, or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint, subject to
confirmation by the Board of Directors, one or more senior officers of the Corporation, any of whom may be designated as Vice Chairmen or as senior executive vice presidents or given any other descriptive titles, as the Board of Directors or the
Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall specify from time to time. Each senior officer shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors
or the Chief Executive Officer.      Section 5. SECRETARY; ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. The Board of Directors shall appoint a
Secretary. The Secretary shall act as secretary of all meetings of the stockholders, of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee, and he or she shall keep minutes of all such meetings. The Secretary shall give such notice of the
meetings as is required by law or these By-Laws. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the minute book, stock record and transfer books and all other general corporate records. The Secretary shall be the custodian of the corporate seal and shall
have the power to affix and attest the same, and he or she may delegate such power to one or more officers,   
         12   

employees or agents of the Corporation. The Secretary shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the
Chief Executive Officer or as may be provided by law. The Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint one or more Assistant Secretaries who shall assist the Secretary in the performance of his or her duties. At the direction of the
Secretary or in the event of his or her absence or disability, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of the Secretary. Each Assistant Secretary shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned
to, him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary.      Section 6. TREASURER; ASSISTANT
TREASURERS. The Board of Directors shall appoint a Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have and exercise such powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of
Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may appoint one or more Assistant Treasurers who shall assist the Treasurer in the performance of his or her duties. At the direction of the Treasurer or in the event of his or her absence or disability, an
Assistant Treasurer shall perform the duties of the Treasurer. Each Assistant Treasurer shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive
Officer or the Treasurer.      Section 7. CHIEF AUDITOR. Subject to any requirement of law or the rules of any exchange on
which shares of Common Stock of the Corporation are listed, the Board of Directors shall appoint a Chief Auditor who shall be the chief auditing officer of the Corporation. He or she shall report to the Audit Committee and shall continuously examine
the affairs of the Corporation under the general supervision and direction of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have and exercise such further powers and duties as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, him or her by the Audit Committee or the
Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may also appoint other officers who shall perform such auditing duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the Chief Auditor of the Corporation.   
  Section 8. OTHER OFFICERS. The Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate of either of them may appoint or hire
such additional officers of the Corporation, who may be designated as executive vice presidents, managing directors, senior vice presidents, first vice presidents, vice presidents, assistant vice presidents, officers, assistant officers, senior
associates, associates, or given any other descriptive titles, and may hire such additional employees, as it or he or she may deem necessary or desirable to transact the business of the Corporation, and may establish the conditions of employment of
any of the persons mentioned above and may fix their compensation and dismiss them. Such persons may have such descriptive titles as may be appropriate, and they shall, respectively, have and exercise such powers and duties as pertain to their
several offices or as may be conferred upon, or assigned to, them by the appropriate appointing authority and as are not inconsistent with any provisions of these By-Laws.   
         13   

Section 9. TENURE OF OFFICE. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and the
President shall each hold office for the year for which the Board of Directors was elected and until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor or until his or her earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. All other
officers and employees shall hold office at the pleasure of the appropriate appointing authority. The Board of Directors may remove any officer with or without cause at any time.   
  Section 10. COMPENSATION. The Board of Directors shall fix the compensation of those officers appointed pursuant to Sections 1, 2, 3
and 7 of this Article Four and of any other officers of the Corporation or any officers of any subsidiary of the Corporation that the Board of Directors shall deem appropriate, and it may award additional compensation to any officer or employee of
the Corporation or any officer of any subsidiary for any year or years based upon the performance of that person during any such period, the success of the operations of the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof during any such period or any other
reason that the Board of Directors shall deem appropriate. Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise direct, the Chief Executive Officer or his or her delegate shall fix the compensation of all other officers or employees of the Corporation or
any subsidiary thereof.      ARTICLE FIVE       Certain Governance Matters       Section 1. [Intentionally omitted.]
     Section 2. [Intentionally omitted.]      Section 3. [Intentionally omitted.]      Section 4. [Intentionally
omitted.]      Section 5. [Intentionally omitted.]      Section 6. CORPORATE NAME: During the period beginning July 1, 2007 and ending on July 1, 2012, the Board of Directors shall not recommend for adoption by the stockholders of the
Corporation, or otherwise approve or effect, any change to the name of the Corporation without the unanimous affirmative vote of the Board of Directors.      Section 7. AMENDMENTS. Prior to July 1, 2012, the provisions of Section 6 of this Article Five may be modified, amended or repealed, and any By-Law provision or other resolution
inconsistent with Section 6 may be adopted, or any such modification, amendment, repeal or inconsistent By-Law provisions or other resolutions recommended for adoption by the stockholders of the Corporation, only by the unanimous affirmative
vote of the Board of Directors. In the event of any inconsistency between any other provision of these By-Laws and any provision of this Article Five, the provisions of this Article Five shall control.   
         14   

ARTICLE SIX       Stock, Stock Certificates and Holders of Record       Section 1. STOCK
CERTIFICATES. Shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates or, to the extent provided in Sections 5 and 6 of this Article Six or as otherwise required by law, shall be uncertificated. Stock certificates shall be in such
form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe in accordance with law and the requirements of any exchange upon which such shares are listed. Such certificates shall be signed by the Chairman, President or Vice President,
countersigned by the Secretary, the Treasurer or any other officer so authorized by the Board of Directors and permitted by law and sealed with the seal of the Corporation, and such signatures and seal may be facsimile or otherwise as permitted by
law. In case any officer, registrar or transfer agent who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any stock certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, registrar or transfer agent, as the case may be, before the
certificate is issued, as a result of death, resignation or otherwise, the certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if the officer, registrar or transfer agent, as the case may be, had not ceased to be such at the date of
the certificate s issue.      Section 2. TRANSFER OF STOCK. Except as otherwise provided by law, transfers of shares of
stock of the Corporation shall be made only upon the books of the Corporation only by the registered holder thereof, or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary, or with a transfer
agent duly appointed, and upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed, if such shares are represented by a certificate, and payment of all taxes thereon.   
  Section 3. LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in
the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner s legal representative, to give the
Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or shares.   
  Section 4. HOLDERS OF RECORD. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat any person in whose name shares of stock of the Corporation
stand on its books as the holder and owner in fact thereof for all purposes.      Section 5. UNCERTIFICATED SECURITIES. All
or part of the shares of common stock of the Corporation may be uncertificated shares to the extent determined by the Board of Directors from time to time; however, in no event shall shares of common stock represented by a certificate be deemed
uncertificated until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation.   
         15   

Section 6. DETERMINATIONS AS TO ISSUANCE, TRANSFER AND REGISTRATION. The Board of
Directors (or any officer or other person as the Board of Directors may designate) from time to time may make such rules, policies and procedures as it, he or she may deem appropriate concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of
stock of the Corporation, whether certificated or uncertificated.      ARTICLE SEVEN   
   Signing Authority and Corporate Transactions       Section 1. SIGNING AUTHORITY. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the President, any senior officer or any Vice President of the Corporation shall have full power and authority, in the name
and on behalf of the Corporation, under seal of the Corporation or otherwise, to execute, acknowledge and deliver any and all agreements, instruments or other documents relating to property or rights of all kinds held or owned by the Corporation or
to the operation of the Corporation, all as may be incidental to the operation of the Corporation and subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may impose. Any such agreement, instrument or document may
also be executed, acknowledged and delivered in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, under seal of the Corporation or otherwise, by such other officers, employees or agents of the Corporation as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive
Officer or the delegate of either of them may from time to time authorize. In each such case, the authority so conferred shall be subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the delegate may impose. Any
officer, employee or agent authorized hereunder to execute, acknowledge and deliver any such agreement, instrument or document is also authorized to cause the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary or any other authorized person to affix the seal of the
Corporation thereto and to attest it.      Section 2. VOTING AND ACTING WITH RESPECT TO STOCK AND OTHER SECURITIES OWNED BY
THE CORPORATION. The Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, the President, any senior officer or any Vice President shall have the power and authority to vote and act with respect to all stock and other securities in any other corporation owned by
this Corporation, subject to such limitations as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may impose. Such power and authority may be conferred upon any other officer, employee or agent by the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the
delegate of either of them, and such authority may be general or may be limited to specific instances. Any person so authorized shall have the power to appoint an attorney or attorneys, with general power of substitution, as proxies for the
Corporation with full power to vote and act on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such stock and other securities.   
  ARTICLE EIGHT   
   General Provisions    
         16   

Section 1. FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the
Board of Directors.      Section 2. RECORDS. The Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws and the proceedings of all meetings of
the stockholders, the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, and any other committee of the Board of Directors shall be recorded in appropriate minute books provided for this purpose or in any other information storage device (whether in paper
or electronic form), provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable period of time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.
The minutes of each meeting shall be signed by the Secretary or other person acting as secretary of the meeting.   
  Section 3. SEAL. The Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe the form of a suitable corporate seal.   
  Section 4. NUMBER. Any reference in these By-Laws to the singular includes the plural and vice versa unless the context indicates
otherwise.      ARTICLE NINE       By-Laws       Section 1. AMENDMENTS. Except as otherwise provided in
Article Five of these By-Laws or in Article SIXTH, Section (b) of the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws may be amended, altered and repealed, and new By-Laws may be adopted, either by action of the stockholders or (except as otherwise
provided by law or these By-Laws) by action of the Board of Directors.      Section 2. INSPECTION. A copy of the By-Laws, with all amendments
thereto, shall at all times be kept in a convenient place at the principal office of the Corporation and shall be open for inspection to all stockholders during normal business hours.   
         17   

</EX-3.2>

<EX-10.134>
 3
 dex10134.htm
 FORM OF EXECUTIVE RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT

Form of Executive Restricted Stock Agreement 

Exhibit 10.134       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
Long-Term Incentive Plan        FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT    
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Corporation ) and
                                , a key employee (the  Grantee ) of the Corporation, in
consideration of the covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:   
  SECTION 1:  Stock Award       1.1  Award . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Agreement (this  Agreement ) and to the terms of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Corporation hereby awards to the Grantee                  shares of the Corporation s common stock, par value $.01, (the
 Common Stock ) on                          (the  Grant Date ), subject to adjustment as provided in Article IX of
the Plan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.      1.2  Acceptance .
The Grantee accepts the award confirmed hereby, and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, as the Agreement and the Plan may be amended from time to time;  provided, however,  that no alteration,
amendment, revocation or termination of this Agreement or the Plan shall, without the written consent of the Grantee, adversely affect the rights of the Grantee with respect to the award.   
  1.3  Dividend Rights . During the period prior to vesting, the Grantee will have the right to receive dividends paid with respect to
the Common Stock in cash[, provided that the Grantee is employed by the Corporation on the dividend record date]. In the event that the Grantee receives additional shares as an adjustment with respect to the award, such additional shares will be
subject to the same restrictions as if granted under this Agreement as of the Grant Date.  Corporation,  when used herein with reference to employment of the Grantee, shall include any Affiliate of the Corporation.   
  SECTION 2:  Restrictions on Transfer       2.1  Nontransferable . No shares of Common Stock awarded hereunder or any interest therein may be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise disposed of (any such action being hereinafter
referred to as a  Disposition ) by the Grantee until such time as this restriction lapses with respect to such shares pursuant to Section 3 hereof, and any attempt to make such a Disposition shall be null and void and result in the
immediate forfeiture and return to the Corporation without consideration of any shares of Common Stock as to which restrictions on Disposition shall at such time be in effect.      2.2  Legend . The Grantee agrees that a restrictive legend in substantially the following form may be placed on the shares of Common Stock awarded hereunder:   
   The sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or other disposition of the shares represented hereby is subject to the restrictions set
forth in The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive   

Plan and in the Restricted Stock Agreement executed thereunder dated as of
                        , copies of each of which are available for inspection at the office of the Corporate Compensation Division of the
Human Resources Department of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. No such transaction shall be recognized as valid or effective unless there shall have been compliance with the terms and conditions of such Plan and Agreement.    
  2.3  Custody . The Grantee hereby authorizes the Corporation or its agents to retain custody of the Common Stock awarded hereunder
until such time as the restrictions on Disposition lapse. As soon as practicable after the date on which restrictions on Disposition of any shares lapse, the Corporation will cause such shares to be credited to a book-entry account in the
Grantee s name with the restrictive legend described in Section 2.2 hereof removed. As soon as practicable, if requested by the Corporation, the Grantee shall deliver a signed copy of this Agreement to the Corporate Compensation Division
of the Corporation s Human Resources Department. The Grantee understands that the transfer agent for the Common Stock will be instructed to effect transfers of the shares of Common Stock awarded hereunder only upon satisfaction of the
conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      SECTION 3:  Vesting, Forfeiture, Termination of Employment and Disability 
     3.1  Vesting Period[, Required Tier 1 Capital Ratio] and Forfeiture .   
  (a)  Vesting . Subject to Sections [3.1(b),] 3.2, 3.3 and 4.6 hereof, if the Grantee remains continuously employed by the
Corporation through the close of business on [                         , the restrictions on Disposition of the Common Stock set forth
in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse in full on such date and the Grantee shall receive the shares of Common Stock free of such restrictions on Disposition.] [the applicable anniversary of the Grant Date, the restrictions on Disposition of the
Common Stock set forth in Section 2.1 of this Agreement shall lapse in accordance with the following schedule and the Grantee shall receive such shares of Common Stock free of such restrictions on Disposition: [vesting to occur ratably over
             years.]]      [(b)  Required Tier 1 Capital Ratio . As
promptly as practicable following the end of calendar year                 , the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Corporation s Board of Directors (the
 Committee ) shall determine in accordance with the terms of this Agreement whether the Corporation s Tier 1 Capital Ratio (as hereinafter described) at
                         was greater than or equal to
                % (the  Performance Requirement ). If the Committee determines that the Performance Requirement has not been satisfied, all shares of Common Stock
awarded hereunder shall be forfeited and returned to the Corporation without further action being required of the Corporation. For the purposes of this Agreement,  Tier 1 Capital Ratio  shall be as defined by US regulators on the Grant
Date with the numerator equaling Tier 1 capital as defined by US regulators on the Grant Date and the denominator equaling the risk weighted assets as defined by US regulators on the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 3.2 or 3.3
below, under no circumstances will the restrictions on Disposition of the Common Stock set forth in Section 2.1 hereof lapse unless and until the Committee determines that the Performance Requirement has been satisfied.]   
  [(b)/(c)]  Forfeiture Upon Termination of Employment . Upon the effective date of a termination of the Grantee s employment
with the Corporation occurring prior to the lapse of restrictions on Disposition pursuant to this Section 3.1 or pursuant to Sections 3.2 or 3.3 hereof, all   
         - 2 -

shares of Common Stock then subject to restrictions on Disposition shall immediately be forfeited and returned to the Corporation without consideration or further action being required of the
Corporation [ except  in situations where vesting would have occurred but for [(i)] a delay pursuant to Section 3.4 below[; or (ii) the fact that a determination has not yet been made as to whether the Performance Requirement has been
satisfied. In the event that the Committee has already determined that the Performance Requirement has been satisfied as of the date of the Grantee s termination, the restrictions on Disposition shall lapse on the termination date unless
Section 3.4 requires a later vesting date. If, however, the Committee has not determined whether the Performance Requirement has been satisfied as of the date of Grantee s termination, the restrictions on Disposition shall lapse
immediately if and when the Committee determines that the Performance Requirement has been satisfied, unless Section 3.4 requires a later vesting date]]. The effective date of the Grantee s termination shall be the date upon which the
Grantee ceases to perform services as an employee of the Corporation, without regard to accrued vacation, severance or other benefits or the characterization thereof on the payroll records of the Corporation.   
  3.2  Specified Terminations of Employment .      (a)  Death, [Without Cause/Good Reason/Constructive Discharge,] [Age   Service Rule/Retirement, Specified Age,] [Displacement/Transition/Separation Pay,] Sale of Business . The restrictions
on Disposition of the Common Stock set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse immediately upon termination of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation if such termination is by reason of (i) the Grantee s death, [(ii) the
Grantee s termination of employment by the Corporation without  Cause , as defined in                       ,] [(iii) the
Grantee s termination of employment by Grantee for  Good Reason, / Constructive Discharge  as defined in
                      ,] [(iv) The Grantee s retirement with the consent of the Corporation,] [(v)] the Grantee s termination on or
after the Grantee s attainment of age 55 but prior to age 60 with ten years of credited employment with the Corporation, [(vi)] the Grantee s termination on or after the Grantee s attainment of age 60, [(vii)] [a
displacement/separation, as determined in accordance with the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program/The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan/The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Separation Plan, as then in effect, or] a
termination providing transition/separation pay [from the Corporation], or [(viii)] the Grantee s termination by the Corporation due to a sale of a business unit or subsidiary of the Corporation by which the Grantee is employed.   
  (b) [ Other Age   Service Rule.  If the Grantee s employment with the Corporation terminates on or after the
Grantee s attainment of age 55 but prior to age 60 and the Grantee has less than 10 years of credited employment with the Corporation, effective immediately upon the Grantee s termination of employment, the restrictions on Disposition of
the Common Stock set forth in Section 2.1 shall lapse upon a number of shares of Common Stock equal to (i) the number of whole and fractional months from the Grant Date through the date upon which the Grantee s employment is
terminated [(without regard to any delayed vesting under Section 3.4 below)], divided by (ii)   [              ], with the result multiplied by (iii) the number of
shares of Common Stock awarded hereunder, [with any resulting fractional share rounded up. All then remaining shares of Common Stock awarded hereunder shall be forfeited immediately] [with that result reduced by (iv) the number of shares of
Common Stock granted hereunder upon which the restrictions on Disposition had already lapsed as of the date of termination. In such case, any resulting fractional share shall be rounded up and all then remaining shares of Common Stock awarded
hereunder shall be forfeited immediately].   
         - 3 -

(c)  Change in Control . If the Grantee s employment is terminated by the
Corporation  without cause,  as defined in Section 3.5(e) of the Plan, within two years after a Change in Control occurring after the Grant Date, the restrictions on Disposition of the Common Stock set forth in Section 2.1 hereof
shall lapse immediately upon termination of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation.      3.3  Disability . The
restrictions on Disposition of the Common Stock set forth in Section 2.1 hereof shall lapse on the first day for which the Grantee receives long-term disability benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan.   
  [3.4  Delayed Vesting . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3, any vesting under this Agreement which
would otherwise occur within one year from the Grant Date will be delayed until the one year anniversary of the Grant Date except in the case of vesting due to death, disability or as may be required by prior contractual obligation.]   
  SECTION 4:  Miscellaneous       4.1  No Right to Employment . Neither the award of Common Stock nor anything else contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be deemed to limit or restrict the right of the Corporation to
terminate the Grantee s employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.      4.2  Compliance with Laws .
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Grantee hereby agrees to take any action, and consents to the taking of any action by the Corporation, with respect to the Common Stock awarded hereunder necessary to achieve compliance with
applicable laws or regulations in effect from time to time. Any determination in this connection by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Corporation shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the
Securities Act of 1933 (as the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action in order to cause the award of Common Stock under the Plan, the lapsing of restrictions thereon or the delivery of shares in book-entry
form or otherwise therefore to comply with any law or regulation in effect from time to time. [The Grantee understands and agrees that, during the U.S. Treasury s Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) restricted period, awards to any
individual who is one of the Corporation s senior executive officers or one of the Corporation s most highly compensated employees under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ) may be affected by ARRA and the
regulations as may be adopted pursuant to ARRA. As a result, the Corporation may reduce, delay vesting, revoke, cancel, claw back or impose different terms and conditions, and/or pay in an alternative form for any such individual if the Corporation
deems it necessary or advisable to do so in its sole discretion in order to comply with the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 as amended by ARRA or other applicable law or regulation.] [For the avoidance of doubt, the Grantee understands
and agrees that if any payment or other obligation under of arising from this Agreement, including without limitation dividend rights, or the Plan is in conflict with or is restricted by any U.S. federal, state or local or other applicable law
(including without limitation, any regulations and interpretations thereunder) [or any agreement between the Corporation and any government regulator or listing requirements of the principal securities exchange on which the Corporation s shares
are then listed], then the Corporation may reduce, revoke, cancel, adjust, clawback or impose different terms and conditions to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, in its sole discretion, to effect such compliance.] [If
  
         - 4 -

the Corporation determines that it is necessary or appropriate for any payments under this Agreement to be delayed in order to avoid additional tax, interest and or penalties under
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, then the payments would not be made before the date which is the first day following the six (6) month anniversary of the date of the Grantee s termination of employment (or upon earlier
death).]      4.3  Plan Governs . This is the Award Agreement referred to in Section 2.3(b) of the Plan. To the extent
that any written and effective offer letter or employment agreement with the Grantee contains terms with respect to vesting of restricted stock that are more favorable than those contained herein, such terms shall apply as if part of this Agreement,
 provided that  the Grantee has complied with the terms of such offer letter and/or employment agreement. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. A copy of the Plan may be
obtained from the Corporate Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human Resources Department. No amount of income received by the Grantee pursuant to the Common Stock shall be considered compensation for purposes of any pension or
retirement plan, insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Corporation.      4.4  Liability for Breach . The
Grantee hereby indemnifies the Corporation and holds it harmless from and against any and all damages or liabilities incurred by the Corporation (including liabilities for attorneys  fees and disbursements) arising out of any breach by the
Grantee of this Agreement, including, without limitation, any attempted Disposition in violation of Section 2.1 hereof.   
  4.5  Tax Withholding . The Grantee shall be advised by the Corporation as to the amount of any federal, state, local or foreign
income or employment taxes required to be withheld on the compensation income resulting from the award of, or lapse of restrictions on, the Common Stock. The Grantee shall pay any taxes required to be withheld directly to the Corporation in cash
upon request; provided, however, that where the restrictions on Disposition set forth in Section 2.1 hereof have lapsed the Grantee may satisfy such obligation in whole or in part by requesting the Corporation in writing to withhold from the
Common Stock otherwise deliverable to the Grantee or by delivering to the Corporation shares of its Common Stock having a Fair Market Value, on the date the restrictions lapse equal to the amount of the aggregate minimum statutory withholding tax
obligation to be so satisfied, in accordance with such rules as the Committee may prescribe. If the Grantee does not make such request, the Corporation will automatically net unless it has previously requested payment in cash. The Corporation s
obligation to issue or credit shares to the Grantee is contingent upon the Grantee s satisfaction of an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, local or other withholding tax requirements, notwithstanding the lapse of the restrictions
thereon.      4.6  Forfeiture and Repayment . If:      (a) during the course of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation, the Grantee engages in conduct or it is discovered that the Grantee engaged in conduct that is materially adverse to the
interests of the Corporation, including failures to comply with the Corporation s rules or regulations, fraud, or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities;   
  (b) during the course of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation and, unless the Grantee has post-termination obligations or
duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates pursuant to an individual agreement set forth in subsection [(c)/(d)] below, for one year thereafter, the Grantee engages in solicitation and/or diversion of customers or employees [and/or] [;
(c) during the course of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation, the Grantee engages in] competition with the Corporation or its Affiliates; or   
         - 5 -

[(c)/(d)] following termination of the Grantee s employment with the Corporation for
any reason, with or without cause, the Grantee violates any post-termination obligations or duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates or any agreement with the Corporation or its Affiliates, including without limitation, any employment
agreement, confidentiality agreement or other agreement restricting post-employment conduct;      the Corporation may cancel all or any portion of
this award with respect to the shares subject to restrictions on Disposition and/or require repayment of any shares (or the value thereof) or amounts which were acquired from the award. The Corporation shall have sole discretion to determine what
constitutes such conduct. [The Grantee further agrees and acknowledges that the award is also subject to recovery or  clawback  by the Corporation under and pursuant to the terms of
                        .]      4.7  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, other than any choice of law provisions calling for the application of laws
of another jurisdiction.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the Grant Date.

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

GRANTEE   

[Name]    

         - 6 -

</EX-10.134>

<EX-10.135>
 4
 dex10135.htm
 FORM OF EXECUTIVE STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

Form of Executive Stock Option Agreement 

Exhibit 10.135       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation
Long-Term Incentive Plan        FORM OF NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT    
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Corporation ) and   ,
                           a key employee (the  Optionee ) of the Corporation, in consideration of the covenants
and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:      SECTION 1:  Grant 
     1.1  Grant of Option . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement (this
 Agreement ) and to the terms of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), the Corporation hereby grants to the Optionee a stock option (the  Option ) to purchase
                 shares of the Corporation s common stock, par value $.01, (the  Common Stock ) from the Corporation at a price of
$               per share (the  Option Price ), which is the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock covered by the Option on
                                 (the  Grant Date ). Capitalized terms not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Plan.      1.2  Acceptance . The Optionee accepts the grant of the
Option confirmed hereby, and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, as the Agreement and the Plan may be amended from time to time;  provided, however,  that no alteration, amendment, revocation or
termination of the Agreement or the Plan shall, without the written consent of the Optionee, adversely affect the rights of the Optionee with respect to the Option.      SECTION 2:  Vesting, Exercise and Expiration       2.1  Vesting . Subject
to Sections 3 and 4.8 of this Agreement, the Option will vest and become exercisable in annual installments over a four-year vesting period according to the following vesting schedule:   
     
1   /  4   of the Option will vest upon the 1   st    anniversary of the Grant Date;    
  an additional    1   /  4   of the Option will vest upon the 2   nd    anniversary of the Grant Date;    
  an additional    1   /  4   of the Option will vest upon the 3   rd    anniversary of the Grant Date; and    
  an additional    1   /  4   of the Option will vest upon the 4   th    anniversary of the Grant Date;        provided that  the Optionee is employed by the Corporation on such anniversary, with all fractional shares, if any, rounded up and vesting as whole shares upon the earlier vesting date(s).
 Corporation,  when used herein with reference to employment of the Optionee, shall include any Affiliate of the Corporation. To the extent vested, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part from the date of vesting through and
including the Option Expiration Date, as defined in Section 2.3 hereof, subject to any limits provided in Section 3.   

2.2  Exercise . This Option shall be exercised by the Optionee by delivering to the
Corporate Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human Resources Department (i) this Agreement signed by the Optionee, (ii) a written (including electronic) notification specifying the number of shares which the Optionee then
desires to purchase, (iii) a check payable to the order of the Corporation, which may include cash forwarded through the broker or other agent-sponsored exercise or financing program approved by the Corporation, and/or shares, or certification
of ownership for shares, of Common Stock equal in value to the aggregate Option Price of such shares and/or an instruction from the Optionee directing the Corporation to withhold shares of Common Stock otherwise receivable upon exercise of this
Option (subject to any restrictions regarding prior ownership of such shares or an equivalent number of shares imposed by the Corporation), and (iv) a stock power executed in blank for any shares of Common Stock delivered or withheld pursuant
to clause (iii) hereof. Shares of Common Stock surrendered, certified or withheld in exercise of this Option shall be subject to terms and conditions imposed by the Committee and shall be valued as of the date, and by the means, prescribed by
the Corporation s procedures in effect at the time of such exercise and in accordance with the terms of the Plan. As soon as practicable after each exercise of this Option and compliance by the Optionee with all applicable conditions, the
Corporation will credit the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, which the Optionee is entitled to receive upon such exercise under the provisions of this Agreement to a book-entry account in the Optionee s name.   
  2.3  Expiration . The Option shall expire and cease to be exercisable on the earlier of (a) either (i) the last trading
day immediately preceding the ten year anniversary of the Grant Date or, if earlier, (ii) the date of cancellation provided for in Section 4.8 (the earlier of (i) and (ii) referred to as the  Option Expiration Date ) or
(b) the expiration date provided for in Section 3.      SECTION 3:  Termination of Employment and Disability 
     3.1  Termination of Employment .      (a)  General . If the Optionee s employment with the Corporation is terminated, this Option will expire on the Termination Date except as provided in Sections 3.2 or 3.3 hereof.   
  (b)  Meaning of Terms . As used in this Agreement, (i)  Termination Date  shall mean the date upon which the Optionee
ceases performing services as an employee of the Corporation, without regard to accrued vacation, severance or other benefits or the characterization thereof on the payroll records of the Corporation; and (ii)  Payroll Separation
Date  shall mean the last day for which the Optionee receives salary continuance or separation/transition pay from the Corporation, if any, without regard to any period during which receipt of payments may be delayed to avoid imposition of
additional taxes under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). If the Optionee does not receive salary continuance or separation/transition pay from the Corporation, the Payroll Separation Date will
be the same date as the Termination Date.   
         -2-

3.2  Specified Terminations of Employment .   
    (a) [ Termination without Cause . If the Optionee s employment is terminated by the Corporation  without
cause , as defined in Section 3.5(e) of the Plan, the unvested portion of the Option will expire on the Termination Date and the Optionee will have thirty days following the Termination Date to exercise the portion of the Option that was
vested on the Termination Date;    provided, however,    (i) if the Optionee is entitled to benefits under the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program/The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan/The Bank of New
York Mellon Corporation Separation Plan, then in effect (and such plan does not otherwise provide for vesting and exercise periods for stock options), or is entitled to separation/transition pay, the unvested portion of the Option will expire on the
Payroll Separation Date and the vested portion of the Option may be exercised for one year following the Payroll Separation Date, or (ii) if the Optionee is entitled to benefits under The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan and such
plan provides for vesting and exercise periods for stock options, then such vesting and exercise periods described in such plan shall apply;    provided further,    in any case the Option may not extend beyond the Option Expiration
Date.][ Termination without Cause/Constructive Discharge . If the Optionee s employment is terminated (i) by the Corporation without  Cause , as defined in
                            ; or (ii) by the Optionee for  constructive discharge,  as was defined in
                                    , this Option shall automatically become
fully exercisable and the Optionee shall have the right to exercise this Option until the Option Expiration Date.]      
  (b) [ Termination following Satisfaction of Age and Service Criteria][Retirement] :      
  (i) [ Age 55   60 . If the Payroll Separation Date occurs on or after the Optionee s attainment of age 55 but prior to age
60, the Option will continue to vest as set forth in Section 2.1 hereof through the Payroll Separation Date and the Optionee will have three years from the Payroll Separation Date to exercise the portion of the Option that was vested as of such
date (or, if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).] [If the Optionee s employment with the Corporation is terminated by reason of retirement with the consent of the Corporation, this Option will automatically become fully exercisable upon
the Termination Date and the Optionee will have the right to exercise this Option until the Option Expiration Date.]      (ii) [To
the extent Subsection 3.2(b)(i) hereof does not apply, if the Optionee s employment with the Corporation is terminated and] [ Age 60   65 . If] the Payroll Separation Date occurs on or after the Optionee s attainment of age 60
but prior to age 65, the Option will continue to vest as set forth in Section 2.1 hereof during the five year period following the Payroll Separation Date and the Optionee will have five years following the Payroll Separation Date to exercise
the Option to the extent it is or becomes vested during such period (or, if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).      (iii)
[To the extent Subsection 3.2(b)(i) hereof does not apply, if the Optionee s employment with the Corporation is terminated and] [ Age 65 and over . If] the Payroll Separation Date occurs on or after the Optionee s attainment of age
65, this Option will automatically become fully exercisable upon the Termination Date (or, if the Optionee has not attained age 65 on the Termination Date, upon the date on which the Optionee attains age 65) and the Optionee will have seven years
following the Payroll Separation Date to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).   
         -3-

(c)  Sale of Business Unit or Subsidiary . If the Optionee s employment with the
Corporation is terminated by the Corporation due to the sale of a business unit or subsidiary of the Corporation by which the Optionee is employed, and the Optionee is not displaced/separated pursuant to the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement
Program/The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan/The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Separation Plan, then in effect, or otherwise entitled to transition/separation pay, upon the Termination Date any then unvested Option shall vest on
a pro-rata basis equal to (i) the number of whole and fractional months from the Grant Date through the Termination Date [(without regard to any delayed vesting under Section 3.4 below)], divided by (ii) 48 months, with the result
multiplied by (iii) the total number of the shares subject to the Option, with that result reduced by (iv) the number of shares subject to the Option that were already vested as of the Termination Date, and the remaining portion of the
Option will expire immediately. In such case, the Optionee will have two years following the Termination Date to exercise the Option that was or became vested as of the Termination Date (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).   
  (d)  Death . If the Optionee shall die while employed by the Corporation, or within a period following termination of employment
during which this Option remains exercisable, the then remaining unvested portion of this Option shall automatically become fully exercisable and the executor or administrator of the Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the
Optionee shall have transferred such right by Will or by the laws of descent and distribution will have [two years following the date of death to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date)] [the
right to exercise this Option until the Option Expiration Date].      (e)  Change in Control . If the Optionee s
employment is terminated by the Corporation  without cause,  as defined in Section 3.5(e) of the Plan, within two years after a Change in Control occurring after the Grant Date, this Option shall automatically become fully exercisable
and the Optionee will have one year following the Payroll Separation Date to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date) [or such longer period as provided in Section 3.2(a) hereof].   
    [(f)  Special Termination Right . If the Optionee s employment is terminated pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
Special Termination Right, as such term is defined in                                 , the
unvested portion of the Option will fully vest and become immediately exercisable upon the Termination Date, and will continue to be outstanding and in effect for (i) five years following the Termination Date if such termination occurs on or
after Optionee s attainment of age 55 or (ii) three years following the Termination Date if such termination occurs before Optionee s attainment of age 55 (or, in either case, if earlier, until the Option Expiration Date).] 
      3.3  Disability . This Option shall automatically vest and become fully exercisable on the first day for which the
Optionee receives long-term disability benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan, and the Optionee will have [two years following such date to exercise the Optionee s vested Option (or if earlier, until the Option
Expiration Date)] [the right to exercise this Option until the Option Expiration Date].   
         -4-

[3.4  Delayed Vesting . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, any
vesting under this Agreement which would otherwise occur within one year from the Grant Date will be delayed until the one year anniversary of the Grant Date except in the case of vesting due to death, disability or as may be required by prior
contractual obligation.]      SECTION 4:  Miscellaneous    
  4.1  No Right to Employment . Neither the grant of the Option nor anything else contained in this Agreement or the Plan shall be
deemed to limit or restrict the right of the Corporation to terminate the Optionee s employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.      4.2  Nontransferable . This Option may not be transferred except by the Optionee upon his or her death. No other assignment or transfer of this Option, or of the rights represented thereby, whether
voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise shall be permitted, but immediately upon any such assignment or transfer this Option shall terminate and become of no further effect. During the Optionee s life this Option shall be
exercisable only by the Optionee, and after the Optionee s death the Option shall remain subject to any restrictions on exercise and otherwise as if held by the Optionee. Whenever the word  Optionee  is used in any provision of this
Option under circumstances where the provision should logically be construed to apply to the executors, the administrators or other persons to whom this Option may be transferred, the word  Optionee  shall be deemed to include such person
or persons.      4.3  Adjustment . This Option is subject to adjustment as provided in Article IX of the Plan.
     4.4  Compliance with Laws . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Optionee hereby agrees that he or she will
not exercise the Option, and that the Corporation will not be obligated to issue any shares to the Optionee hereunder, if the exercise thereof or the issuance of such shares shall constitute a violation by the Optionee or the Corporation of any
provision of law or regulation of any governmental authority. Any determination in this connection by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive. The Corporation shall in no event be obliged to register any securities pursuant to the
Securities Act of 1933 (as the same shall be in effect from time to time) or to take any other affirmative action in order to cause the exercise of the Option or the issuance of shares pursuant thereto to comply with any law or regulation of any
governmental authority. [The Optionee understands and agrees that, during the U.S. Treasury s Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) restricted period, awards to any individual who is one of the Corporation s senior executive
officers or one of the Corporation s most highly compensated employees under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ) may be affected by ARRA and the regulations as may be adopted pursuant to ARRA. As a result, the
Corporation may reduce, delay vesting, revoke, cancel, claw back or impose different terms and conditions, and/or pay in an alternative form for any such individual if the Corporation deems it necessary or advisable to do so in its sole discretion
in order to comply with the Emergency   
         -5-

Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 as amended by ARRA or other applicable law or regulation.] [For the avoidance of doubt, the Optionee understands and agrees that if any payment or other
obligation under of arising from this Agreement or the Plan is in conflict with or is restricted by any U.S. federal, state or local or other applicable law (including without limitation, any regulations and interpretations thereunder), then the
Corporation may reduce, revoke, cancel, clawback or impose different terms and conditions to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate, in its sole discretion, to effect such compliance.]   
  4.5  Plan Governs . This is the Award Agreement referred to in Section 2.3(b) of the Plan. To the extent that any written and
effective offer letter or employment agreement with the Optionee contains terms with respect to vesting and exercise periods of stock options that are more favorable than those contained herein, such terms shall apply as if part of this Agreement,
 provided that  the Optionee has complied with the terms of such offer letter and/or employment agreement. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. A copy of the Plan may be
obtained from the Corporate Compensation Division of the Corporation s Human Resources Department. No amount of income received by an Optionee pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered compensation for purposes of any pension or retirement
plan, insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Corporation.      4.6  Nonstatutory Stock Option . The parties
hereto agree that the Option granted hereby is not, and should not be construed to be, an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code.      4.7  Tax Withholding . In each case where the Optionee exercises this Option in whole or in part, the Corporation will notify the Optionee of the amount of withholding tax, if any, required under
federal and, where applicable, state and local law, and the Optionee shall, forthwith upon the receipt of such notice, remit the required amount to the Corporation or, in accordance with such regulations as the Committee may prescribe, elect to have
the withholding obligation satisfied in whole or in part by the Corporation withholding full shares of Common Stock and crediting them against the withholding obligation. The Corporation s obligation to issue or credit shares to the Optionee is
contingent upon the Optionee s satisfaction of an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, local or other withholding tax requirements.      4.8  Forfeiture and Repayment . If:      (a) during the course of the
Optionee s employment with the Corporation or, if longer, the period during which this Option is outstanding, the Optionee engages in conduct or it is discovered that the Optionee engaged in conduct that is materially adverse to the interests
of the Corporation, including failures to comply with the Corporation s rules or regulations, fraud, or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities;   
  (b) during the course of the Optionee s employment with the Corporation and, unless the Optionee has post-termination obligations or
duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates pursuant to an individual agreement set forth in subsection [(c)/(d)] below, for one year thereafter, the Optionee engages in solicitation and/or diversion of customers or employees [and/or] [;
(c) during the course of the Optionee s employment with the Corporation, the Optionee engages in] competition with the Corporation or its Affiliates]; or   
         -6-

[(c)/(d)] following termination of the Optionee s employment with the Corporation
for any reason, with or without cause, the Optionee violates any post-termination obligations or duties owed to the Corporation or its Affiliates or any agreement with the Corporation or its Affiliates, including without limitation, any employment
agreement, confidentiality agreement or other agreement restricting post-employment conduct;        the Corporation may cancel all or any
portion of this Option with respect to the shares not yet exercised and/or require repayment of any shares (or the value thereof) or amounts which were acquired from exercise of the Option. The Corporation shall have sole discretion to determine
what constitutes such conduct. [The Optionee further agrees and acknowledges that the award is also subject to recovery or  clawback  by the Corporation under and pursuant to the terms of
                        .]        4.9  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, other than any choice of law rules calling for the application of laws of
another jurisdiction.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the Grant Date.   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   

By:  

OPTIONEE   

-7-

</EX-10.135>

<EX-12.1>
 5
 dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(c)   
   The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 6
 dex131.htm
 ALL PORTIONS OF 2010 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

All portions of 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 13.1         FINANCIAL  SECTION        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
CORPORATION        2010 ANNUAL REPORT        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page   

Financial Summary      

2  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:    

Results of Operations:   

General    

4  

Overview    

4  

2010 events    

5  

Summary of financial results    

5  

Fee and other revenue    

8  

Operations of consolidated asset management funds    

10  

Net interest revenue    

11  

Noninterest expense    

14  

Support agreements    

15  

Income taxes    

16  

Review of businesses    

16  

International operations    

29  

Critical accounting estimates    

32  

Consolidated balance sheet review    

38  

Liquidity and dividends    

51  

Commitments and obligations    

54  

Off-balance sheet arrangements    

55  

Capital    

55  

Risk management    

58  

Trading activities and risk management    

62  

Foreign exchange and other trading    

62  

Asset/liability management    

63  

Business continuity    

64  

Supplemental Information:   

Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures (unaudited)    

66  

Rate/volume analysis (unaudited)    

71  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments    

72  

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    

79  

Forward-looking Statements    

80  

Glossary    

82  

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

86  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

87  

Corporate Information     

Inside back cover  

Table of Contents  

      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only. All legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. earnings per share and share-related data are
presented in post-merger share count terms.      

(c)   
   Includes the impact of adopting ASC 810. See Operations of consolidated asset management funds and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.      

(d)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      

(e)   
   Diluted earnings per common share for 2009 was calculated using average basic shares. Adding back the dilutive shares would result in anti-dilution.

(f)   
   Represents the securities on loan, both cash and non-cash, managed by the Asset Servicing business.      
      
  2     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only. All legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. earnings per share and share-related data are
presented in post-merger share count terms.      

(d)   
   See Supplemental Information beginning on page 66 for a calculation of these ratios.      

(e)   
   Excluding the SILO/LILO charge, the percentage of non-U.S. fee and net interest revenue was 32% and the net interest margin was 2.21% for the year ended Dec. 31,
2008.      

(f)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      
         BNY
Mellon     3   

Table of Contents  

    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
   Results of Operations        
    
      General       In this Annual Report, references to  our,   we,   us,   BNY Mellon,  the  Company,  and similar terms for periods on or after July 1, 2007 refer to
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and references to  our,   we,   us,  the  Company,  and similar terms prior to July 1, 2007 refer to The Bank of New York Company, Inc.   
  BNY Mellon s actual results of future operations may differ from those estimated or anticipated in certain forward-looking statements contained
herein for reasons which are discussed below and under the heading  Forward-looking Statements.  When used in this Annual Report, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate, 
 confident,   target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may, 
 will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends,  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements in addition to statements specifically identified as forward-looking
statements.      Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the Glossary.   
  The following should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Investors should also read the
section entitled  Forward-looking Statements.        How we reported results    
  All information in this Annual Report is reported on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted. For a description of discontinued operations,
see Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Throughout this Annual Report, certain measures, which are noted, exclude
certain items. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons, which relate to our ability to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are
within our control. We also present certain amounts on a fully taxable equivalent ( FTE ) basis. We believe that this presentation allows for comparison of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with
industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income. Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to

place them on a basis comparable with the current period presentation. See  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 66 for a
reconciliation of financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP to adjusted non-GAAP financial measures.      On July 1, 2007, The
Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries,  BNY Mellon ), with BNY Mellon being the
surviving entity. Results for 2007 reflect six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Results prior to 2007 reflect legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.   
     Overview       BNY Mellon is
the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK). BNY Mellon is a leading manager and servicer of global financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than 100 markets. Our global client base consists
of the world s largest financial institutions, corporations, government agencies, high-net-worth individuals, families, endowments and foundations and related entities. At Dec. 31, 2010, we had $25.0 trillion in assets under custody and
administration and $1.17 trillion in assets under management, serviced $12.0 trillion in outstanding debt and, on average, processed $1.6 trillion of global payments per day.      BNY Mellon s businesses benefit from the global growth in financial assets and from the globalization of the investment process. Over the long term, our financial goals are focused on deploying
capital to accelerate the long-term growth of our businesses and achieving superior total returns to shareholders by generating first quartile earnings per share growth over time relative to a group of peer companies.   
  Key components of our strategy include: providing superior client service versus peers; strong      investment performance relative to investment benchmarks; above-median revenue growth relative to peer companies; increasing the percentage of revenue and income derived from outside the U.S.; successful
integration of acquisitions; competitive margins; and positive operating leverage. We have established Tier 1 capital as our principal capital measure and have established a targeted ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 10%. We expect
to update our capital targets once Basel III guidelines are finalized.   

4     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
      2010 events        Acquisition of Global Investment Servicing, Inc.       On July 1, 2010, BNY Mellon
acquired Global Investment Servicing, Inc. ( GIS ) for cash of $2.3 billion. GIS provides a comprehensive suite of products that includes subaccounting, fund accounting/administration, custody, managed account services and alternative
investment services. GIS is based in Wilmington, Delaware, and has approximately 4,500 employees in locations across the U.S. and Europe.      At
June 30, 2010, GIS had approximately $719 billion in assets under administration, including $449 billion in assets under custody. GIS is included in the Institutional Services Group for reporting purposes.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, approximately $6.8 billion of deposits related to GIS are expected to transition to BNY Mellon by the end of 2011. Until the transition
is completed, we will receive net economic value payments for these deposits.       Acquisition of BHF Asset Servicing GmbH    
  On Aug. 2, 2010, BNY Mellon acquired BHF Asset Servicing GmbH ( BAS ) for cash of EUR281 million (US$370 million). This transaction
included the purchase of Frankfurter Service Kapitalanlage   Gesellschaft mbH ( FSKAG ), a wholly owned fund administration affiliate.      BAS and FSKAG became part of BNY Mellon s Asset Servicing business. The combined business offers a full range of tailored solutions for investment companies, financial institutions and institutional
investors in Germany with EUR569 billion (US$744 billion) in assets under custody and administration and depotbanking volume of EUR122 billion (US$159 billion) at acquisition.      The aforementioned acquisitions were accretive to earnings in 2010.       Asset Management joint
venture in Shanghai       In July 2010, the China Securities Regulatory Commission authorized BNY Mellon and Western Securities to establish a
joint venture fund management company in China. The new company, BNY Mellon Western Fund Management Company Limited ( BNY Mellon Western Fund Management ), is owned by BNY Mellon (49%) and Western Securities (51%).

BNY Mellon Western Fund Management manages domestic Chinese securities in a range of local retail fund
products. BNY Mellon Western Fund Management also focuses on leveraging distribution within the Chinese banking and securities sectors.   
   Acquisition of I3 Advisors       On Sept. 1,
2010, BNY Mellon acquired I3 Advisors of Toronto, an independent wealth advisory company with more than C$3.8 billion in assets under advisement at acquisition. This was BNY Mellon s first wealth management acquisition in Canada.   
   Common stock offering       In June 2010,
BNY Mellon priced 25.9 million common shares in an underwritten public offering, at $27.00 per common share. In connection with this offering, BNY Mellon entered into a forward sale agreement with a forward purchaser, who borrowed and sold to
the public through the underwriters shares of the Company s common stock. In September 2010, BNY Mellon settled the forward sale agreement. At settlement, BNY Mellon received net proceeds of approximately $677 million. The proceeds were
primarily used to fund the acquisition of GIS.       Adoption of new accounting standards    
  On Jan. 1, 2010, we adopted ASC 810,  Consolidation  issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ). This statement requires
ongoing assessments to determine whether an entity is a variable interest entity ( VIE ) and whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE and, accordingly, must consolidate the VIE in the enterprise s financial
statements. Adoption of this new statement increased consolidated total assets on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2010 by $14.6 billion for the consolidation of certain asset management funds, seed capital investments and securitizations. See below
and Notes 2 and 16 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.         Summary of financial
results       We reported net income from continuing operations applicable to the common shareholders of BNY Mellon of $2.6 billion, or $2.11
per diluted common share in 2010. This compares with a net loss from continuing operations of $1.1 billion, or $0.93 per diluted common share in 2009 and net income from continuing operations of $1.4 billion, or diluted earnings per common share of
$1.21, in 2008.   

BNY
Mellon     5   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In 2010, the net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, totaled $2.5
billion, or $2.05 per diluted common share, compared with a net loss of $1.4 billion, or $1.16 per diluted common share, in 2009 and net income of $1.4 billion, or $1.20 per diluted common share, in 2008.   
   Highlights of 2010 results        

Assets under custody and administration ( AUC ) totaled a record $25.0 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010 compared with $22.3 trillion at Dec. 31,
2009. This increase was primarily driven by the acquisitions of GIS and BAS (collectively,  the Acquisitions ), higher market values and net new business. (See  Institutional Services Group  beginning on page 22.)

Assets under management ( AUM ) totaled a record $1.17 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010 compared with $1.12 trillion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase
was driven by higher market values and net new business. (See  Asset and Wealth Management Group  beginning on page 18.)      

Securities servicing fee revenue totaled $5.6 billion in 2010 compared with $5.0 billion in 2009. Asset servicing revenue increased as a result of the
Acquisitions, higher market values and net new business. The increase in clearing services revenue was primarily driven by the GIS acquisition. Issuer services revenue was flat compared to 2009. (See  Institutional Services Group 
beginning on page 22.)      

Asset and wealth management fees, including performance fees totaled $2.9 billion in 2010 compared with $2.7 billion in 2009. The increase reflects
higher market values globally, the full year impact of the Insight acquisition and new business, partially offset by a reduction in money market fees due to higher fee waivers and outflows in money markets. (See  Asset Management business 
and  Wealth Management business  beginning on page 20.)      

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $886 million in 2010 compared with $1.0 billion in 2009. The decrease primarily resulted from
both lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue and lower foreign exchange revenue. (See  Fee and other revenue  beginning on page 8.)      

Investment income and other revenue totaled $467 million in 2010 compared with $337 million in 2009. The increase primarily reflects positive
foreign currency translations and higher equity investment income. (See  Fee and other revenue  beginning on page 8.)

Net interest revenue totaled $2.9 billion in both 2010 and 2009 as a higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio and higher
interest-earning assets in 2010 were offset by lower spreads. (See  Net interest revenue  beginning on page 11.)      

Noninterest expense totaled $10.2 billion in 2010 compared with $9.5 billion in 2009. The increase reflects the impact of the Acquisitions, the
full-year impact of the Insight acquisition and higher compensation expense. (See  Noninterest expense  beginning on page 14.)      

The unrealized net of tax gain on our total investment securities portfolio was $150 million at Dec. 31, 2010 compared with a net of tax loss of
$705 million at Dec. 31, 2009. The improvement in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was due to the decline in interest rates and the tightening of credit spreads. (See  Consolidated balance sheet review  beginning
on page 38.)      
 
   Results for 2009       We reported a net
loss from continuing operations applicable to the common shareholders of BNY Mellon of $1.1 billion, or $0.93 per diluted common share in 2009 and a net loss applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, of $1.4 billion, or
$1.16 per diluted common share. These results were primarily driven by:       

Investment securities (pre-tax) net losses of $5.4 billion in 2009 reflecting the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio.

6     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

A provision for credit losses of $332 million in 2009, reflecting a higher number of downgrades and deterioration in certain industry sectors.

An after-tax redemption charge of $196.5 million related to the repurchase of the Series B preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of
the Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) Capital Purchase Program and $86.5 million for dividends/accretion on the Series B preferred stock.         Results for 2009 also included lower securities servicing revenue, lower asset and wealth management fees and lower foreign exchange and other trading revenue.

Results for 2008       Results for 2008 were significantly impacted by the merger with Mellon Financial. The merger increased asset servicing revenue, asset and wealth management revenue, foreign exchange and other trading
revenue, treasury services revenue, distribution and servicing revenue and had a lesser impact on issuer services revenue. Noninterest expense was also significantly impacted by the merger. Results for 2008 also included:   

Securities write-downs of $1.6 billion (pre-tax), primarily relating to negative market assumptions in the housing industry;

Support agreements provided to clients which resulted in an $894 million (pre-tax) charge;      

A charge relating to certain SILOs/LILOs of $489 million (pre-tax) as well as the settlement of several audit cycles;

A restructuring charge of $181 million (pre-tax) related to global workforce reduction initiatives; and      

The consolidation of the assets of our bank-sponsored commercial paper conduit, Old Slip Funding, LLC ( Old Slip ) which resulted in an
extraordinary after-tax loss of $26 million.      

BNY
Mellon     7   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Fee and other revenue    

(a)   
   Asset and wealth management fees exclude $125 million and investment income excludes $42 million as a result of consolidating certain asset management
funds. These fees, net of noncontrolling interests, are included in income of consolidated asset management funds. This change resulted from adopting ASC 810, see  Operations of consolidated asset management funds  beginning on page 10.

(c)   
   See  Supplemental Information  beginning on page 66 for a calculation of this ratio.      
    
    Fee revenue       Fee revenue increased 6% in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of the Acquisitions, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, improved market values and new business,
partially offset by lower foreign exchange and other trading revenue, lower distribution and servicing fees and lower securities lending revenue.       Securities servicing fees       Securities servicing fees were impacted by the following
compared to 2009:       

Asset servicing fees increased 27%, reflecting the impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values, net new business and asset inflows from existing
clients.      

Securities lending revenue decreased 42% as a result of narrower spreads and lower loan balances. In 2010, securities lending loan balances stabilized
and spreads normalized.      

Issuer services fees were flat as higher Depositary Receipts revenue resulting from higher issuance, corporate action and service fees was offset by
lower Corporate Trust fee revenue, reflecting continued weakness in the structured debt markets and lower money market related distribution fees, and lower Shareowner Services revenue, reflecting lower corporate action fees.

Clearing services fees increased 4%, primarily as a result of the impact of the GIS acquisition and growth in mutual fund assets, partially offset by
lower money market related distribution fees.         See the  Institutional Services Group  in  Review of
businesses  for additional details.   

8     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Asset and wealth management fees       Asset and wealth management fees totaled $2.9 billion in 2010, an increase of 7% compared with 2009. Adjusted for performance fees and income from consolidated asset management funds, net of
noncontrolling interests, these fees increased 11%, compared with 2009. The increase reflects improved market values, the Insight acquisition and the impact of net new business.      Total AUM for the Asset and Wealth Management Group were a record $1.17 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $1.12 trillion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher market
values and net new business. Long-term inflows in 2010 were $48 billion and benefited from strength in institutional fixed income and global equity products and positive retail flows. The S P 500 index was 1258 at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with
1115 at Dec. 31, 2009, a 13% increase.      See the  Asset and Wealth Management businesses  in  Review of businesses  for
additional details regarding the drivers of asset and wealth management fees.       Foreign exchange and other trading revenue    
  Foreign exchange and other trading revenue, which is primarily reported in the Asset Servicing business, decreased $150 million, or 14%, from
$1,036 million in 2009. In 2010, foreign exchange revenue totaled $787 million, a decrease of 7% compared with 2009, driven by lower volatility. Other trading revenue totaled $99 million in 2010, a decrease of 47% compared with 2009,
largely due to lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue.       Treasury services    
  Treasury services fees, which are primarily reported in the Treasury Services business, include fees related to funds transfer, cash management and
liquidity management. Treasury services fees were flat compared with 2009.       Distribution and servicing fees    
  Distribution and servicing fees earned from mutual funds are primarily based on average assets in the funds and the sales of funds that we manage or
administer and are primarily reported in the Asset

Management business. These fees, which include 12b-1 fees, fluctuate with the overall level of net sales, the relative mix of sales between share classes and the funds  market values.
     The $116 million decrease in distribution and servicing fee revenue in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily reflects lower money market
assets under management and higher redemptions in 2009. The impact of distribution and servicing fees on income in any one period can be more than offset by distribution and servicing expense paid to other financial intermediaries to cover their
costs for distribution and servicing of mutual funds. Distribution and servicing expense is recorded as noninterest expense on the income statement.       Financing-related fees       Financing-related fees, which are primarily reported in the
Treasury Services business, include capital markets fees, loan commitment fees and credit-related trade fees. Financing-related fees decreased $20 million from 2009 primarily as a result of lower capital markets and credit related fees,
primarily reflecting our strategy to reduce targeted risk exposure.       Investment income    

Investment income, which is primarily reported in the Other and Asset Management businesses, includes income from insurance contracts, lease residual
gains and losses, gains and losses on seed capital investments and private equity investments, and equity investment income (loss). The increase, compared with 2009, primarily reflects higher equity investment revenue, driven by the write-down of
certain equity investments in 2009, and higher private equity gains, partially offset by lower lease residual gains and lower seed capital gains.

BNY
Mellon     9   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Other revenue        
 
  Other revenue includes asset-related gains, expense reimbursements from joint ventures, economic value payments and other income (loss). Asset-related
gains include loan, real estate and other asset dispositions. Expense reimbursements from joint ventures relate to expenses incurred by BNY Mellon on behalf of joint ventures. Economic value payments relate to deposits from the GIS acquisition that
have not yet transferred to BNY Mellon. Other income (loss) primarily includes foreign currency translation, other investments and various miscellaneous revenues.      Total other revenue increased compared with 2009, primarily reflecting higher foreign currency translations partially offset by lower asset-related gains. The decrease in asset-related gains compared with
2009 primarily reflects a gain on the sale of the VISA shares recorded in 2009.       Net investment securities gains (losses)    
  Net investment securities gains totaled $27 million in 2010 compared with losses totaling $5.4 billion in 2009. The loss in 2009 primarily resulted
from a charge related to restructuring the investment securities portfolio.      The following table details investment securities gains (losses)
by type of security. See  Consolidated balance sheet review  for further information on the investment securities portfolio.       

2009 compared with 2008       Fee and other revenue decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily reflecting net securities losses recorded in 2009. Net securities losses totaled $5.4 billion in 2009 compared with losses of $1.6
billion in 2008. The loss in 2009 primarily resulted from a charge related to restructuring the investment securities portfolio.      Fee and
other revenue was also impacted by the following:       

Asset servicing revenue decreased, primarily due to lower average market values in 2009, lower client activity and a stronger U. S. dollar, partially
offset by new business;      

Securities lending revenue decreased, primarily as a result of lower spreads and lower loan balances;      

Issuer services revenue decreased as a result of lower Depositary Receipts revenue, lower Corporate Trust fees and lower Shareowner Services revenue;

Asset and wealth management revenue decreased due to lower average global market values in 2009, lower money market related fees due to increased fee
waivers and short-term outflows, and a stronger U. S. dollar;      

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased primarily as a result of lower foreign exchange revenue driven by lower volumes and a lower
valuation of credit default swaps;      

Other revenue decreased primarily reflecting a lower level of foreign currency translation.      
     Operations of consolidated asset management funds       On Jan. 1, 2010, we adopted ASC 810. See Notes 2 and 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Adoption of this standard resulted in an increase in consolidated
total assets on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2010, of $14.6 billion, or an increase of approximately 7% from Dec. 31, 2009.      We also
separately disclosed the following on the income statement.   

10     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Income from consolidated asset management funds, net of noncontrolling
interests    

(in millions)    
      
   2010   

2009  

2008  

Operations of consolidated asset management funds   
      
   $   
   226   

$  
  -  

$  
  -  

Noncontrolling interest of consolidated asset management funds   

59   

-  

-  

Income from consolidated asset management funds, net of noncontrolling
interests   
      
   $   
   167   

$  
  -  

$  
  -  

Prior to the adoption of ASC 810 on Jan. 1, 2010, income from consolidated asset management funds, net of
noncontrolling interests would have been disclosed on the income statement as follows.       

Net interest
revenue        

Net interest revenue totaled $2.9 billion in 2010, essentially unchanged compared with 2009. Net interest
revenue in 2010 reflects a higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio, net of lost interest on the securities sold and higher average interest-earning assets, primarily offset by narrower spreads.   
  The net interest margin was 1.70% in 2010 compared with 1.82% in 2009. The lower net interest margin in 2010 was driven by lower spreads and higher
interest-earning assets in a lower-rate environment, which more than offset the higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio.      Average interest-earning assets were $172.8 billion in 2010, compared with $161.0 billion in 2009. The increase in 2010 from 2009 was driven by higher client deposit levels in 2010. Average total
securities increased to $60.9 billion in 2010, up from $53.2 billion in 2009, reflecting our strategy to invest in high-quality, government-guaranteed securities.

2009 compared with 2008       Net interest revenue was $2.9 billion in 2009, essentially unchanged from 2008, which included a $489 million charge related to SILO/LILOs. Excluding the SILO/LILO charges, net interest revenue
decreased compared with 2008 as low interest rates resulted in a decline in the value of interest-free balances and lower spreads, offset in part by an increase in average interest-earning assets driven by client deposits.   
  The net interest margin was 1.82% in 2009 compared with 1.89% in 2008, which was negatively impacted by the SILO/LILO charges. The net interest margin,
excluding the SILO/LILO charges, was 2.21% in 2008. In 2009, net interest revenue and the related margin were impacted by persistently low interest rates globally.

BNY
Mellon     11   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Includes fees of $46 million in 2010. Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is
included in interest.      

(b)   
   The tax equivalent adjustment was $19 million in 2010, and is based on the federal statutory tax rate (35%) and applicable state and local taxes.

(c)   
   Average balances and rates are impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(d)   
   Includes the Cayman Islands branch office.      
      
  12     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Includes the impact of the SILO/LILO charge in 2008. Excluding this charge, the domestic offices  non-margin commercial loan rate would have been 3.09%, the
total non-margin loan rate would have been 3.68%, the interest-earning assets rate would have been 3.96% and the net interest margin would have been 2.21%.      

(b)   
   Includes fees of $43 million in 2009 and $35 million in 2008. Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized
on the cash basis, is included in interest.      

(d)   
   Average balances and rates are impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(e)   
   Includes the Cayman Islands branch office.      
         BNY
Mellon     13   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Noninterest expense    

Total noninterest expense increased $640 million, or 7%, compared with 2009, reflecting the impact of
the Acquisitions and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, which impacted virtually all expense categories, higher incentive, litigation, business development and software expenses.   
   Staff expense       Given our mix of
fee-based businesses, which are staffed with high-quality professionals, staff expense comprised approximately 55% of total noninterest expense in 2010, excluding special litigation reserves, support agreement charges, amortization of intangible
assets, restructuring charges and M I expenses.      Staff expense is comprised of:   

compensation expense, which includes:      

base salary expense, primarily driven by headcount;      

the cost of temporary help and overtime; and

severance expense;      

incentive expense, which includes:      

additional compensation earned under a wide range of sales commission and incentive plans designed to reward a combination of individual, business unit
and corporate performance goals; as well as,      

stock-based compensation expense; and      

employee benefit expense, primarily medical benefits, payroll taxes, pension and other retirement benefits.      
  The increase in staff expense compared with 2009 reflects the impact of the Acquisitions and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, higher
incentive expense primarily in the Asset Management business and the annual merit increase, which was effective in the second quarter of 2010. The higher incentive expense primarily resulted from increased earnings, reflecting higher market levels,
increased performance fees and the impact of adjusting compensation to market levels.   

14     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Non-staff expense       Non-staff expense includes certain expenses that vary with the levels of business activity and levels of expensed business investments, fixed infrastructure costs and expenses associated with corporate
activities related to technology, compliance, productivity initiatives and corporate development.      Non-staff expense, excluding special
litigation reserves, support agreement charges, FDIC special assessment, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring charges and M I expense totaled $4.2 billion in 2010 compared with $4.0 billion in 2009. The increase primarily
reflects the impact of the Acquisitions and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition. Also impacting noninterest expense in 2010 compared with 2009 were higher professional, legal and other purchased services, higher software expense, higher
business development expense in support of new business growth, higher volume driven subcustodian expense and higher litigation expense.   
  Given the severity of the economic downturn, the financial services industry has seen a continuing increase in the level of litigation activity. As a
result, we anticipate litigation costs to continue to exceed historic trend levels. For additional information on litigation matters, see Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  For additional information on support agreements, see the  Support agreements  section.   
  For additional information on restructuring charges, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  In 2010, we incurred $139 million of M I expenses related to the Acquisitions and the merger with Mellon Financial.   
  The Financial Services Compensation Scheme ( FSCS ) is the UK s compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorized financial
services firms. It covers business conducted by firms authorized by the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ) in the UK. Due to the insolvency of a UK investment firm in 2009, BNY Mellon and other financial institutions doing business in
the UK expect to incur an additional FSCS levy in 2011. BNY Mellon expects the FSCS levy to slightly increase noninterest expense in 2011.

2009 compared with 2008       Total noninterest expense was $9.5 billion in 2009, a decrease of $2.0 billion or 17% compared with 2008. The decrease primarily reflects lower support agreement charges, strong expense control,
merger-related synergies and a stronger U.S. dollar in 2009. Noninterest expense in 2009 also included the following activity:       

A pre-tax restructuring charge of $139 million related to our global location strategy and $11 million associated with our workforce
reduction program announced in 2008.      

M I expenses of $233 million related to the merger with Mellon Financial comprised of the following: integration/conversion costs
($160 million); personnel related costs ($57 million); and one-time costs ($16 million).      

A special assessment of $61 million paid to the FDIC.            Support agreements       In 2008, we voluntarily entered into agreements under
which we committed to provided support to clients invested in money market mutual funds, cash sweep funds and similar collective funds, managed by our affiliates, as well as clients invested in funds within our securities lending business. These
support agreements were designed to enable these funds to continue to operate at a stable net asset value.      In 2010, we recorded a credit to
support agreement charges of $7 million (pre-tax). This credit was driven by a reduction in the support agreement reserve primarily due to improved pricing of Lehman securities, partially offset by a decision to support five Dreyfus money
market funds primarily for a realized loss which arose from the financial crisis. At Dec. 31, 2010, the value of Lehman securities increased to approximately 23.0% from 19.5% at Dec. 31, 2009.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, our additional potential maximum exposure to support agreements was approximately $116 million, after deducting the reserve,
assuming the securities subject to these agreements being valued at zero and the NAV of the related funds declining below established thresholds. This exposure includes agreements covering Lehman securities ($103 million), as well as other
client support agreements ($13 million).   

BNY
Mellon     15   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
      Income taxes       BNY Mellon recorded an income tax provision, on a continuing operations basis, of $1.0 billion (28.3% effective tax rate) in 2010 compared with an income tax benefit of $1.4 billion (63.2% effective tax
rate) in 2009 and an income tax provision of $491 million (25.2% effective tax rate) in 2008. The 2010 effective tax rate on our continuing operations reflects a higher proportion of income earned in lower-taxed foreign jurisdictions. The 2009
effective tax rate on our loss from continuing operations was higher than the 35% federal statutory rate because of additional tax benefits from a tax loss on mortgages, the final SILO/LILO tax settlement, investment securities losses and a higher
proportion of lower-taxed foreign earnings. Excluding the impact of restructuring charges, M I expenses and special litigation reserves, the effective tax rate was 29.0% in 2010. Excluding the impact of investment securities losses, M I
expenses, FDIC special assessment, restructuring charges and benefits from discrete tax items, the effective tax rate for 2009 was 29.8%. Excluding the impact of investment securities losses, M I expenses, restructuring charges, support
agreement charges and the SILO/LILO/tax settlement, the effective tax rate for 2008 was 32.8%.      We expect the effective tax rate to be
approximately 30-31% in 2011.         Review of businesses       The results of our businesses are presented and analyzed as follows:       

Asset Management      

Wealth Management      

Asset Servicing      

Issuer Services      

Clearing Services      

Treasury Services      

Other         We have an internal
information system that produces performance data for our seven businesses along product and service lines.

For information on the accounting principles of our businesses, the primary types of revenue generated by
each business and how our businesses are presented and analyzed, see Note 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Information
on our businesses is reported on a continuing operations basis for all periods presented. See Note 4 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.   
  The results of our businesses in 2010 were driven by the following factors. Higher market values and new business benefited the Asset and Wealth
management businesses, while increases in the Issuer Services business from higher customer deposit balances and Depositary Receipts revenue were offset by the continued weakness in the structured debt markets. Results in Asset Servicing benefited
from the Acquisitions, higher market values and new business but were negatively impacted by lower foreign currency volatility, as well as narrower spreads and lower loan balances in securities lending. Money market fee waivers also continue to
suppress results in Asset Management, Issuer and Clearing Services, while lower New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) share volumes, down 19% in 2010, continued to impact results in Clearing Services. Compared with 2009, net interest revenue
increased in several businesses, driven by the higher yield related to the restructured investment securities portfolio and a higher level of interest-earning assets, partially offset by low spreads resulting from the lower interest rate
environment.      Noninterest expense increased compared with 2009 in Asset Servicing and Clearing Services primarily as a result of the
Acquisitions. Noninterest expense also increased compared with 2009 in Asset Management, reflecting higher incentive expense resulting from increased performance fees and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition.   
  Net securities gains (losses) and restructuring charges are recorded in the Other business. In addition, M I expenses are a corporate level item and
are therefore recorded in the Other business.      The following table presents the value of certain market indices at period end and on an
average basis.   

16     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Period end.      
    
   On a daily average basis, the S P 500 Index and the FTSE 100 Index increased 20% in 2010 versus 2009.
The period end S P 500 Index increased 13% at Dec. 31, 2010, versus Dec. 31, 2009. The period end FTSE 100 Index increased 9% at Dec. 31, 2010, versus Dec. 31, 2009. The period end NASDAQ Composite Index increased 17% at Dec. 31, 2010, versus
Dec. 31, 2009. NYSE and NASDAQ share volumes decreased 19% and 2% respectively in 2010 compared with 2009.      The changes in the value of market
indices primarily impact fee revenue in the Asset and Wealth Management businesses and to a lesser extent our securities servicing businesses.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, using the S P 500 Index as a proxy for the equity markets, we estimate that a 100 point change in the value of the S P 500
Index, sustained for one year, would impact fee revenue by approximately 1 to 2% and fully diluted earnings per

common share on a continuing operations basis by $0.06-$0.07. If global equity markets over or under perform the S P 500 Index, the impact to fee revenue and earnings per share could be
different.      The current low interest rate environment continues to adversely impact our net interest revenue and corresponding net interest
margin, as well as money market mutual fund and money market fund related distribution fees. At Dec. 31, 2010, we estimate that an immediate 100 basis point increase in overnight interest rates from current rates would increase annual pre-tax income
by approximately $450 million. Both fee revenue and net interest revenue would benefit from this increase.      The following consolidating
schedules show the contribution of our businesses to our overall profitability.   

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue and income before taxes for 2010 includes income from consolidated asset management funds of $226 million net of income attributable
to noncontrolling interests of $59 million. The net of these income statement line items of $167 million is included above in fee and other revenue.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      
 
         BNY
Mellon     17   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

Asset and Wealth Management Group       Asset and Wealth Management fee revenue is dependent on the overall level and mix of AUM and the management fees expressed in basis points (one-hundredth of one percent) charged for managing those assets.
Assets under management were a record $1.17 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010, an increase of 5% compared with $1.12 trillion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase primarily reflects higher market values and new business, offset in part by money market
net outflows.   
 
   The overall level of AUM for a given period is determined by:   

the beginning level of AUM;      

the net flows of new assets during the period resulting from new business wins and existing client enrichments reduced by the loss of clients and
withdrawals; and      

the impact of market price appreciation or depreciation, the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures and foreign exchange rates.

18     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
  
   These components are shown in the changes in market value of AUM table below. The mix of AUM is determined
principally by client asset      allocation decisions among equities, fixed income, alternative investments and overlay, and money market products.
The trend of this mix is shown in the AUM at period end, by product type, table below.      Managed equity assets typically generate higher
percentage fees than money market and fixed-income assets. Also, actively managed assets typically generate higher management fees than indexed or passively managed assets of the same type.      Management fees are typically subject to fee schedules based on the overall level of assets managed for a single client or by individual asset class and

style. This is most prevalent for institutional assets where amounts we manage for individual clients are typically large.      A key driver of organic growth in asset and wealth management fees is the amount of net new AUM flows. Overall market conditions are also key drivers, with a significant long-term economic driver being
the growth of global financial assets.      Performance fees, included in asset and wealth management fee revenue on the income statement, are
earned in the Asset and Wealth Management Group. These fees are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance.

(a)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(a)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

BNY
Mellon     19   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Asset Management business        

(a)   
   The pre-tax operating margin, excluding amortization of intangible assets, support agreement charges and investment securities gains (losses) was 29% for both 2010
and 2009.          Business description       BNY Mellon Asset Management is the umbrella organization for our affiliated investment management boutiques and is responsible, through various subsidiaries, for U.S. and non-U.S. retail, intermediary and
institutional distribution of investment management and related services. The investment management boutiques offer a broad range of equity, fixed income, cash and alternative/overlay products. In addition to the investment subsidiaries, BNY Mellon
Asset Management includes BNY Mellon Asset Management International, which is responsible for the distribution of investment management products internationally, and the Dreyfus Corporation and its affiliates, which are responsible for U.S.
distribution of retail mutual funds, separate accounts

and annuities. We are one of the world s largest asset managers with a top-10 position in both the U.S. and Europe and 11   th    position globally.      The results of the Asset Management business are mainly driven by the period end and average levels of assets managed as well as the mix of those assets, as previously shown. Results for this business are
also impacted by sales of fee-based products. In addition, performance fees may be generated when the investment performance exceeds various benchmarks and satisfies other criteria. Expenses in this business are mainly driven by staffing costs,
incentives, distribution and servicing expense, and product distribution costs.      In July 2010, the China Securities Regulatory Commission
( CSRC ) authorized BNY Mellon and Western Securities to establish a joint venture fund management company in China. The new company, BNY Mellon Western Fund Management Company Limited, is owned by BNY Mellon (49%) and Western
Securities (51%). BNY Mellon Western Fund Management manages domestic Chinese securities in a range of local retail fund products. BNY Mellon Western Fund Management also focuses on leveraging distribution within the Chinese banking and securities
sectors.      In November 2009, we acquired Insight, which specializes in liability-driven investment solutions, active fixed income and
alternative investments. The acquisition of Insight impacted fee revenue and noninterest expense in 2010 compared with 2009.       Review of
financial results       In 2010, Asset Management had pre-tax income of $561 million compared with $364 million in 2009. Excluding
amortization of intangible assets and support agreement charges, pre-tax income was $781 million in 2010 compared with $601 million in 2009. Results for 2010 reflect improved market values, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition
and net new business, partially offset by higher incentive expenses.      Asset and wealth management revenue in the Asset Management business was
$2.4 billion in 2010 compared with $2.1 billion in 2009. The increase reflects improved market values, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, higher performance fees and net new business, partially offset by a reduction in money market
fees due to higher fee waivers and money market outflows.   

20     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The Asset Management business generated 500 basis points of positive operating leverage in 2010 compared
with 2009, excluding intangible amortization and support agreement charges.      In 2010, 44% of asset and wealth management fees in the Asset
Management business were generated from managed mutual fund fees. These fees are based on the daily average net assets of each fund and the basis point management fee paid by that fund. Managed mutual fund fee revenue was $1.1 billion in both 2010
and 2009.      Distribution and servicing fees were $201 million in 2010 compared with $279 million in 2009. The decrease resulted from
lower money market assets under management and higher redemption fees in prior periods.      Other fee revenue was $29 million in 2010
compared with a loss of $147 million in 2009 and includes $9 million of securities gains in 2010 and $78 million of securities losses in 2009. The improvement also includes a higher value of seed capital investments in 2010.
     Revenue generated in the Asset Management business includes 51% from non-U.S. sources in 2010 and 42% in 2009. The increase is primarily due
to the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition.      Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets and support agreement
charges) was $1.9 billion in 2010 compared with $1.7 billion in 2009. The increase primarily resulted from higher incentives expense resulting from an increase in performance fees, as well as the impact of adjusting compensation to market levels,
and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition.      Support agreement charges in 2010 primarily reflect a decision to support five Dreyfus
money market funds primarily for a realized loss which arose from the financial crisis. The support agreement charges in 2009 related to the final charge for four Dreyfus money market funds support agreements entered into in 2008.   
   2009 compared with 2008       Income before
taxes was $364 million in 2009, compared with $228 million in 2008. Income before taxes (excluding amortization of intangible assets and support agreement charges) was $601 million in 2009 compared with $818 million in 2008. Fee
and other revenue decreased $547 million, primarily due to the

weakness in global equity market values for most of 2009, outflows of money market investments, higher fee waivers, a stronger U.S. dollar and the divestiture of three small investment boutiques
in 2009. The decrease was partially offset by the impact of the Insight acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2009 and changes in the market value of seed capital investments. Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets and
support agreement charges) decreased $373 million in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to staff reductions, expense management, the consolidation of investment processes and a stronger U.S. dollar.   
   Wealth Management business        
     Business description       In the Wealth Management business, we offer a full array of
investment management, wealth and estate planning and private banking solutions to help clients protect, grow and transfer their wealth. Clients include high-net-worth individuals and families, charitable gift programs, endowments and foundations
and related entities. Client assets reached $166 billion at year-end, and BNY Mellon Wealth Management was ranked as the nation s 8th largest wealth manager and 3rd largest private banker. We serve our clients through an expansive network of
office sites in 17 states and 4 countries, including 16 of the top 25 domestic wealth markets.   

BNY
Mellon     21   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The results of the Wealth Management business are driven by the level and mix of assets managed and under
custody, the level of activity in client accounts and private banking volumes. Net interest revenue is determined by loan and deposit volumes and the interest rate spread between customer rates and internal funds transfer rates on loans and
deposits. Expenses of this business are driven by staff expense in the investment management, sales, service and support groups.      On Sept. 1,
2010, we acquired I3 Advisors of Toronto, an independent wealth advisory company with more than C$3.8 billion under advisement at acquisition.   
   Review of financial results       Income
before taxes was $204 million in 2010 compared with $188 million in 2009. Income before taxes (excluding amortization of intangible assets) was $240 million in 2010 compared with $233 million in 2009. Results compared with 2009
reflect growth in fee revenue and net interest revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.      Total fee and other revenue was
$590 million in 2010 compared with $578 million in 2009. The increase was driven by higher equity market levels and the acquisition of I3 Wealth Advisors.      Client assets under management and custody were $166 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, an increase of $12 billion, or 8%, compared with $154 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase was driven by higher equity
market levels and the acquisition of I3 Wealth Advisors.      Net interest revenue increased $33 million in 2010 compared with 2009,
primarily due to higher deposit levels, growth in high-quality loans and the higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio, partially offset by spread compression on deposits. Average deposit balances increased $1.4 billion, or
21%, while average loan balances increased $630 million, or 11%.   
 
   Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets) increased $37 million compared with
2009, due to higher compensation, marketing, litigation and FDIC expenses and the acquisition of I3 Wealth Advisors.       2009 compared with
2008       Income before taxes was $188 million in 2009 compared with $185 million in 2008. Income before taxes (excluding
amortization of intangible assets and support agreement charges), decreased $21 million. Fee and other revenue decreased $46 million due to lower average equity market levels and lower capital market fees, partially offset by organic
growth. Net interest revenue decreased $6 million as a result of deposit spread tightening. Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets and support agreement charges) decreased $32 million due to workforce reductions,
strong expense control and the impact of merger-related synergies.       Institutional Services Group    
  We are one of the leading global securities servicing providers, with assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2010 of $25.0 trillion, an
increase of 12% from $22.3 trillion at Dec. 31, 2009, primarily reflecting the Acquisitions, as well as higher market values and new business. Equity securities constituted 32% and fixed-income securities constituted 68% of the assets under custody
and administration at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 29% equity securities and 71% fixed income securities at Dec. 31, 2009. The shift in composition was due primarily to an increase in equity market valuations. Assets under custody and administration
at Dec. 31, 2010, consisted of assets related to custody, mutual funds, and corporate trust businesses of $20.1 trillion, broker-dealer services assets of $3.2 trillion and all other assets of $1.7 trillion.   
  Market value of securities on loan at Dec. 31, 2010, increased to $278 billion from $247 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase reflects higher asset
valuations and the GIS acquisition, partially offset by lower government volumes.   

22     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   On July 1, 2010, we completed the acquisition of GIS and on Aug. 2, 2010, we completed the
acquisition of BAS. See the  2010 events  section for additional information. These acquisitions were integrated into the Institutional Services businesses.       

(a)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(c)   
   Represents the total amount of securities on loan, both cash and non-cash, managed by the Asset Servicing business.      
    
    Asset Servicing business        
     Business description       The Asset Servicing business includes global custody, global fund
services, securities lending, outsourcing,

performance and risk analytics, alternative investment services, securities clearance, collateral management, derivative services and credit-related services and other linked revenues,
principally foreign exchange. Clients include corporate and public retirement funds, foundations and endowments and global financial institutions including banks, broker-dealers, asset managers, insurance companies and central banks.   
  The results of the Asset Servicing business are driven by a number of factors which include: the level of transaction activity; the range of services
provided, including custody, accounting, fund administration, daily valuations, performance measurement and risk analytics, securities lending, and investment manager backoffice outsourcing; and the market value of assets under administration and
custody. Market interest rates impact both securities lending revenue and the earnings on client deposit balances. Broker-dealer fees depend on the level of activity in the fixed income and equity markets and the financing needs of customers, which
are typically higher when the equity and fixed-income markets are active. Also, tri-party repo arrangements remain a key revenue driver in broker-dealer services.      Our Asset Servicing business also generates foreign exchange trading revenues, which are influenced by the volume of client transactions and the spread realized on these transactions, market volatility in
major currencies, the level of cross-border assets held in custody for clients, the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients. As part of our foreign exchange
business, we offer a standing instruction program that provides a cost-effective and efficient option, to our clients, for handling a high volume of small transactions or difficult to execute transactions in restricted and

BNY
Mellon     23   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

emerging markets currencies. Our foreign exchange platform provides custody clients and their investment managers an end-to-end solution that transfers to BNY Mellon much of the burden, risk and
infrastructure cost associated with foreign exchange transactions. Custody clients and their investment managers have the option of executing their transactions pursuant to the standing instruction program, through any of the other foreign exchange
trading options made available by BNY Mellon, or with another foreign exchange provider.      Business expenses are principally driven by staffing
levels and technology investments.      We are one of the leading global securities servicing providers, with a total of $25.0 trillion of assets
under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2010. We continue to maintain our number one ranking in two major global custody surveys. We are the largest custodian for U.S. corporate and public pension plans and we service 44% of the top 50
endowments. We are a leading custodian in the UK and service 25% of UK pensions. European asset servicing continues to grow across all products, reflecting significant cross-border investment and capital flow.   
  We are one of the largest providers of fund services in the world, servicing $5.6 trillion in assets. We are the second largest administrator in the
alternative investment services industry based on assets. We service 44% of the funds in the U.S. exchange-traded funds marketplace.      In
securities lending, we are one of the largest lenders of U.S. Treasury securities and depositary receipts and service a lending pool of more than $2.6 trillion in 31 markets. We are one of the largest global providers of performance and risk
analytics, with $8.9 trillion in assets under measurement.      BNY Mellon is a leader in both global securities and U.S. Government securities
clearance. At Dec. 31, 2010, we cleared and settled equity and fixed income transactions in over 100 markets and handled most of the transactions cleared through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 14 of the 18 primary dealers. We are an
industry leader in collateral management, servicing $1.8 trillion in tri-party balances worldwide at Dec 31, 2010.       Review of financial
results       Income before taxes was $1.3 billion in both 2010 and 2009. Income before taxes, excluding amortization of

intangible assets and support agreement charges, was $1.3 billion in both 2010 and 2009. Revenue in 2010 was impacted by the Acquisitions, higher market values and new business, primarily offset
by an increase in noninterest expenses driven by the Acquisitions, higher volume-driven expenses and expense incurred to support business growth. Asset servicing won $1.5 trillion of new business in 2010.   
  Revenue generated in the Asset Servicing business includes 40% from non-U.S. sources in 2010 compared with 37% in 2009.   
  Securities servicing fees increased $589 million in 2010 compared with 2009, driven by the impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values, new
business and asset inflows from existing clients.      Securities lending revenue decreased $115 million compared to 2009. The decrease
primarily reflects lower volumes, driven by a lower demand for U.S. Government securities, and lower spreads. Spreads decreased 44% and volumes decreased 4% compared with 2009.      Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased $100 million compared with 2009, primarily reflecting lower volatility partially offset by higher volumes and new business.   
  Net interest revenue decreased $30 million compared with 2009, primarily driven by narrower spreads on deposits, offset in part by the higher yield
related to the restructured investment securities portfolio and higher deposit levels.      Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of
intangible assets and support agreement charges) increased $417 million compared with 2009. The increase in expenses primarily reflects the impact of the Acquisitions, higher sub-custodian fees resulting from higher asset values and transaction
volumes, higher professional, legal and other purchased services and increased expenses in support of business growth.       2009 compared with
2008       Income before taxes was $1.3 billion in 2009, compared with $1.7 billion in 2008. Income before taxes (excluding amortization of
intangible assets and support agreement charges) was $1.3 billion in 2009 compared with $2.3 billion in 2008. Fee and other revenue decreased $1.0 billion, primarily due to lower

24     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

securities lending revenue, lower foreign exchange and other trading revenue, lower market values for most of 2009 and a stronger U.S. dollar, partially offset by new business. Net interest
revenue decreased $192 million, primarily driven by lower spreads. Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets and support agreement charges) decreased $258 million, primarily due to lower incentive expense, strong
overall expense control and a stronger U.S. dollar.       Issuer Services business    
   
     Business description       The Issuer Services business provides a diverse array of products
and services to global fixed income and equity issuers.      BNY Mellon is the leading provider of corporate trust services for all major debt
categories across conventional, structured finance and specialty debt. BNY Mellon services $12.0 trillion in outstanding debt from 61 locations, in 20 countries. We serve as depositary for 1,363 sponsored American and global depositary receipt
programs, acting in partnership with leading companies from 68 countries. In addition

to top-ranked transfer agency services, BNY Mellon Shareowner Services offers a comprehensive suite of equity solutions, including record-keeping and corporate actions processing,
demutualizations, direct investment, dividend reinvestment, proxy solicitation, escrow services and employee stock plan administration.      Fee
revenue in the Issuer Services business depends on:       

the volume and type of issuance of fixed income securities;      

depositary receipts issuance and cancellation volume;      

corporate actions impacting depositary receipts; and      

stock transfer, corporate actions and equity trading volumes.         Expenses in the Issuer Services business are driven by staff, equipment, and space required to support the services provided by the business.       Role of BNY Mellon, as a trustee, for mortgage-backed securitizations       BNY Mellon acts as
trustee and document custodian for certain mortgage-backed security ( MBS ) securitization trusts. The role of trustee for MBS securitizations is limited. Our primary role as trustee is to calculate and distribute monthly bond payments to
bondholders. As a document custodian, we are required to notify the mortgage service providers and the seller of the loan whether the files contain the mortgage note and other required documents. BNY Mellon, either as document custodian or trustee,
does not receive mortgage underwriting files (the files that contain information related to the credit worthiness of the borrower). As trustee or custodian, we have no responsibility or liability for the quality of the portfolio; we are liable only
for performance of the limited duties as described above and in the trust document.       Review of financial results    
  Income before taxes increased $45 million in 2010 compared with 2009. The results reflect higher net interest revenue and Depositary Receipts
revenue, partially offset by weakness in the structured debt markets.      Revenue generated in the Issuer Services business includes 44% from
non-U.S. sources in 2010 compared with 40% in 2009.   

BNY
Mellon     25   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Total fee and other revenue decreased $41 million in 2010 compared with 2009, as a result of:

Corporate Trust revenue   Decreased due to continued weakness in the structured debt markets and lower money market related distribution fees due
to the low interest rate environment.      

Depositary Receipts revenue   Increased due to higher issuance, corporate action and servicing fees as well as new business. In 2010, Depositary
Receipts issuances exceeded cancellations by $2.2 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion from 2009.      

Shareowner Services revenue   Decreased due to lower transfer agency and corporate action fees.      
  Net interest revenue increased $135 million in 2010 compared with 2009, driven by a higher yield related to the restructured investment securities
portfolio and increased deposits. Average deposits were $47.2 billion in 2010 compared with $45.9 billion in 2009.      Noninterest expense
(excluding amortization of intangible assets) increased $47 million in 2010 compared with 2009 driven by higher FDIC expense, professional, legal and other purchased services expense, subcustodian expenses and the anticipated settlement of a
withholding tax matter with the Internal Revenue Service.       2009 compared with 2008    
  Income before taxes was $1.1 billion in both 2009 and 2008. Fee and other revenue decreased $242 million, reflecting lower global issuances and
lower overall corporate actions that were partially offset by the benefit of new business. Net interest revenue increased $58 million, primarily driven by higher customer deposit balances primarily in Corporate Trust. Noninterest expense
(excluding amortization of intangible assets) decreased $111 million reflecting lower staff expense due to a 21% decrease in incentive expense and credit monitoring charges related to lost tapes recorded in 2008.

Clearing Services business        
     Business description       Our Clearing Services business consists of Pershing s global
clearing and execution business in over 60 markets. Located in 21 offices worldwide, Pershing provides operational support, trading services, flexible technology, an expansive array of investment solutions, including managed accounts, mutual funds
and cash management, practice management support and service excellence. Pershing takes a consultative approach, working behind the scenes for its more than 100,000 investment professionals and 1,500 customers who represent approximately
five million individual and institutional investors. Pershing serves a broad array of customers including financial intermediaries, broker-dealers, independent registered investment advisors and hedge fund managers.   
  Pershing is the enterprise name for Pershing, Pershing Advisor Solutions, Pershing Prime Services, iNautix USA, Albridge Solutions, Coates Analytics, the
Lockwood companies, and international affiliates in Canada, Ireland, the UK, India and Singapore.   

26     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Revenue in this business includes transactional revenue from trade execution and clearance for
broker-dealer services, registered investment advisor services and prime brokerage services, which are primarily driven by retail and institutional investor trading volumes. Revenue is also generated from securities lending and investing cash
balances held for investors.      A substantial amount of revenue in this business is also generated from non-transactional activities, such as:
providing services to mutual funds and money market funds, asset gathering, retirement account administration; and other services.      Business
expenses are driven by staff, technology investment, equipment and space required to support the services provided by the business and the cost of execution and clearance and custody of securities.   
   Review of financial results       Income
before taxes was $382 million in 2010 compared with $509 million in 2009. The decrease reflects lower trading volumes, lower cash management related distribution fees and higher expenses related to new business conversions. Revenue
comparisons were impacted by historically low interest rates, which created higher levels of cash management fee waivers and lower spreads on interest bearing balances.      Total fee and other revenue decreased $38 million in 2010 compared with 2009. The decrease reflects a decline in trading volumes and lower cash management related distribution fees, partially offset
by the impact of the GIS acquisition and higher mutual fund balances and positions. Trading volumes on the NYSE were down 19% in 2010 compared with 2009.      Net interest revenue increased $28 million compared with 2009, reflecting the higher yield related to the restructured investment securities portfolio and higher loan volume, partially offset by
lower spreads. Average margin loans were up 36% in 2010. This increase was driven by increased prime brokerage and broker-dealer activity.   
  Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets) increased $115 million in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily reflecting the impact
of the GIS acquisition, new business conversions,

including the first phase of the conversion of a large global wealth management firm, and the impact of adjusting compensation to market levels.   
  In the fourth quarter of 2010, we completed the first phase of the conversion of a large global wealth management firm. We expect to complete the final
phase of the conversion in the first quarter of 2011 and anticipate that the revenue related to this new business will exceed expenses in the second quarter of 2011.       2009 compared with 2008       Income before taxes was $509 million in 2009 compared with
$483 million in 2008. Total fee and other revenue decreased 8%, reflecting lower cash management related distribution fees and trading volumes. Net interest revenue increased $19 million reflecting wider spreads. Noninterest expense
(excluding amortization of intangible assets) decreased $110 million reflecting lower compensation costs and strong expense control.       Treasury
Services business        

BNY
Mellon     27   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Business description       The Treasury Services business includes cash management solutions, trade finance services, international payment services, global markets, capital markets and liquidity services.   
  Treasury services revenue is directly influenced by the volume of transactions and payments processed, loan levels, types of service provided, net
interest revenue earned from deposit balances generated by activity across our business operations and the value of the credit derivatives portfolio. Treasury services revenue is indirectly influenced by other factors, including market volatility in
major currencies and the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments, as well as other transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients.      Business expenses are driven by staff, equipment and space required to support the services provided, as well as operating services in support of volume increases.   
  With a network of more than 2,000 correspondent financial institutions, our Treasury Services group delivers high-quality performance in global payments,
trade services, cash management, capital markets, foreign exchange and derivatives. We help clients in their efforts to optimize cash flow, manage liquidity and make payments more efficiently around the world in more than 100 currencies. We are the
fourth largest Fedwire and CHIPS payment processor, processing about 160,000 global payments daily totaling an average of $1.6 trillion.      Our
corporate lending strategy is to focus on those clients and industries that are major users of securities servicing and treasury services. Revenue from our lending activities is primarily driven by loan levels and spreads over funding costs.

Review of financial results       Income before taxes was $704 million in 2010, compared with $676 million in 2009. Revenue from the GIS acquisition and strong expense control were partially offset by lower money market fees and
lower financing-related revenue.      The Treasury Services business generated 200 basis points of positive operating leverage in 2010 compared
with 2009, excluding amortization of intangible assets.      Total fee and other revenue increased $6 million in 2010 compared with 2009. The
increase was driven by the impact of the GIS acquisition and an improvement in the mark-to-market adjustment on credit default swaps, partially offset by lower money market fees and lower global payment fees.   
  The increase in net interest revenue compared with 2009 primarily reflects a higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio partially
offset by lower average loan balances reflecting our strategy to reduce targeted risk exposure.      Noninterest expense (excluding amortization
of intangible assets) in 2010 was essentially unchanged compared with 2009, as the impact of the GIS acquisition was primarily offset by strong expense control.       2009 compared with 2008       Income before taxes was $676 million in 2009, compared with
$855 million in 2008. Total fee and other revenue decreased $121 million, reflecting mark-to-market losses on the credit derivatives portfolio used to economically hedge loans. Net interest revenue decreased $117 million compared with
2008, reflecting lower loan levels and tighter spreads resulting from the lower interest rate environment in 2009. Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets) decreased $57 million, primarily due to merger-related
synergies and strong expense control.   

28     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Other Businesses        
 
   Business description       On Jan. 15, 2010,
we completed the sale of Mellon United National Bank ( MUNB ), our national bank located in Florida. We applied discontinued operations accounting to this business. This business was formerly included in the Other businesses group.
     The Other business primarily includes:       

the results of the lease financing portfolio;      

corporate treasury activities, including our investment securities portfolio;      

33.2% equity interest in BNY ConvergEx Group; and      

business exits and corporate overhead.         Revenue primarily reflects:       

net interest revenue from the lease financing portfolio;      

interest income remaining after transfer pricing allocations;      

fee and other revenue from corporate and bank-owned life insurance; and      

gains (losses) associated with the valuation of investment securities and other assets.

Expenses include:       

M I expenses;      

restructuring charges;      

direct expenses supporting lease financing, investing and funding activities; and      

certain corporate overhead not directly attributable to the operations of other businesses.      
   Review of financial results       Income
before taxes was a loss of $615 million in 2010 compared with a loss of $6.4 billion in 2009.      The Other business includes the following
activity in 2010:       

net securities gains of $15 million;      

lease residual gains of $69 million;      

a provision for credit losses of $9 million;      

a $164 million charge related to special litigation reserves taken in the first quarter of 2010; and      

M I expenses of $139 million related to the Acquisitions and the Mellon Financial merger.      
   2009 compared with 2008       Income before
taxes was a loss of $6.4 billion in 2009 compared with a loss of $2.7 billion in 2008. Total fee and other revenue decreased primarily due to net securities losses related to the restructured investment securities portfolio recorded in 2009. Net
interest revenue increased $337 million primarily reflecting the SILO/LILO charge recorded in 2008. The provision for credit losses increased $227 million in 2009 reflecting downgrades in the insurance, media and residential mortgage
portfolios.         International operations       Our primary international activities consist of securities servicing, asset management and global payment services.      Our clients include some of the world s largest asset managers, insurance companies, corporations, financial intermediaries, local authorities and pension funds. Through our global network of
offices, we have developed a deep understanding of local requirements and cultural needs and we pride ourselves in providing dedicated service through our multilingual sales, marketing and client service teams.

BNY
Mellon     29   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   We conduct business through subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices in 36 countries. We have
operational centers based in Brussels, Cork, Dublin, Navan, Wexford, Luxembourg, Singapore, Wroclaw, throughout the United Kingdom including London, Manchester, Brentwood, Edinburgh and Poole, and Chennai and Pune in India.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, we had approximately 9,000 employees in Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ), approximately 7,000 employees in the
Asia-Pacific region ( APAC ) and approximately 700 employees in other global locations, primarily Brazil.      At
Dec. 31, 2010, our cross-border assets under custody and administration were $9.2 trillion compared with $8.8 trillion at Dec. 31, 2009. This increase primarily reflects higher market values as the FTSE 100 and MSCI EAFE      indices increased 9% and 5%, respectively.      In Europe, we maintain a significant presence in the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directives ( UCITS ) servicing field. In Ireland, BNY Mellon is the largest
administrator of third-party assets and largest provider of trustee services. In Luxembourg, BNY Mellon is a top 10 ranked fund administrator. We provide global clearance services in more than 100 markets and service $1.8 trillion in daily tri-party
balances spanning 40 markets.      In July the acquisition of GIS expanded our securities servicing and alternative investment services businesses
worldwide and enhanced our managed account platform, performance reporting capabilities and business intelligence tools for broker-dealer and registered investment advisor clients.      In August, we completed the acquisition of BAS which expanded BNY Mellon s existing capabilities to include German domestic custody and KAG fund administration.   
  We serve as the depositary for 1,363 sponsored American and global depositary receipt programs, acting in partnership with leading companies from 68
countries. As the world s leading provider of corporate trust and agency services, BNY Mellon services $12.0 trillion in outstanding debt from 61 locations, in 20 countries, for clients including governments and their agencies, multi-national
corporations, financial institutions and other entities that access the global debt markets. We leverage our global footprint and expertise to deliver customized

and market-driven solutions across a full range of debt issuer and related investor services.      BNY Mellon Asset Management operates on a multi-boutique model, bringing investors the skills of our specialist boutique asset managers, which together manage investments spanning virtually all asset
classes.      We are one of the largest global asset managers, ranking 11th in the institutional marketplace and are the 6th largest asset manager
active in Europe. We are also a market leader in the field of liability-driven investments.      In July we created, with Western Securities, a
joint venture fund management company in China. The new company, BNY Mellon Western Fund Management Company Limited manages domestic Chinese securities in a range of local retail fund products.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, approximately 34% of BNY Mellon s AUM were managed by our international operations, compared with 32% in 2009. The increase
primarily resulted from net long-term inflows and improved market values.      We process 160,000 global payments daily, totaling an average of
$1.6 trillion. With payment services provided in more than 100 currencies through more than 2,000 correspondent bank accounts worldwide, we are a recognized leader in receivables and payables processing.   
  We have over 50 years of experience providing trade and cash services to financial institutions and central banks outside of the U.S. In addition, we
offer a broad range of servicing and fiduciary products to financial institutions, corporations and central banks depending on the state of market development. In emerging markets, we lead with global payments and issuer services, introducing other
products as the markets mature. For more established markets, our focus is on global, not local, securities servicing products and alternative investments.      We are also a leading provider and major market maker in the area of foreign exchange and interest-rate risk management services, dealing in over 100 currencies.   
  Our financial results, as well as our level of assets under custody and administration, and management, are impacted by the translation of financial
results   

30     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

denominated in foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar. We are primarily impacted by activities denominated in the British pound, and to a lesser extent, the Euro. If the U.S. dollar depreciates
against these currencies, the translation impact is a higher level of fee revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense and assets under management and custody and administration. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar appreciates, the translated
levels of fee revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense and assets under management and custody and administration will be lower.       
 
  International clients accounted for 36% of revenue in 2010 compared with 53% in 2009. Excluding the impact of the net investment securities losses,
international clients accounted for 36% of revenue in 2010 compared with 32% in 2009. Income from international continuing operations was $1.5 billion in 2010 compared with $1.1 billion in 2009.   
  In 2010, revenues from EMEA were $3.5 billion, compared with $2.8 billion in 2009 and $3.6 billion in 2008. Revenues from EMEA were up 24% for 2010
compared to 2009. The increase in 2010 primarily reflects improved market values and the acquisitions of Insight and BAS, partially offset by a stronger U.S. dollar in 2010. Revenue from EMEA in 2010 was spread across most of our businesses. Asset
Servicing generated 44%, Asset Management 27%, Issuer Services 19%, Treasury Services 6% and Clearing Services 4% of revenues from EMEA. Income from continuing operations from EMEA was $916 million

in 2010 compared with $667 million in 2009 and $859 million in 2008.      Revenues
from APAC were $745 million in 2010 compared with $669 million in 2009 and $796 million in 2008. The increase in APAC revenue in 2010 resulted from higher depositary receipts revenue and net interest revenue. Revenue from APAC in 2010
was generated by the following businesses: Asset Management 27%, Treasury Services 27%, Asset Servicing 23%, Issuer Services 21% and Clearing Services 2%. Income from continuing operations from APAC was $295 million in 2010 compared with
$222 million in 2009 and $247 million in 2008.      Income from continuing operations from EMEA and APAC were driven by the same factors
affecting revenue. In addition, income from continuing operations from EMEA in 2010 compared with 2009, and 2009 compared with 2008, was negatively impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar versus the Euro and British pound. For additional
information regarding our International operations, see Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Cross-border risk    
  Foreign assets are subject to general risks attendant to the conduct of business in each foreign country, including economic uncertainties and each
foreign government s regulations. In addition, our foreign assets may be affected by changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors. Cross-border outstandings include loans, acceptances,
interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest- bearing investments, and other monetary assets which are denominated in U.S. dollars or other non-local currency. Also included are local currency outstandings not hedged or funded by local
borrowings.   

BNY
Mellon     31   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The table below shows our cross-border outstandings for the last three years where cross-border exposure
exceeds 1.00% of total assets (denoted with  * ) or 0.75% of total assets (denoted with  ** ).       

(a)   
   At Dec. 31, 2010, exposures to Spain and Ireland totaled $1.7 billion and included $481 million in investment securities and $1.1 billion in short-term
placements.      

(b)   
   Primarily short-term placements.      

(c)   
   Excludes assets of consolidated asset management funds.      

(d)   
   Primarily European floating rate notes.      
    
    Emerging markets exposure       At Dec. 31, 2010, our emerging markets exposures, totaled approximately $9.1 billion. These exposures consisted primarily of interest-bearing deposits with banks and short-term loans, and a
$347 million investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited ( Wing Hang ), which is located in Hong Kong. This compares with emerging market exposure of $7.9 billion in 2009, including an investment of $316 million in Wing Hang.
        Critical accounting estimates       Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under  Summary of Significant

Accounting and Reporting Policies . Our more critical accounting estimates are those related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments, fair value of
financial instruments and derivatives, other-than-temporary impairment, goodwill and other intangibles, and pension accounting. Further information on policies related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments
can be found under  Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Further information on the valuation of derivatives and securities where quoted market prices are
not available can be found under  Fair value measurement  in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on policies related to goodwill and intangible assets can be found in  Goodwill and

32     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

intangible assets  in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information on pensions can be found in  Employee benefit plans  in Note 20 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments    
  In 2010, we expanded the description of the elements of the allowance for loan losses and lending related commitments from three to four. This change did
not impact the methodology used to calculate the allowance or provision for credit losses. The four elements of the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments consist of: (1) an allowance for impaired credits
(nonaccrual loans over $1 million); (2) an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits; (3) an allowance for residential mortgage loans (previously included in element 2); and (4) an unallocated allowance based
on general economic conditions and risk factors in our individual markets for our current portfolio. Further discussion of the four elements can be found in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  It is difficult to quantify the impact of changes in forecasts on our allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments.
Nevertheless, we believe the following discussion may enable investors to better understand the variables that drive the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments.   
  The allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in our
credit portfolio. This evaluation process is subject to numerous estimates and judgments. The portion of the allowance related to impaired credits is based on the present value of expected future cash flows; however, as a practical expedient, it may
be based on the credit s observable market price. Additionally, it may be based on the fair value of collateral if the credit is collateral dependent. The allowance for higher risk-rated and pass-rated credits are assigned probability of
default ratings based on internal ratings after analyzing the credit quality of each borrower/counterparty. Our internal ratings are generally consistent with external ratings agencies  default databases. Loss given default ratings are driven
by the collateral, structure, and seniority of each individual asset and are consistent with external loss given default/recovery databases. The portion of the allowance for residential mortgage loans is

determined by segregating six mortgage pools into delinquency periods ranging from current through foreclosure with the delinquency periods assigned a probability of default. A specific loss
given default based on a combination of external loss data from third party databases and internal loss history is assigned for each mortgage pool. For each pool, the expected loss is calculated using the above factors. The resulting expected loss
factor is applied against the loan balance to determine the reserve held for each pool. Changes in the estimates of probability of default, risk ratings, loss given default/recovery rates, and cash flows could have a direct impact on the allocated
allowance for loan losses.      To the extent actual results differ from forecasts or management s judgment, the allowance for credit losses
may be greater or less than future charge-offs.      The credit rating assigned to each credit is another significant variable in determining the
allowance. If each credit were rated one grade better, the allowance would have decreased by $75 million, while if each credit were rated one grade worse, the allowance would have increased by $111 million. Similarly, if the loss given
default were one rating worse, the allowance would have increased by $32 million, while if the loss given default were one rating better, the allowance would have decreased by $54 million. For impaired credits, if the net carrying value of
the loans was 10% higher or lower, the allowance would have decreased or increased by $2 million, respectively.      A key variable in
determining the allowance is management s judgment in determining the size of the unallocated allowance. At Dec. 31, 2010, the unallocated allowance was $116 million, or 20% of the total allowance. At Dec. 31, 2010, if the unallocated
allowance, as a percentage of the total allowance, was 5% higher or lower, the allowance would have increased by approximately $38 million or decreased by approximately $34 million, respectively.   
   Fair value of financial instruments       We adopted
guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement  included in ASC 820 and  Fair Value Option  included in ASC 825 effective Jan. 1, 2008. ASC 820 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures
about assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The standard also established a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date.

BNY
Mellon     33   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Effective Jan. 1, 2009, we adopted guidance related to  Determining Fair Value When the Volume and
Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly , included in ASC 820. This ASC provides guidance on how to determine the fair value when the volume and level of
activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased and reemphasizes that the objective of a fair value measurement remains an exit price notion.       Fair value   Securities         Level 1   Securities     Recent quoted
prices from exchange transactions are used for debt and equity securities that are actively traded on exchanges and for U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over-the-counter markets.
       Level 2   Securities     For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical
securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. The pricing sources employ financial models or obtain comparisons to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.
     Specifically, the pricing sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization
structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and speed of prepayment for the type of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current market place and classify such
securities as Level 2.      In addition, we have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS and other types of securities such as
FDIC-insured debt and sovereign debt. The pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major inter-dealer brokers. The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other
information feeds from the inter-dealer brokers.      For securities with bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is
analyzed and that information is included in the fair value assessment for such securities.

The pricing sources discontinue pricing any specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient
observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price. The pricing sources did not discontinue pricing for any securities in our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2010.      The prices provided by pricing sources are subject to review and challenges by industry participants, including ourselves.        Level 3   Securities     Where we have used our own cash flow models and estimates to value the securities, we classify them in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy. More than 99% of our
securities are valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Less than 1% of our securities are priced based on non-binding dealer quotes and are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   
  See Note 23 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of our securities by ASC 820 hierarchy level.   
   Fair value   Derivative financial instruments         Level 1  Derivative financial instruments       Includes derivative financial instruments that are actively traded on exchanges, principally foreign exchange futures and forward
contracts.          Level 2   Derivative financial instruments     Includes the majority of our derivative financial
instruments priced using internally developed models that use observable inputs for interest rates, pay-downs (both actual and expected), foreign exchange rates, option volatilities and other factors. The valuation process takes into consideration
factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns and results of stress tests.        Level 3   Derivative
financial instruments     Certain interest rate swaps with counterparties that are highly structured entities require significant judgment and analysis to adjust the value determined by standard pricing models. These interest rate swaps
are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy and compose less than 1% of our derivative financial instruments at fair value.

34     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   To test the appropriateness of the valuations, we subject the models to review and approval by an
independent internal risk management function, benchmark the models against similar instruments and validate model estimates to actual cash transactions. In addition, we perform detailed reviews and analyses of profit and loss. Valuation adjustments
are determined and controlled by a function independent of the area initiating the risk position. As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain products becomes more transparent, we refine our valuation methods. Any changes to the
valuation models are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.      To confirm that our valuation policies are consistent with
exit prices as prescribed by ASC 820, we reviewed our derivative valuations using recent transactions in the marketplace, pricing services and the results of similar types of transactions. As a result of maximizing observable inputs as required by
ASC 820, we reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative
positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as those of our counterparties.      For details of our
derivative financial instruments by ASC 820 hierarchy level, see Note 26 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Fair value
option       ASC 825 provides the option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement basis for selected financial assets, financial
liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments which are not subject to fair value under other accounting standards. Under ASC 825, fair value is used for both the initial and subsequent measurement of the designated assets,
liabilities and commitments, with the changes in fair value recognized in income. See Note 24 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure regarding the fair value option.   
   Fair value   Judgments       In times
of illiquid markets and financial stress, actual prices and valuations may significantly diverge from results predicted by models. In addition, other factors can affect our estimate of fair value, including market dislocations, incorrect model
assumptions, and unexpected correlations.   
 
   These valuation methods could expose us to materially different results should the models used or
underlying assumptions be inaccurate. See Basis of Presentation in Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Other-than-temporary impairment       In
April 2009, the FASB issued new guidance included in ASC 320 which modifies the other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) model for investments in debt securities. Under this guidance, a debt security is considered impaired if its fair
value is less than its amortized cost basis. An OTTI is triggered if (1) the intent is to sell the security, (2) the security will more likely than not have to be sold before the impairment is recovered, or (3) the amortized cost
basis is not expected to be recovered. When an entity does not intend to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis, it will recognize the credit component of an OTTI of a debt security in earnings and the remaining portion in other
comprehensive income.      For each non-agency RMBS, which includes Alt-A, subprime and prime RMBS not backed by the government, in the investment
portfolio (including but not limited to those whose fair value is less than their amortized cost basis), an extensive, regular review is conducted to determine if an OTTI has occurred. To determine if the unrealized loss for non-agency RMBS is
other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying mortgages and multiply that calculated amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity) in order to determine the projected
collateral loss. We also evaluate the current credit enhancement underlying the bond to determine the impact on cash flows. If we determine that a given RMBS position will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a
charge to earnings.      During 2010, the housing market and broader economy improved slightly. As a result, we adjusted our non-agency RMBS
estimated default and loss severity assumptions to decrease estimated defaults and increased the amount we expect to receive to cover the value of the original loan. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for projected
weighted-average default rates and loss severities for the 2007, 2006 and late-2005 non-agency RMBS and Grantor Trust portfolios at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009. If actual delinquencies, default rates and loss severity assumptions worsen, we would expect
additional impairment losses to be recorded in future periods.   

BNY
Mellon     35   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Net securities gains in 2010 were $27 million compared with losses of $5.4 billion in 2009. The losses
in 2009 reflect both credit and non-credit related losses on our investment securities portfolio, including securities for which we declared our intent to sell or restructure. If we were to increase or decrease each of our loss severity and
projected default rates by 100 basis points on each of the positions in our Alt-A, subprime and prime RMBS portfolios including the securities previously held by the Grantor Trust, credit-related impairment charges on these securities would have
increased by $3 million (pre-tax) or decreased by $3 million (pre-tax) at Dec. 31, 2010.      In addition, we assess OTTI for an
appropriate subset of our investment securities subject to guidance included in ASC 325    Investments   Other  by testing for an adverse change in cash flows. Any unrealized loss on a security identified as other-than-temporarily
impaired under ASC 325 analysis is charged to earnings.      Upon acquisition of a security, BNY Mellon decides whether it is within the scope of
ASC 325 or if it will be evaluated for impairment under ASC 320. Subsequently, if the security is downgraded, we do not alter this decision.   
  ASC 325 is an interpretation of ASC 320 for certain debt securities which are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets. Specifically, ASC 325
provides incremental impairment guidance for a subset of the debt securities within the scope of ASC 320. For securities where there is no debt rating at acquisition, and the security is a beneficial interest in securitized financial assets, we use
the ASC 325 impairment model. For securities where there is no debt rating at acquisition and the security is not a beneficial interest in securitized financial assets we use the ASC 320 impairment model.   
   Goodwill and other intangibles       We record all
assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other intangibles, at fair value as required by ASC 805  Business Combinations  and ASC 350  Intangibles   Goodwill and
Other.  The initial recording of goodwill and intangibles requires subjective judgments concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. Goodwill ($18.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2010) and indefinite-lived intangible
assets ($2.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2010) are not amortized but are subject to tests for impairment

annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate they may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are subject to impairment if events or
circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.      Key judgments in accounting for intangibles include useful life
and classification between goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles or other intangibles which require amortization. At Dec. 31, 2010, we had $23.7 billion of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles, and other intangible assets.   
  See Notes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill, intangible assets and annual
impairment testing.       Pension accounting    
  BNY Mellon has defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 26,600 U.S. employees and approximately 2,000 non-U.S. employees.   
  BNY Mellon has two qualified and several non-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and several pension plans overseas. As of Dec. 31, 2010,
the U.S. plans accounted for 83% of the projected benefit obligation. The pension expense for BNY Mellon plans was $47 million in 2010 compared to a pension credit of $17 million in 2009 and a pension credit of $20 million in 2008.
     Effective Jan. 1, 2011, the U.S. pension plan was amended to reduce benefits earned by participants for service after 2010, and to freeze
plan participation such that no new employees will enter the plan after Dec. 31, 2010. This change in the pension plan is expected to reduce pension expense by approximately $40 million in 2011.   
  A net pension expense of approximately $87 million is expected to be recorded by BNY Mellon in 2011, assuming currency exchange rates at Dec. 31,
2010. The expected increase in pension expense in 2011 is primarily driven by the change in plan assumptions partially offset by the plan changes mentioned above.      A number of key assumption and measurement date values determine pension expense. The key elements include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, the market-related value of plan
assets and the price used to value stock in the ESOP.   

36     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Since 2008, these key elements have varied as follows:   

(a)   
   Market-related value of plan assets and ESOP stock price are for the beginning of the plan year. See  Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting
Policies  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         The discount rate for U.S. pension plans was
determined after reviewing equivalent rates obtained by discounting the pension plans  expected cash flows using various high-quality long-term corporate bond yield curves. We also reviewed the results of several models that matched bonds to
our pension cash flows. After reviewing the various indices and models, we selected a discount rate of 5.71% as of Dec. 31, 2010.      The
discount rates for foreign pension plans are based on high-quality corporate bond rates in countries that have an active corporate bond market. In those countries with no active corporate bond market, discount rates are based on local government
bond rates plus a credit spread.      Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each applicable
asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the expected allocation for each asset class. Anticipated returns are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical
returns for these markets.   
 
   We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective
interest rates.      The market-related value of plan assets also influences the level of pension expense. Differences between expected and actual
returns are recognized over five years to compute an actuarially derived market-related value of plan assets. For the legacy Mellon Financial plans, the market-related value of assets was set equal to the assets  market value as of July 1,
2007. The averaging of actuarial gains and losses for the legacy Mellon Financial plan assets is being phased in over a five-year period beginning July 1, 2007.      Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the future service period of active employees if they exceed a threshold amount. BNY Mellon currently has $1.1 billion of unrecognized losses
which are being amortized.      The annual impacts of hypothetical changes in the key elements on pension costs are shown in the table below.
      
    In
addition to its pension plans, BNY Mellon has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ). Benefits payable under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Pension Plan are offset by the equivalent value of benefits earned under the ESOP for
employees who participated in the legacy Retirement Plan of the Bank of New York Company, Inc.   

BNY
Mellon     37   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
      Consolidated balance sheet review    
  At Dec. 31, 2010, total assets were $247.3 billion compared with $212.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. Deposits totaled $145.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and
$135.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in consolidated total assets resulted from the addition of $14.6 billion for the adoption of ASC 810, a higher level of both interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing deposits and the impact of the
Acquisitions. Total assets averaged $237.8 billion in 2010, compared with $212.1 billion in 2009. The increase in average assets primarily reflects the factors mentioned above. Total deposits averaged $139.4 billion in 2010 and $134.7 billion in
2009.      At Dec. 31, 2010, we had approximately $55.4 billion of liquid funds and $22.2 billion of cash (including approximately $18.5 billion
of overnight deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks) for a total of approximately $77.6 billion of available funds. This compares with available funds of $70.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. Our percentage of liquid assets to total
assets was 31% at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 33% at Dec. 31, 2009. Our interest-bearing deposits with banks are all placed with large highly rated global financial institutions. The average life of the interest-bearing deposits is approximately 47
days.      Investment securities were $66.3 billion or 27% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $56.0 billion or 26% of total assets at
Dec. 31, 2009. The increase primarily reflects a higher level of U.S. Treasury securities, securities acquired in the Acquisitions and an increase in the unrealized gain on the securities portfolio.

Loans were $37.8 billion or 15% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $36.7 billion or 17% of
total assets at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in loan levels was primarily due to higher margin loans.      Total shareholders  equity
applicable to BNY Mellon was $32.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and $29.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in total shareholders  equity primarily reflects retained earnings in 2010, the improvement in our investment securities portfolio due
to the decline in interest rates and the tightening of credit spreads, and the issuance of $677 million of common equity.      BNY Mellon,
through its involvement in the Government Securities Clearing Corporation ( GSCC ), settles government securities transactions on a net basis for payment and delivery through the Fed wire system. As a result, at Dec. 31, 2010, the assets
and liabilities of BNY Mellon were reduced by $2.5 billion for the netting of repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreement transactions executed with the same counterparty under standardized Master Repurchase Agreements. This netting is
performed in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 41 (ASC 210-20)  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements .       Investment securities       In the discussion of our investment securities portfolio, we have included
certain credit ratings information because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings classifications for our investment portfolio could indicate increased credit risk for us and
could be accompanied by a reduction in the fair value of our investment securities portfolio.   

38     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following table shows the distribution of our total investment securities portfolio:   

(a)   
   Amortized cost before impairments.      

(b)   
   The  Watch list  includes those securities we view as having a higher risk of impairment charges.      

(c)   
   Includes RMBS, commercial MBS, and other securities.      

(d)   
   These RMBS were previously included in the Grantor Trust and were marked to market in 2009. We believe these RMBS would receive higher credit ratings if these
ratings incorporated, as additional credit enhancement, the difference between the written-down amortized cost and the current face amount of each of these securities.      

(e)   
   Includes a $60 million unrealized gain on derivatives hedging securities available for sale.      
    
   The fair value of our investment securities portfolio was $66.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with
$55.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in the fair value of the securities portfolio primarily reflects a higher level of U.S. Treasury securities, securities acquired in the Acquisitions and an increase in the unrealized gain of the
securities portfolio.      At Dec. 31, 2010, the total investment securities portfolio had an unrealized pre-tax gain of $353 million
compared with an unrealized pre-tax loss of $1.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The unrealized net of tax gain on our investment securities available-for-sale portfolio included in other comprehensive income was $151 million at Dec. 31, 2010,
compared with a loss of $619 million at Dec. 31, 2009. The improvement in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was due to the decline in interest rates and the tightening of credit spreads.   
  In 2009, we established a Grantor Trust in connection with the restructuring of our investment securities

portfolio. The Grantor Trust is in the process of being dissolved. The securities previously held in the Grantor Trust are included in our securities portfolio. The investment securities
previously included in the Grantor Trust were marked down to approximately 60% of face value in 2009. At Dec. 31, 2010, these securities were trading above adjusted amortized cost with a total unrealized pre-tax gain of $578 million.
     At Dec. 31, 2010, 87% of the securities in our portfolio were rated AAA/AA-, compared with 86% at Dec. 31, 2009.   
  We routinely test our investment securities for OTTI. (See  Critical accounting estimates  for additional disclosure regarding OTTI.)
     At Dec. 31, 2010, we had $1.7 billion of accretable discount related to the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio. The
discount related to these transactions had a remaining average life of   

BNY
Mellon     39   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

approximately 4.1 years. The accretion of discount related to these securities increases net interest revenue and is recorded on a level yield basis. The discount accretion totaled
$458 million in 2010 and $91 million in 2009.      Also, at Dec. 31, 2010, we had $779 million of net amortizable purchase premium
relating to investment securities with a remaining average life of approximately 3.3 years. For these securities, the amortization of net premium decreased net interest revenue and is recorded on a level yield basis. We recorded net premium
amortization of $242 million in 2010 and $68 million in 2009.      Net securities gains in 2010 were $27 million. The following
table provides pre-tax securities gains (losses) by type.       
 
  The deterioration in the economy in 2009 and 2008 had a significant impact on our Alt-A, prime and subprime RMBS portfolios. The investment securities
losses in 2009 and 2008 reflected both credit and non-credit related impairment.      At Dec. 31, 2010, the investment securities portfolio
includes $57 million of assets not accruing interest primarily related to securities issued by Lehman or its affiliates. These securities are held at market value.

The following table shows the fair value of the European floating rate notes by geographical location at
Dec. 31, 2010. The unrealized loss on these securities was $431 million at Dec. 31, 2010, an improvement of $248 million from an unrealized loss of $679 million at Dec. 31, 2009.   

(a)   
   94% of these securities are in the AAA to AA- ratings category.         Included in our investment securities portfolio are the following securities that have a credit enhancement through a guarantee by a monoline insurer:   

(a)   
   The par value guaranteed by the monoline insurers was $741 million.         At Dec. 31, 2010, securities guaranteed by monoline insurers were rated 46% AAA to AA-, 15% A+ to A-, 15% BBB+ to BBB- and 24% BB+ and lower. The decrease in the fair value of these securities from Dec.
31, 2009, reflects maturities, calls and paydowns. In all cases, when purchasing the securities, we reviewed the credit quality of the underlying securities, as well as the insurer.      See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the detail of securities by level in the fair value hierarchy.

40     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following table shows the maturity distribution by carrying amount and yield (on a tax equivalent
basis) of our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2010.       

(a)   
   Yields are based upon the amortized cost of securities.      
    
   We also have equity investments categorized as other assets (parenthetical amounts indicate carrying values
at Dec. 31, 2010). Included in other assets are joint ventures and other equity investments ($1.6 billion), seed capital ($185 million), Federal Reserve Bank stock ($400 million), private equity investments ($143 million), and tax
advantaged low-income housing investments ($466 million). For additional information on the fair value of our private equity investments and seed capital, see Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  Our equity investment in Wing Hang had a fair value of $827 million (book value of $347 million) based on its share price at Dec. 31, 2010. An
agreement with certain other shareholders of Wing Hang prohibits the sale of this interest without their permission. We received dividends from Wing Hang of $6 million, $2 million and $26 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Private equity activities consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings, and direct
equity investments. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to these activities. The carrying and fair value of our private equity investments was $143 million at Dec. 31, 2010, down
$44 million from $187 million at Dec. 31, 2009. At Dec. 31, 2010, private equity investments consisted of investments in private equity funds of $137 million, direct equity of less than $1 million, and leveraged bond funds of
$6 million. Investment income was $29 million in 2010.      At Dec. 31, 2010, we had $35 million of unfunded investment commitments
to private equity funds. If unused, the commitments expire between 2011 and 2015.      Commitments to private equity limited partnerships may
extend beyond the expiration period shown above to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and liabilities, and organizational and partnership expenses.

BNY
Mellon     41   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Loans    

At Dec. 31, 2010, total exposures were $75.9 billion, a decrease of 7% from $81.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2009,
reflecting a decrease in institutional, commercial real estate and lease financing exposures, partially offset by an increase in margin loans.   
  We tightly monitor risk within our loan portfolio and continue to reduce risk by:   

Focusing on investment grade names to support cross selling.

Avoiding single name/industry concentrations, using credit default swaps as appropriate.      

Exiting high-risk portfolios.         Our financial institutions and commercial portfolios comprise our largest concentrated risk. These portfolios make up 60% of our total lending exposure.

Financial institutions
      The diversity of the financial institutions portfolio is shown in the following table.   

The financial institutions portfolio exposure was $25.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared to
$27.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The change from Dec. 31, 2009, primarily reflects decreases in insurance, government and asset manager exposure, partially offset by increased exposure to broker-dealers. Financial institution exposures
are high quality with 91% meeting the investment grade

equivalent criteria of our rating system at Dec. 31, 2010. These exposures are generally short-term, with 73% expiring within one year, and are frequently secured by securities that we may hold
in custody on behalf of those financial institutions. For example, securities industry and asset managers often borrow against marketable securities held in custody.

42     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
  
   As a conservative measure, our internal credit rating classification for international counterparties caps
the rating based upon the sovereign rating of the country where the counterparty resides regardless of the credit rating of the counterparty or the underlying collateral.      Our exposure to banks is predominately to investment grade counterparties in developed countries.

Non-investment grade bank exposures are short term in nature supporting our global trade finance and U.S. dollar clearing businesses in developing countries.   
  The asset manager portfolio exposures are high quality with 99% meeting our investment grade equivalent ratings criteria at Dec. 31, 2010. These
exposures are generally short-term liquidity facilities with the vast majority to regulated mutual funds.   

Commercial    
  The diversity of the commercial portfolio is shown in the following table.   

The commercial portfolio exposure decreased 20% to $20.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, from $25.5 billion at
Dec. 31, 2009, reflecting our strategy to reduce targeted risk exposure. Our goal is to migrate toward a predominantly investment grade portfolio.      The table below summarizes the percent of the financial institutions and commercial exposures that are investment grade.       
     
  Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities, avoid single name/industry concentrations and exit
high-risk portfolios. Each customer is assigned an internal rating grade, which is mapped to an external rating agency grade equivalent based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time. The execution of our
strategy, as well as an adjustment in the credit ratings of our existing portfolio, has resulted in a higher percentage of the portfolio that is investment grade at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with Dec. 31 2009.

Wealth management loans and mortgages       Wealth Management loans and mortgages are primarily composed of loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured by marketable securities and/or residential property. Wealth management mortgages are
primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan to value ratio of 61% at origination. In the wealth management portfolio, 1% of the mortgages were past due at Dec. 31, 2010.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, the private wealth mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following geographic concentrations: New York   25%; Massachusetts
  17%; California   17%; Florida   8%; and other   33%.       Commercial real estate    
  Our commercial real estate facilities are focused on experienced owners and are structured with moderate leverage based on existing cash flows. Our
commercial real estate lending activities include both construction facilities and medium-term loans. Our client base consists of experienced developers and long-term holders of real estate assets. Loans are approved on the basis of existing or
projected cash flow, and supported by appraisals and knowledge of local market conditions. Development loans are

BNY
Mellon     43   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

structured with moderate leverage, and in most instances, involve some level of recourse to the developer. Our commercial real estate exposure totaled $3.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2010 compared with
$3.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2009.      At Dec. 31, 2010, approximately 70% of our commercial real estate portfolio is secured. The secured portfolio
is diverse by project type with approximately 58% secured by residential buildings, 21% secured by office buildings, 8% secured by retail properties, and 13% secured by other categories. Approximately 96% of the unsecured portfolio is allocated to
investment grade real estate investment trusts ( REITs ) under revolving credit agreements.      At Dec. 31, 2010, our commercial real
estate portfolio is comprised of the following geographic concentrations: New York metro   49%; investment grade REITs   29%; and other   22%.       Lease financings       The lease financing portfolio consisted of non-airline exposures of $3.0
billion and $210 million of airline exposures at Dec. 31, 2010. Approximately 90% of the lease financing exposure is investment grade, or investment grade equivalent.      At Dec. 31, 2010, the non-airline portion of the lease financing portfolio consisted of $3.0 billion of exposures backed by well-diversified assets, primarily large-ticket transportation equipment. The
largest component is rail, consisting of both passenger and freight trains. Assets are both domestic and foreign-based, with primary concentrations in the United States and European countries. Excluding airline lease financing, counterparty rating
equivalents at Dec. 31, 2010, were as follows:       

9% of the counterparties are AA or better;      

5% are non-investment grade      
  At Dec. 31, 2010, our $210 million of exposure to the airline industry consisted of $12 million of real estate lease exposure, as well as
the airline lease financing portfolio which included $72 million to major U.S. carriers, $114 million to foreign airlines and $12 million to U.S. regional airlines.      In 2010, the U.S domestic airline industry has shown significant improvement in revenues and yields. Despite this improvement, these carriers continue to

have extremely high debt levels. Combined with their high fixed-cost operating models, the domestic airlines remain vulnerable. As such, we continue to maintain a sizable allowance for loan
losses against these exposures and continue to closely monitor the portfolio.      We utilize the lease financing portfolio as part of our tax
management strategy.       Other residential mortgages       The other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and totaled $2.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. Included in this portfolio is approximately
$745 million of mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the remaining prime and Alt-A mortgage loans in this
portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 75% at origination and approximately 30% of these loans were at least 60 days delinquent. The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in
California, Florida, Virginia, Maryland and the tri-state area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut).      To determine the projected loss on the
prime and Alt-A mortgage portfolio, we calculate the total estimated defaults of these mortgages and multiply that amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale in the marketplace (severity).   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, we had less than $15 million in subprime mortgages included in the other residential mortgage portfolio. The subprime loans were
issued to support our Community Reinvestment Act requirements.       Overdrafts       Overdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business
days.       Other loans       Other
loans primarily includes loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities, as well as bankers acceptances.

44     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Loans by product       The following table shows trends in the loans outstanding at year-end on a continuing operations basis over the last five years.   

(a)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

Maturity of loan portfolio       The following table shows the maturity structure of our loan portfolio at Dec. 31, 2010.       

(a)   
   Excludes loans collateralized by residential properties, lease financings and wealth management loans and mortgages.      

(b)   
   Variable rate loans due after one year totaled $2.8 billion and fixed rate loans totaled $125 million.

International loans       We have credit relationships in the international markets, particularly in areas associated with our securities servicing and trade finance activities. Excluding lease financings, these activities
resulted in outstanding international loans of $6.5 billion and $5.9 billion as of Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase primarily resulted from an increase in loans to financial institutions.   
   Asset quality and allowance for credit losses    
  Over the past several years, we have improved our risk profile through greater focus on clients who are active users of our non-credit services,
de-emphasizing broad-based loan growth. Our primary exposure to the credit risk of a customer consists of funded loans, unfunded formal contractual      commitments to lend, standby letters of credit and overdrafts associated with our custody and securities clearance businesses.

BNY
Mellon     45   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The role of credit has shifted to one that complements our other services instead of as a lead product.
Credit solidifies customer relationships and, through a disciplined allocation of capital, can earn acceptable rates of return as part of an overall relationship.      We have implemented a credit strategy to reduce exposures that no longer meet risk/return criteria, including an assessment of overall relationship profitability. In addition, we make use of credit
derivatives and other risk mitigants as economic hedges of portions of the credit risk in our portfolio. The effect of these transactions is to transfer credit risk to creditworthy, independent third parties. The following table details changes in
our allowance for credit losses for the last five years.       

(a)   
   Charge-offs, recoveries and the provision for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. These categories for
2006 reflect legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

46     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Net charge-offs were $68 million in 2010, $214 million in 2009 and $73 million in 2008.
Charge-offs in 2010 included $46 million of other residential mortgages primarily located in California, New York and Florida, $17 million related to a mortgage company, partially offset by $10 million of net recoveries from the media
portfolio. Net charge-offs in 2009 included $71 million related to print and broadcast media, $60 million of residential mortgages primarily located in California, New York, New Jersey and Florida, $31 million related to commercial
real estate exposure in Florida and New York, $38 million to finance and leasing companies and $8 million to an auto parts manufacturer.      The provision for credit losses was $11 million in 2010 compared with $332 million in 2009 and $104 million in 2008. The decrease in the provision for credit losses in 2010 compared with
2009 primarily reflects broad improvement in the quality of the credit portfolio driven by a 66% decrease in criticized assets compared with Dec. 31, 2009, primarily in the insurance, automotive and media portfolios. Criticized assets include
impaired credits and higher risk-rated credits. Also impacting the provision for credit losses were decreases in nonperforming loans, particularly in the insurance portfolio.      The total allowance for credit losses was $571 million at Dec. 31, 2010, and $628 million Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease in the allowance for credit losses reflects a lower provision in 2010
resulting from a 66% decline in criticized assets.      The ratio of the total allowance for credit losses to year-end non-margin loans was 1.84%
at Dec. 31, 2010, and 1.96% at Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease reflects the decline in criticized assets in 2010. The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to year-end non-margin loans remained stable at 1.61% at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 1.57% at
Dec. 31, 2009.      We had $6.8 billion of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $4.7 billion at Dec. 31,
2009. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any

of our allowance for credit losses to them. As a result, we believe that the ratio of total allowance for credit losses to non-margin loans is a more appropriate metric to measure the adequacy of
the reserve.      Based on an evaluation of the four elements of the allowance for credit losses, as discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, as well as individual credits, historical credit losses, and global economic factors, we have allocated our allowance for credit losses on a continuing operations basis as follows:   

(b)   
   Reflects legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(c)   
   Includes the allowance for wealth management mortgages.         The allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the nature of the loss. The
unallocated allowance reflects various factors in the current credit environment and is also available to, among other things, absorb further deterioration across all of our portfolios resulting from the current economic environment.   
  The unallocated allowance for credit losses was 20% at Dec. 31, 2010, an increase from 4% at Dec. 31, 2009. We believe the unallocated allowance, at
Dec. 31, 2010, is appropriate given the uncertainty of the economy s direction and the potential for continued credit quality and valuation pressures in the residential mortgage and commercial real estate portfolios.

BNY
Mellon     47   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Nonperforming assets       The following table shows the distribution of nonperforming assets at the end of each of the last five years.       

(a)   
   Reflects legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(c)   
   The adoption of ASC 810 resulted in BNY Mellon consolidating loans of consolidated asset management funds of $13.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2010 into trading assets.
These loans are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio. Included in these loans are $218 million of nonperforming loans. These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for
loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table above.      
    
   Nonperforming assets were $399 million at Dec. 31, 2010, a decrease of $151 million compared with
Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease primarily resulted from repayments of $136 million in the insurance portfolio, $24 million in the commercial real estate portfolio, $11 million in the commercial loan portfolio, charge-offs of
$86 million in the financial institutions, commercial real estate, commercial, wealth management, and other residential mortgage portfolios, and sales of $25 million from the other residential mortgage portfolio and $21 from the commercial
loan portfolio. Also in 2010, $10 million in the commercial portfolio and $19 million in other residential mortgages returned to accrual status. Additions in 2010 included $145 million in the other residential mortgages portfolio,
$17 million in the commercial loans portfolio, $14 million in commercial real estate portfolio, $12 million in the wealth management loan portfolio and $7 million in the financial institutions loan portfolio.

The following table shows loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest.   

(a)   
   Reflects legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.

48     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Past due loans at Dec. 31, 2010 were primarily comprised of $21 million of other residential mortgages
and $12 million of commercial real estate loans. The $398 million decrease in past due loans compared with 2009 primarily resulted from the repayment of a loan to an asset manager that had previously filed for bankruptcy. For additional
information, see Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Deposits       Total deposits were $145.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, an increase of 8% compared with $135.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in deposits reflects higher domestic deposits.   
  Noninterest-bearing deposits were $38.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $33.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. Interest-bearing deposits were
$106.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $101.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2009.      The aggregate amount of deposits by foreign customers in
domestic offices was $9.7 billion and $11.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      Deposits in foreign offices totaled
approximately $73 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and approximately $71 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The majority of these deposits were in amounts in excess of $100,000 and were primarily overnight foreign deposits.   
  The following table shows the maturity breakdown of domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more at Dec. 31, 2010.   

Short-term borrowings       We fund ourselves
primarily through deposits and other borrowings, which are comprised of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, trading liabilities, payables to customers

and broker-dealers, commercial paper, other borrowed funds and long-term debt. Certain other borrowings, for example, securities sold under repurchase agreements, require the delivery of
securities as collateral.      See  Liquidity and dividends  below for a discussion of long-term debt and liquidity metrics that we
monitor and The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation parent company s (the  Parent ) limited reliance on short-term borrowings.   
  Information related to federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements is presented below.   

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements were $5.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $3.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2009,
and Sept. 30, 2010. The increase compared to both prior periods primarily relates to the consolidation of repurchase agreement activity performed on behalf of clients at our asset management subsidiary in Brazil at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in
interest rates compared with prior periods primarily relates to higher interest rates in Brazil.   

BNY
Mellon     49   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Information related to payables to customers and broker-dealers is presented below.   

Payables to customers and broker-dealers represent funds held
payable on demand and short sale proceeds. Payables to customers and broker-dealers were $10.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, $10.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2009, and $10.9 billion at Sept. 30, 2010. Payables to customers and broker-dealers are driven by
customer trading activity and their expectations of market asset levels.      Information related to commercial paper is presented below.

Commercial paper outstanding was $10 million at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $12 million at Dec. 31, 2009, and $9 million at Sept. 30,
2010.      Information related to other borrowed funds is presented below.   

Other borrowed funds primarily include: term federal funds purchased under agreement to resell; borrowings under lines of credit by our Pershing
subsidiaries; and overdrafts of subcustodian account balances in our securities servicing businesses. Overdrafts in these accounts typically relate to timing differences for settlements of these business activities. Other borrowed funds were $2.9
billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $477 million at Dec. 31, 2009, and $2.2 billion at Sept. 30, 2010.   

50     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
      Liquidity and dividends       BNY Mellon defines liquidity as the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to access funding or convert assets to cash quickly and efficiently, especially during periods of market stress. Liquidity
risk is the risk that BNY Mellon cannot meet its cash and collateral obligations at a reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flow, without adversely affecting daily operations or financial conditions. Liquidity risk can arise from
cash flow mismatches, market constraints from inability to convert assets to cash, inability to raise cash in the markets or deposit run-off.   
  Our overall approach to liquidity management is to ensure that sources of liquidity are sufficient in amount and diversity such that changes in funding
requirements at the Parent and at the various bank subsidiaries can be accommodated routinely without material adverse impact on earnings, daily operations or our financial condition.      BNY Mellon seeks to maintain an adequate liquidity cushion in both normal and stressed environments and seeks to diversify funding sources by line of business, customer and market segment. Additionally,
we seek to maintain liquidity ratios within approved limits and liquidity risk tolerance; maintain a liquid asset buffer that can be liquidated, financed and/or pledged as necessary; and control the levels and sources of wholesale funds.   
  Potential uses of liquidity include withdrawals of customer deposits and client drawdowns on unfunded credit or liquidity facilities. We actively monitor
unfunded loan commitments, thereby reducing unanticipated funding requirements.      When monitoring liquidity, we evaluate multiple metrics to
ensure ample liquidity for expected and unexpected events. Metrics include cashflow mismatches, asset maturities, access to debt and money markets, debt spreads, peer ratios, unencumbered collateral, funding sources and balance sheet liquidity
ratios. We have begun to monitor the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio as applied to us, based on our current interpretation of Basel III. Ratios we currently monitor as part of our standard analysis include total loans as a percentage of total
deposits, deposits as a percentage of total assets, foreign deposits as a percentage of total assets, purchased funds as a percentage of total assets, liquid assets as a percentage of total assets and liquid assets as a percentage of purchased
funds. All of these ratios

exceeded our minimum guidelines at Dec. 31, 2010. We also perform stress tests to verify sufficient funding capacity is accessible after conducting multiple economic scenarios.   
  At Dec. 31, 2010, we had approximately $55.4 billion of liquid funds and $22.2 billion of cash (including approximately $18.5 billion in overnight
deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks) for a total of approximately $77.6 billion of available funds. This compares with available funds of $70.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. Our percentage of liquid assets to total assets was
31% at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 33% at Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease from Dec. 31, 2009, primarily resulted from the adoption of ASC 810 (SFAS No. 167), which increased the consolidated total assets on our balance sheet by $14.6 billion at
Dec. 31, 2010.      On an average basis for 2010 and 2009, non-core sources of funds such as money market rate accounts, certificates of deposit
greater than $100,000, federal funds purchased, trading liabilities and other borrowings were $34.9 billion and $25.1 billion, respectively. The increase primarily reflects higher levels of money market rate accounts and federal funds purchased.
Average foreign deposits, primarily from our European-based securities servicing business, were $71.4 billion in 2010 compared with $72.6 billion in 2009. Domestic savings and other time deposits averaged $7.0 billion in 2010 compared with $6.1
billion in 2009.      Average payables to customers and broker-dealers were $6.4 billion in 2010 and $5.3 billion in 2009. Long-term debt averaged
$16.7 billion in 2010 and $16.9 billion in 2009. Average noninterest-bearing deposits decreased to $35.2 billion in 2010 from $36.4 billion in 2009. A significant reduction in our securities servicing businesses would reduce our access to
deposits.      The Parent has five major sources of liquidity:       

cash on hand;      

dividends from its subsidiaries;      

access to the commercial paper market;      

a revolving credit agreement with third party financial institutions; and      

access to the long-term debt and equity markets.         As a result of charges recorded in 2009 related to the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. are required to obtain consent from our

BNY
Mellon     51   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

regulators prior to paying a dividend. Despite this limitation, management estimates that liquidity at the Parent will continue to be sufficient to meet BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly
dividends at the current level of $0.09 per share, as well as any increase to the dividend approved as part of our capital plan which was submitted to the Federal Reserve in 2011. In addition, at Dec. 31, 2010, non-bank subsidiaries of the Parent
had liquid assets of approximately $1.2 billion.      Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends would require
consultation with the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.
     Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiaries are discussed in more detail in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.      In 2010 and 2009, the Parent s average commercial paper borrowings were $18 million and $186 million,
respectively. The Parent had cash of $3.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $4.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease in Parent cash resulted primarily from the paydown of long-term debt in 2010. The Parent issues commercial paper, on an
overnight basis, to certain custody clients with excess demand deposit balances. Overnight commercial paper outstanding issued by the Parent was $10 million and $12 million at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net of commercial paper
outstanding, the Parent s cash position at Dec. 31, 2010, decreased by $1.2 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2009, reflecting maturities of long-term debt.      The Parent s reliance on short-term unsecured funding sources such as commercial paper, federal funds and Eurodollars purchased, certificates of deposit, time deposits and bank notes is limited. The
Parent s liquidity target is to have sufficient cash on hand to meet its obligations over the next 18 months without the need to receive dividends from its bank subsidiaries or issue debt. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the Parent met its liquidity
target.      In July 2010, the Parent launched a new commercial paper program, which is in addition to the program discussed above, under which it
may issue commercial paper to certain institutional accredited investors in transactions exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Commercial paper notes issued under this

program will have a maturity not exceeding 397 days from the date of issuance. There was no commercial paper outstanding under this program at Dec. 31, 2010.   
  We currently have a $226 million credit agreement with 10 financial institutions that matures in October 2011. The fee on this facility depends on
our credit rating and at Dec. 31, 2010, was 6 basis points. The credit agreement requires us to maintain:       

shareholder s equity of $5 billion;      

a ratio of Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5;      

a double leverage ratio less than 130%; and      

adequate capitalization of all our banks for regulatory purposes.         We are currently in compliance with these covenants. There were no borrowings under this facility at Dec. 31, 2010.      We also have the ability to access the capital markets. In June 2010, we filed shelf registration statements on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) covering the issuance
of certain securities, including an unlimited amount of debt, common stock, preferred stock and trust preferred securities, as well as common stock issued under the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plans.   
  Our ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, is partially dependent on our credit ratings, which, as of Dec. 31, 2010, were
as follows:       

Debt ratings at Dec. 31, 2010   
     
  Moody s  

Standard   Poor s  

Fitch  

DBRS  

Parent:    

Long-term senior debt   

Aa2  

AA-  

AA-  

AA (low)  

Subordinated debt   

Aa3  

A+  

A+  

A (high)  

The Bank of New York Mellon:    

Long-term senior debt   

Aaa  

AA  

AA-  

AA  

Long-term deposits   

Aaa  

AA  

AA  

AA  

BNY Mellon, N.A.:    

Long-term senior debt   

Aaa  

AA  

AA-    
    (a)    

AA  

Long-term deposits   

Aaa  

AA  

AA  

AA  

Outlook    

Stable   

Stable   

Stable   

Stable        (long-term)     

(a)   
   Represents senior debt issuer default rating.

52     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In April 2010, one of the rating agencies announced that regulatory changes in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ), could result in lower debt and deposit ratings for U.S. banks and other financial institutions whose ratings currently benefit from assumed government support. The rating agency
anticipates that once implementing regulations clarify the final form of regulatory reform, the potentially affected ratings would be placed under review. The rating agency further indicated it would consider the pace over which any benefits
resulting from regulatory reform would accrue versus the likely pace over which systemic support would be curtailed. Currently, the ratings for the Parent benefit from one notch of  lift  and The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon,
N.A. benefit two notches of  lift  as a result of the rating agency s government support assumptions. Other institutions benefit between one and five notches of  lift.  If these rating changes occur as proposed, the Parent,
The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. would remain at the highest level for all U.S. bank holding companies and U.S. banks.      The
Parent s major uses of funds are payment of dividends, principal and interest on its borrowings, acquisitions, and additional investments in its subsidiaries.      Long-term debt decreased to $16.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2010 from $17.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2009, primarily due to $1.85 billion of senior and subordinated long-term debt that matured in 2010 and
$750 million of retail medium-term notes that were called in 2010.      In 2010, we issued $650 million of Senior Notes maturing in 2015
with a 2.95% interest rate, $600 million of Senior Notes maturing in 2016 with a 2.5% interest rate, and $100 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes maturing in 2013.      The Parent has $1.3 billion of long-term debt that will mature in 2011 and has the option to call $592 million of subordinated debt in 2011, which it may call and refinance if market conditions are
favorable.      We have $850 million of trust preferred securities that are freely callable in 2011. These securities qualify as Tier 1
capital. Any decision to call these securities will be based on interest rates, the availability of cash and capital, and regulatory conditions, as well as the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, which eliminates these trust preferred securities
from the Tier 1 capital of large bank holding companies, including

BNY Mellon, over a three-year period beginning Jan. 1, 2013.      In June 2010, BNY Mellon
priced 25.9 million common shares in an underwritten public offering, at $27.00 per common share. In connection with this offering, BNY Mellon entered into a forward sale agreement with a forward purchaser, who borrowed and sold to the public
through the underwriters shares of the Company s common stock. In September 2010, BNY Mellon settled the forward sale agreement. At settlement, BNY Mellon received net proceeds of approximately $677 million. The proceeds were primarily
used to fund the acquisition of GIS.      The double leverage ratio is the ratio of investment in subsidiaries divided by our consolidated equity
plus trust preferred securities. Our double leverage ratio at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, was 100.7%, and 104.8%, respectively. Our target double leverage ratio is a maximum of 120%. The double leverage ratio is monitored by regulators and rating
agencies and is an important constraint on our ability to invest in our subsidiaries and expand our businesses.      Pershing LLC, an indirect
subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines of credit in place for liquidity purposes which are guaranteed by the Parent. The committed line of credit of $935 million extended by 14 financial institutions matures in March
2011. We expect this line of credit will be renewed. In 2010, the daily average borrowing against this line of credit was $93 million. Additionally, Pershing LLC has another committed line of credit for $125 million extended by one
financial institution that matures in September 2011. The daily average borrowing against this line of credit was $1 million during 2010. Pershing LLC has six separate uncommitted lines of credit, amounting to $1.4 billion in aggregate. Average
daily borrowing under these lines was $592 million, in aggregate, during 2010.      The committed line of credit maintained by Pershing LLC
requires the Parent to maintain:       

shareholders  equity of $5 billion;      

a ratio of Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5; and      

a double leverage ratio less than 130%.         We are currently in compliance with these covenants.      Pershing Limited, an indirect UK-based
subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines of credit in place for liquidity purposes, which are

BNY
Mellon     53   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)               

guaranteed by the Parent. The committed line of credit of $233 million extended by five financial institutions matures in March 2011. We expect this line to be renewed. The average daily
borrowing under this line was $5 million, in aggregate, in 2010. Pershing Limited has three separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $250 million in aggregate. In 2010, average daily borrowing under these lines was less than
$1 million in aggregate.       Statement of cash flows       Cash provided by operating activities was $4.1 billion in 2010, compared with $3.8 billion in 2009 and $2.9 billion in 2008. In 2010 and 2008, the cash flows from operations in 2008 were principally
the result of earnings. In 2009, earnings, excluding the non-cash impact of investment securities losses, depreciation and amortization and accruals and other balances, partially offset by deferred tax benefits and changes in trading activities,
were a significant source of funds.      In 2010, cash used for investing activities was $14.9 billion compared with cash provided by investing
activities of $23.1 billion in 2009 and $56.0 billion used for investing activities in 2008. In 2010, purchases of securities available-for-sale, an increase in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and the
Acquisitions were a significant use of funds. In 2009, interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks was a significant source of funds, partially offset by purchases of securities available for sale. In

2008, interest-bearing deposits at the Federal Reserve and other central banks and interest-bearing deposits with banks were a significant use of funds, and federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements and loans to customers were a significant source of funds.      In 2010, cash provided by financing activities
was $10.8 billion, compared to $28.0 billion used for financing activities in 2009 and $51.8 billion provided by financing activities in 2008. In 2010, change in deposits, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements,
other funds borrowed and the proceeds from issuances of long-term debt were significant sources of funds, partially offset by repayments of long-term debt. In 2009, change in deposits, other borrowed funds and the repurchase of the Series B
preferred stock and the warrant were significant uses of funds, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and common stock, and the change in federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements. In 2008,
deposits and other funds borrowed, partially offset by use of funds for the repayments of long-term debt and commercial paper were the primary source of funds.         Commitments and obligations       We have contractual obligations to make fixed
and determinable payments to third parties as indicated in the table below. The table excludes certain obligations such as trade payables and trading liabilities, where the obligation is short-term or subject to valuation based on market factors.

(a)   
   Including interest.      
      
  54     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   We have entered into fixed and determinable commitments as indicated in the table below:   

(a)   
   Includes private equity and Community Reinvestment Act commitments.      

(b)   
   Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms.

In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, at Dec. 31, 2010, $289 million of unrecognized
tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential interest of $52 million. At this point, it is not possible to determine when
these amounts will be settled or resolved.         Off-balance sheet arrangements    
  Off-balance sheet arrangements required to be discussed in this section are limited to guarantees, retained or contingent interests, support agreements,
certain derivative instruments related to our common stock, and obligations arising out of unconsolidated variable interest entities. For BNY Mellon, these items include certain credit guarantees and securitizations. Guarantees include:
lending-related guarantees issued as part of our corporate banking business; securities lending indemnifications issued as part of our servicing and fiduciary businesses; and support agreements issued to customers in our asset servicing and asset
management businesses. See the  Support agreements  section and Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements.

Capital    

(a)   
   See Supplemental information beginning on page 65 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.      
  Total The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders  equity increased compared with Dec. 31, 2009. The increase primarily reflects
earnings retention in 2010, an unrealized gain in the investment securities portfolio resulting from a decline in interest rates and tighter credit spreads and the issuance of $677 million (25.9 million shares) of common equity in 2010.
     In June 2010, BNY Mellon priced 25.9 million common shares in an underwritten public offering, at $27.00 per common share. In connection
with this offering, BNY Mellon entered into a forward sale   

BNY
Mellon     55   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

agreement with a forward purchaser, who borrowed and sold to the public through the underwriters shares of the Company s common stock. BNY Mellon settled the forward sale agreement in
September 2010 and received net proceeds of $677 million from this transaction.      The unrealized net of tax gain on our available-for-sale
securities portfolio recorded in other comprehensive income was $151 million at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with an unrealized net of tax loss of $619 million at Dec 31, 2009. The improvement primarily reflects a decline in interest rates and
tighter credit spreads.      In January 2011, we declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.09 per common share that was paid on Feb. 9,
2011, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Jan. 31, 2011.

Capital adequacy       Regulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with established quantitative measurements. For the
Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries must, among other things, qualify as well capitalized. In addition, major bank holding companies such as the Parent corporation are expected by the regulators to be
well capitalized.      As of Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, the Parent and our bank subsidiaries were considered well capitalized on the basis of the
ratios (defined by regulation) of Total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and leverage (Tier 1 capital to average assets).

Our consolidated and largest bank
subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, capital ratios are shown below.       

(a)   
   See Supplemental information beginning on page 65 for a calculation of this ratio.          N/A - Not applicable at the consolidated company level.    
    
   If a bank holding company or bank fails to qualify as  adequately capitalized , regulatory
sanctions and limitations are imposed. At Dec. 31, 2010, the amounts of capital by which BNY Mellon and our largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, exceed the well-capitalized guidelines are as follows:   

The Tier 1 capital ratio varies depending on the size of the balance sheet at quarter-end and the level and types of investments. The balance sheet size
fluctuates   

from quarter to quarter based on levels of customer and market activity. In general, when servicing clients are more actively trading securities, deposit balances and the balance sheet as a whole
is higher.      Our Tier 1 capital ratio was 13.4% at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 12.1% at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in the Tier 1 capital
ratio compared with Dec. 31, 2009, primarily reflects earnings retention, the 2010 common equity issuance of $677 million and lower risk-weighted assets, partially offset by the impact of the Acquisitions. The Acquisitions, net of the equity
raise, reduced Tier 1 and Tier 1 common ratios by approximately 195 basis points and the tangible common shareholders  equity ratio by approximately 100 basis points. At Dec. 31, 2010, our total assets were $247.3 billion compared with $212.2
billion at   

56     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Dec. 31, 2009. The increase in assets did not impact our risk-weighted assets as the increase was primarily in lower risk-weighted government investments and deposits with the Federal Reserve and
other central banks, as well as assets of consolidated asset management funds which are discussed below. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio was 5.8% at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with 6.5% at Dec. 31, 2009. The decrease primarily reflects higher average assets
in 2010 compared with 2009 and the impact of the Acquisitions.      In January 2010, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision issued a final rule requiring banks to hold capital for assets consolidated under ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17. As a result of
applying ASU 2009-17, BNY Mellon consolidated approximately $14 billion of collateralized loan obligation ( CLO ) funds into trading assets and liabilities as of Dec. 31, 2010. Any loss from the assets of these funds will be absorbed by
the senior and junior noteholders of the funds and not by BNY Mellon. The resulting regulatory capital required for these zero-risk positions is de minimis. The final rule allows for a phase-in of 50% of the effect on risk-weighted assets and
allowance for loan losses

includable in Tier 2 capital that results from implementation of this standard for the quarter ending Dec. 31, 2010, with full phase-in for the quarter ending March 31, 2011. BNY Mellon
elected to defer the implementation of ASC 810 for capital purposes. At Dec. 31, 2010, had we fully phased-in the implementation of ASC 810, our Tier 1 capital ratio would have been negatively impacted by approximately 2 basis points.   
  A billion dollar change in risk-weighted assets changes the Tier 1 ratio by approximately 13 basis points while a $100 million change in common
equity changes the Tier 1 ratio by approximately 10 basis points.      Our tangible BNY Mellon shareholders  equity to tangible assets of
operations ratio was 5.8% at Dec. 31, 2010, up from 5.2% at Dec. 31, 2009. The increase compared with the prior year primarily reflects earnings retention, the $677 million common equity issuance and an improvement in the value of our
investment securities portfolio.      At Dec. 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.7 billion of trust preferred securities outstanding, net of
issuance costs, all of which qualifies as Tier 1 capital.   

The following tables present the
components of our Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital and risk-weighted assets at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel 1 guidelines and including discontinued operations.      
 
         BNY
Mellon     57   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel 1 guidelines and including discontinued operations.      
   Stock repurchase programs        

(a)   
   These shares were purchased at a purchase price of approximately $1 million from employees, primarily in connection with the employees  payment of taxes
upon the vesting of restricted stock.      
    
   On Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million
shares of common stock. There is no expiration date on this repurchase program.         Risk management    
   Governance       Risk management and
oversight begins with the Board of Directors and two key Board committees: the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.      The Risk Committee is
comprised entirely of independent directors and meets on a regular basis to review and assess the control processes with respect to the Company s inherent risks. They also review and assess the risk management activities of the Company

and the Company s fiduciary risk policies and activities. Policy formulation and day-to-day oversight of the Risk Management Framework is delegated to the Chief Risk Officer, who, together
with the Chief Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer, helps ensure an effective risk management governance structure. The functions of the Risk Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website,
 www.bnymellon.com .      The Audit Committee is also comprised entirely of independent directors, all of whom are financially literate
within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards, and two of whom have been determined to be audit committee financial experts as set out in the rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act ), and to      have accounting or related financial management

58     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

expertise within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards, and who have banking and financial management expertise within the meaning of the FDIC rules. The Audit Committee meets on a regular
basis to perform an oversight review of the integrity of the financial statements and financial reporting process, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, our independent registered public accountant s qualifications and
independence, and the performance of our registered public accountant and internal audit function. The Audit Committee also reviews management s assessment of the adequacy of internal controls. The functions of the Audit Committee are described
in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website,  www.bnymellon.com .      The Senior Risk Management Committee
( SRMC ) is the most senior management body responsible for ensuring that emerging risks are weighed against the corporate risk appetite and that any material amendments to the risk appetite statement are properly vetted and recommended to
the Executive Committee and the Board for approval. The SRMC also reviews any material breaches to our risk appetite and approves action plans required to remediate the issue. SRMC provides oversight for the risk management, compliance and ethics
framework. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial Officer are among SRMC s members.       Risk appetite
statement       BNY Mellon defines risk appetite as the level of risk it is normally willing to accept while pursuing the interests of our
major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and regulators. The Company has adopted the following as its risk appetite statement:  Risk taking is a fundamental characteristic of providing financial services and arises in
every transaction we undertake. Our risk appetite is driven by the fact that we are a leading provider of financial services and play a major role in the global marketplace. As a result, we are committed to maintaining a balance sheet, which remains
strong throughout market cycles, to meet the expectations of our major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and regulators. The balance sheet will be characterized by strong liquidity, superior asset quality, ready access to
external funding sources at competitive rates and a strong capital structure that supports our risk taking activities and is adequate to absorb potential losses. These characteristics support our goal of superior debt rating

versus our peers (currently  AA  at the holding company level). To that end, the company s Risk Management Framework has been designed to:   

ensure that appropriate risk tolerances ( limits ) are in place to govern our risk taking activities across all businesses and risk types;

ensure that our risk appetite principles permeate the company culture and are incorporated into our strategic decision-making processes;

ensure rigorous monitoring and reporting of key risk metrics to senior management and the board of directors; and      

ensure that there is an on-going, and forward-looking, capital planning process to support our risk taking activities. 
         Primary risk types       The understanding, identification and management of risk are essential elements for the successful management of BNY Mellon. Our primary risk exposures are:   

Type of risk   
     
   Description    
 
     Operational    
     
  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors
and systems, or from external events.   
 
     Market    
     
  The risk of loss due to adverse changes in the financial markets. Market risk arises
from derivative financial instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, and other financial instruments, including loans, securities, deposits, and other borrowings. Our market risks are primarily interest rate and foreign exchange
risk, equity risk and credit risk.   
 
     Credit    
     
  The possible loss we would suffer if any of our borrowers or other counterparties were
to default on their obligations to us. Credit risk arises primarily from lending, trading, and securities servicing activities.    
   Operational risk        Overview    
  In providing a comprehensive array of products and services, we are exposed to operational risk. Operational risk may result from, but is not limited to,
errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside

BNY
Mellon     59   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

BNY Mellon or business interruption due to system failures or other events. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with
applicable laws and/or regulatory requirements. In the case of an operational event, we could suffer a financial loss as well as damage to our reputation. We continue to improve our ability to gather and monitor our risk information across the
enterprise.      To address these risks, we maintain comprehensive policies and procedures and an internal control framework designed to provide a
sound operational environment. These controls have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate levels given our financial strength, the business environment and markets in which we operate, the nature of our businesses, and considering
factors such as competition and regulation. Our internal auditors and internal control group monitor and test the overall effectiveness of the internal control and financial reporting systems on an ongoing basis.   
  We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed on a
uniform basis. Among the procedures designed to ensure effectiveness are our  Code of Conduct,   Know Your Customer,  and compliance training programs.       Operational risk management       We have established operational risk management as an
independent risk discipline. The Operational Risk Management ( ORM ) Group reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The organizational framework for operational risk is based upon a strong risk culture that incorporates both governance and risk
management activities comprising:       

Board Oversight and Governance   The Risk Committee of the Board approves and oversees our operational risk management strategy in addition to
credit and market risk. The Risk Committee meets regularly to review and approve operational risk management initiatives, discuss key risk issues, and review the effectiveness of the risk management systems.      

Accountability of Businesses   Business managers are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls commensurate with their
risk profiles and in accordance with BNY Mellon policies and procedures.

ORM Group   The ORM Group is responsible for developing risk management policies and tools for assessing, measuring, monitoring and managing
operational risk for BNY Mellon. The primary objectives of the ORM group are to promote effective risk management, identify emerging risks, create incentives for generating continuous improvement in controls, and to optimize capital.
         Market risk       In
addition to the Risk Committee and SRMC, oversight of market risk is performed by certain committees and through executive review meetings. Detailed reviews of derivative trading positions and of all model validations/stress tests results are
conducted during the Global Markets Weekly Risk Review. Senior managers from Risk Management and Sales and Trading attend the review.   
  Business Risk meetings for the Global Markets and Capital Markets businesses also provide a forum for market risk oversight. The goal of Business Risk
meetings, which are held at least quarterly, is to review key risk and control issues and related initiatives facing all lines of business including Global Markets and Capital Markets. The following activities are also addressed during Business
Risks meetings:       

Reporting of all new Monitoring Limits and changes to existing limits;      

Monitoring of trading exposures, VaR, market sensitivities and stress testing results; and      

Reporting results of all model validations.         The Derivatives Documentation Committee reviews and approves variations in the Company s documentation standards as it relates to derivative transactions. In addition, this committee reviews all
outstanding confirmations to identify potential exposure to the Company. Finally, the Risk Quantification and Modelling Committee validates and reviews backtesting results.       Credit risk       To balance the value of our activities with the credit risk incurred in pursuing them,
we set and monitor internal credit limits for activities that entail credit risk, most often on the size of the exposure and the maximum maturity of credit extended. For credit exposures driven by changing market rates and prices, exposure measures
include an add-on for such potential changes.   

60     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   We manage credit risk at both the individual exposure level as well as at the portfolio level. Credit risk
at the individual exposure level is managed through our credit approval system of Credit Portfolio Managers ( CPMs ) and the Chief Credit Officer ( CCO ). The CPMs and CCO are responsible for approving the size, terms and
maturity of all credit exposures as well as the ongoing monitoring of the exposures. In addition, they are responsible for assigning and maintaining the risk ratings on each exposure.      Credit risk management at the portfolio level is supported by Enterprise Risk Architecture ( ERA ), formerly the Portfolio Management Division within the Risk Management and Compliance Sector.
The ERA is responsible for calculating two fundamental credit measures. First, we project a statistically expected credit loss, used to help determine the appropriate loan loss reserve and to measure customer profitability. Expected loss considers
three basic components: the estimated size of the exposure whenever default might occur, the probability of default before maturity and the severity of the loss we would incur, commonly called  loss given default.  For Institutional,
Wealth and Commercial Real Estate, where most of our credit risk is created, unfunded commitments are assigned a usage given default percentage. Borrowers/Counterparties are assigned ratings by CPMs and the CCO on an 18-grade scale, which translate
to a scaled probability of default. Additionally, transactions are assigned loss-given-default ratings (on a 12-grade scale) that reflect the transactions  structures including the effects of guarantees, collateral, and relative seniority of
position.      The second fundamental measurement of credit risk calculated by the ERA is called economic capital. Our economic capital model
estimates the capital required to support the overall credit risk portfolio. Using a Monte Carlo simulation engine and measures of correlation among borrower defaults, the economic model examines extreme and highly unlikely scenarios of portfolio
credit loss in order to estimate credit-related capital, and then allocates that capital to individual borrowers and exposures. The credit-related capital calculation supports a second tier of policy standards and limits by serving as an input to
both profitability analysis and concentration limits of capital at risk with any one borrower, industry or country.      The ERA is responsible
for the calculation methodologies and the estimates of the inputs used in those methodologies for the determination of expected

loss and economic capital. These methodologies and input estimates are regularly evaluated to ensure their appropriateness and accuracy. As new techniques and data become available, the ERA
attempts to incorporate, where appropriate, those techniques or data.      Credit risk is intrinsic to much of the banking business and necessary
to its smooth functioning. However, BNY Mellon seeks to limit both on and off-balance sheet credit risk through prudent underwriting and the use of capital only where risk-adjusted returns warrant. We seek to manage risk and improve our portfolio
diversification through syndications, asset sales, credit enhancements, credit derivatives, and active collateralization and netting agreements. In addition, we have a separate Credit Risk Review group, which is part of Internal Audit, made up of
experienced loan review officers who perform timely reviews of the loan files and credit ratings assigned to the loans.       Global compliance
      Our global compliance function provides leadership, guidance, and oversight to help our businesses identify applicable laws and
regulations and implement effective measures to meet the specific requirements. Compliance takes a proactive approach by anticipating evolving regulatory standards and remaining aware of industry best practices, legislative initiatives, competitive
issues, and public expectations and perceptions. The function uses its global reach to disseminate information about compliance-related matters throughout BNY Mellon. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer reports to the Chief Risk Officer, is a
member of key committees of BNY Mellon and provides regular updates to the Audit and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors.       Internal
audit       Our internal audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Internal audit utilizes a risk-based
approach to its audit activity covering the risks in the operational, compliance, regulatory, technology, fraud, processing and other key risk areas of BNY Mellon. Internal Audit has unrestricted access to BNY Mellon and regularly participates in
key committees of BNY Mellon.       Economic capital       BNY Mellon has implemented a methodology to quantify economic capital. We define economic capital as the capital required to protect against

BNY
Mellon     61   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

unexpected economic losses over a one-year period at a level consistent with the solvency of a firm with a target debt rating. We quantify economic capital requirements for the risks inherent in
our business activities using statistical modeling techniques and then aggregate them at the consolidated level. A capital reduction, or diversification benefit, is applied to reflect the unlikely event of experiencing an extremely large loss in
each type of risk at the same time. Economic capital levels are directly related to our risk profile. As such, it has become a part of our internal capital assessment process and, along with regulatory capital, is a key component to ensuring that
the actual level of capital is commensurate with our risk profile, and is sufficient to provide the financial flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives.      The framework and methodologies to quantify each of our risk types have been developed by the ERA and are designed to be consistent with our risk management principles. The framework has been approved by
senior management and has been reviewed by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Due to the evolving nature of quantification techniques, we expect to continue to refine the methodologies used to estimate our economic capital requirements.
        Trading activities and risk management       Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers. The risk from these market-making activities and from our own positions is managed by our traders and limited in total
exposure through a system of position limits, a value-at-risk ( VAR ) methodology based on a Monte Carlo simulation, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures. See Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information on the VAR methodology.      The following tables indicate the calculated VAR amounts for the trading
portfolio for the years ended Dec. 31, 2010, and 2009.       

(a)   
   VAR figures do not reflect the impact of the credit valuation adjustment guidance in ASC 820. This is consistent with the treatment under our regulatory
requirements.      

N/M   
   - Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.
        During 2010, interest rate risk generated 46% of average VAR, credit risk generated 5% of average VAR, equity risk
generated 28% of average VAR, and foreign exchange risk accounted for 21% of average VAR. During 2010, our daily trading loss did not exceed our calculated VAR amount of the overall portfolio on any given day.   
  BNY Mellon monitors a volatility index of global currency using a basket of 30 major currencies. In 2010, the volatility of this index decreased
approximately 18 basis points from 2009.      The following table of total daily trading revenue or loss illustrates the number of trading days in
which our trading revenue or loss fell within particular ranges during the past year.       

(a)   
   Distribution of trading revenues (losses) does not reflect the impact of the credit valuation adjustment guidance in ASC 820. This is consistent with the treatment
under our regulatory requirements.            Foreign exchange and other trading    
  Under our mark-to-market methodology for derivative contracts, an initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming
time-discounting based on a AA credit curve. In addition, we consider credit risk in arriving at the fair value of our derivatives.

62     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
  
   As required by ASC 820    Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , we reflect external credit
ratings as well as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions.      Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as those of our counterparties. In addition, in cases where a counterparty is
deemed impaired, further analyses are performed to value such positions.      At Dec. 31, 2010, our over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative
assets of $4.3 billion included a credit valuation adjustment ( CVA ) deduction of $78 million, including $27 million related to the declining credit quality of CDO counterparties and Lehman. Our OTC derivative liabilities of
$5.3 billion included debit valuation adjustments ( DVA ) of $30 million related to our own credit spread. In 2010, we charged-off a $38 million realized loss against the CVA reserves. The CVA, net of the charge-off, decreased
foreign exchange and other trading revenue

$2 million in 2010. Adjustments to our own credit spread, the DVA, did not impact foreign exchange and other trading revenue in 2010.   
  At Dec. 31, 2009, our OTC derivative assets of $4.8 billion included a CVA deduction of $114 million, including $61 million related to the
declining credit quality of CDO counterparties. Our OTC derivative liabilities of $4.6 billion included $30 million of DVA related to our own credit spread.      Adjustments to the CVA and DVA decreased foreign exchange and other trading activities revenue by $38 million in 2009. Adjustments to our own credit spread decreased foreign exchange and other
trading activities revenue by $15 million in 2009.      The table below summarizes the risk ratings for our foreign exchange and interest
rate derivative counterparty credit exposure. This information indicates the degree of risk to which we are exposed and significant changes in ratings classifications for which our foreign exchange and other trading activity could result in
increased risk for us.   

(a)   
   Represents credit rating agency equivalent of internal credit ratings.      
    
      Asset/liability management       Our diversified business activities include processing securities, accepting deposits, investing in securities, lending, raising money as needed to fund assets, and other transactions. The market risks
from these activities are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. Our primary market risk is exposure to movements in U.S. dollar interest rates and certain foreign currency interest rates. We actively manage interest rate sensitivity and use
earnings simulation and discounted cash flow models to identify interest rate exposures.      An earnings simulation model is the primary tool
used to assess changes in pre-tax net interest revenue. The model incorporates management s assumptions regarding interest rates, balance changes on core

deposits, market spreads, changes in the prepayment behavior of loans and securities and the impact of derivative financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. These
assumptions have been developed through a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior and are inherently uncertain. As a result, the earnings simulation model cannot precisely estimate net interest revenue or the impact
of higher or lower interest rates on net interest revenue. Actual results may differ from projected results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, and changes in market conditions and management s strategies, among
other factors.      These scenarios do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations
change. The table below   

BNY
Mellon     63   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

relies on certain critical assumptions regarding the balance sheet and depositors  behavior related to interest rate fluctuations and the prepayment and extension risk in certain of our
assets. To the extent that actual behavior is different from that assumed in the models, there could be a change in interest rate sensitivity.   
  We evaluate the effect on earnings by running various interest rate ramp scenarios from a baseline scenario. These scenarios are reviewed to examine the
impact of large interest rate movements. Interest rate sensitivity is quantified by calculating the change in pre-tax net interest revenue between the scenarios over a 12-month measurement period.   
  The following table shows net interest revenue sensitivity for BNY Mellon:   

(a)   
   Long-term is equal to or greater than one year.         The baseline scenario s Fed Funds rate in the Dec. 31, 2010, analysis was 0.25%. The 100 basis point ramp scenario assumes short-term rates change 25 basis points in each of the next four quarters
and the 200 basis point ramp scenario assumes a 50 basis point per quarter change. The up 200 basis point and the up 100 basis point Dec. 31, 2010, scenarios assume 10-year rates rising 92 and 63 basis points, respectively.   
  We also project future cash flows from our assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon and then discount these cash flows using instantaneous
parallel shocks to prevailing interest rates. This measure reflects the structural balance sheet interest rate sensitivity by discounting all future cash flows. The aggregation of these discounted cash flows is the Economic Value of Equity
( EVE ). The following table shows how the EVE would change in response to changes in interest rates:       
    These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change.

The asymmetrical accounting treatment of the impact of a change in interest rates on our balance sheet may
create a situation in which an increase in interest rates can adversely affect reported equity and regulatory capital, even though economically there may be no impact on our economic capital position. For example, an increase in rates will result in
a decline in the value of our fixed income investment portfolio, which will be reflected through a reduction in other comprehensive income in our shareholders  equity, thereby affecting our tangible common equity ( TCE ) ratios. Under
current accounting rules, to the extent the fair value option provided in ASC 825 is not applied, there is no corresponding change on our fixed liabilities, even though economically these liabilities are more valuable as rates rise.   
  We project the impact of this change using the same interest rate shock assumptions described earlier and compare the projected mark-to-market on the
investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2010, under the higher rate environments versus a stable rate scenario. The table below shows the impact of a change in interest rates on the TCE ratio:   
   
    These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change.      To manage foreign exchange risk, we fund foreign currency-denominated assets with liability instruments denominated in the same currency. We utilize various foreign exchange contracts if a liability
denominated in the same currency is not available or desired, and to minimize the earnings impact of translation gains or losses created by investments in foreign markets. The foreign exchange risk related to the interest rate spread on foreign
currency-denominated asset/liability positions is managed as part of our trading activities. We use forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of our net investment in foreign operations. At Dec. 31, 2010, net investments in foreign
operations totaled approximately $9.4 billion and were spread across 14 foreign currencies.         Business continuity
      We are prepared for events that could damage our physical facilities, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, including
telecommunications   

64     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

networks, or impair our employees, clients, vendors and counterparties. Key elements of our business continuity strategies are extensive planning and testing, and diversity of business
operations, data centers and telecommunications infrastructure.      We have established multiple geographically diverse locations for our funds
transfer and broker-dealer services operational units, which provide redundant functionality to facilitate uninterrupted operations.      Our
securities clearing, mutual fund accounting and custody, securities lending, master trust, Unit Investment Trust, corporate trust, stock transfer, item processing, wealth management and treasury units have common functionality in multiple sites
designed to facilitate continuance of operations or rapid recovery. In addition, we have recovery positions for over 12,800 employees on a global basis of which over 8,000 are proprietary.      We continue to enhance geographic diversity for business operations by moving additional personnel to growth centers outside of existing major urban centers. We replicate 100% of our critical production
computer data to multiple recovery data centers.      We have an active telecommunications diversity program. All major buildings and data centers
have diverse telecommunications carriers. The data centers have multiple fiber optic rings and have been designed so that there is no single point of failure.      All major buildings have been designed with diverse telecommunications access and connect to at least two geographically dispersed connection points. We have an active program to audit circuits for route
diversity and to test customer back-up connections.      In 2003, the Federal Reserve, OCC and SEC jointly published the Interagency Paper,
 Sound Practices to Strengthen the Resilience of the U.S. Financial System  ( Sound Practices Paper ). The purpose of the document was to define the guidelines for the financial services industry and other interested parties

regarding  best practices  related to business continuity planning. Under these guidelines, we are a key clearing and settlement organization required to meet a higher standard for
business continuity.      We believe we have substantially met all of the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper. As a core clearing and
settlement organization, we believe that we are at the forefront of the industry in improving business continuity practices.      We are committed
to seeing that requirements for business continuity are met not just within our own facilities, but also within those of vendors and service providers whose operation is critical to our safety and soundness. To that end, we have a Service Provider
Management Office whose function is to review new and existing service providers and vendors to see that they meet our standards for business continuity, as well as for information security, financial stability, and personnel practices, etc.
     We have developed a comprehensive plan to prepare for the possibility of a flu pandemic, which anticipates significant reduced staffing
levels and will provide for increased remote working by staff for one or more periods lasting several weeks.      Although we are committed to
observing best practices as well as meeting regulatory requirements, geopolitical uncertainties and other external factors will continue to create risk that cannot always be identified and anticipated.   
  Due to BNY Mellon s robust business recovery systems and processes, we are not materially impacted by climate change, nor do we expect material
impacts in the near term. We have and will continue to implement processes and capital projects to deal with the risks of the changing climate. The company has invested in the development of products and services that support the markets related to
climate change.   

BNY
Mellon     65   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)                    
 
      Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures    
  BNY Mellon has included in this Annual Report certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders  equity. BNY Mellon
believes that the ratio of tangible common shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations is a measure of capital strength that provides additional useful information to investors, supplementing the Tier 1 capital ratio which is utilized
by regulatory authorities. Unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, the tangible common shareholders  equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders  equity. In addition,
this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has excluded certain
assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. This ratio is also informative to investors in BNY Mellon s common stock because, unlike the Tier 1 capital ratio, it excludes trust preferred securities issued by
BNY Mellon. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of
BNY Mellon s performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income.      BNY Mellon has provided a measure of
tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures which exclude the effect of net
securities gains (losses), SILO/LILO charges and noncontrolling interests related to consolidated asset management funds; expense measures which exclude restructuring charges, an FDIC special assessment, support agreement charges, asset-based taxes,
M I expenses, special litigation reserves and amortization of intangible assets; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as the benefit of tax settlements and discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages.
Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude some or all of these items are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which
relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon s control. The excluded items in general relate

to situations where accounting rules require certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions, or where valuation or other accounting/regulatory requirements require charges unrelated to
operational initiatives. M I expenses primarily relate to the merger with Mellon Financial Corporation in 2007 and the Acquisitions in 2010. M I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on
a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon s business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after
such M I expenses have ceased, typically after approximately three years. Future periods will not reflect such M I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M I expenses are excluded. With regards to the
exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon s primary businesses are Asset and Wealth Management and Institutional Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate
fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon s investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other group of businesses. The primary objective of the
investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY Mellon s processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. With
regards to higher yields related to the restructured investment securities portfolio, client deposits serve as the primary funding source for our investment securities portfolio and we typically allocate all interest revenue to the businesses
generating the deposits. Accordingly, the higher yield related to the restructured investment securities portfolio has been included in the results of our businesses. The SILO/LILO charges relate to a one-time settlement with the IRS of tax
structured lease transactions in 2008. BNY Mellon believes that excluding the SILO/LILO charges from net interest revenue provides investors with a clearer impact of the net interest margin generated on our interest-earning assets. Restructuring
charges relate to migrating positions to global growth centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding the discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages and the benefit of tax settlements permits investors to calculate the tax
impact of BNY Mellon s primary businesses.      The presentation of financial measures excluding special litigation reserves provides
investors with the ability to view performance metrics on the basis that management views results. The presentation of income

66     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

of consolidated asset management funds, net of noncontrolling interests related to the consolidation of certain asset management funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent
with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.      In this Annual Report, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation

provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.
     Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and on a
business-level basis.   

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      

(c)   
   Income (loss) before taxes divided by total revenue.      
         BNY
Mellon     67   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

68     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Results for 2006 include legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      
         BNY
Mellon     69   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis using Tier 1 capital as determined under Basel 1 guidelines. Includes discontinued operations.      

(b)   
   Legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc. only.      
      
  70     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 
      Rate/volume analysis    

(a)   
   Changes which are solely due to balance changes or rate changes are allocated to such categories on the basis of the respective percentage changes in average
balances and average rates. Changes in interest revenue or interest expense arising from the combination of rate and volume variances are allocated proportionately to rate and volume based on their relative absolute magnitudes.
     
         BNY
Mellon     71   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments    

ASU 2010-29 Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations
      In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29,  Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations. 
This ASU specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity would disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as
of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. This ASU also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments
directly attributable to the business combination. The ASU was effective prospectively for business combinations consummated on or after Jan. 1, 2011.       ASU 2011-01 Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010-20       In January 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-01,  Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010-20.  This ASU temporarily delays the
effective date of the disclosures about troubled debt restructurings in Update 2010-20 for public entities. The delay is intended to allow the FASB time to complete its deliberations on what constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. The guidance is
anticipated to be effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2011.       Proposed ASU Accounting for Financial
Instruments and Revisions to the Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities       In May 2010, the FASB issued Proposed ASU,
 Accounting for Financial Instruments and Revisions to the Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  Under this proposed ASU, most financial instruments would be measured at fair value in the balance sheet. In January
2011, the FASB determined preliminarily not to require certain financial assets to be measured at fair value on the balance sheet. The decision is subject to change until a final financial instruments standard is issued, which is expected later in
2011.      Measurement of a financial instrument would be determined based on its characteristics and an entity s

business strategy and would fall into one of the following three classifications:       

Fair value Net income encompasses financial assets used in an entity s trading or held-for-sale activities. Changes in fair value would
be recognized in net income.      

Fair value Other comprehensive income includes financial assets held primarily for investing activities, including those used to manage
interest rate or liquidity risk. Changes in fair value would be recognized in other comprehensive income.      

Amortized cost includes financial assets related to the advancement of funds (through a lending or customer-financing activity) that are managed
with the intent to collect those cash flows (including interest and fees).         The Board tentatively decided that the business
strategy should be determined by the business activities that an entity uses in acquiring and managing financial assets.       Supplementary
Document Impairment       On Jan. 31, 2011, the FASB issued a Supplementary Document,  Impairment . The Supplementary Document
proposes to replace the incurred loss impairment models under U.S. GAAP with an expected loss impairment model. The document focuses on when and how credit impairment should be recognized. The proposal is limited to open portfolios of assets such as
portfolios that are constantly changing, through originations, purchases, transfers, write-offs, sales and repayments. The proposal in the Supplementary Document would apply to loans and debt instruments under U.S. GAAP that are managed on an
 open  portfolio basis provided they are not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. Comments on this proposal are due on April 1, 2011.       Proposed ASU Amendments for Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs       In June 2010, the FASB issued Proposed ASU,  Amendments for Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.  This proposed ASU would change the wording used to
describe many of the principles and requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value

72     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

measurements, and would change how the fair value measurement guidance in ASC 820 is applied. This proposed ASU would also require several new disclosures: (a) measurement uncertainty
disclosures, (b) reasons if an entity s use of an asset is different from its highest and best use, and (c) fair value hierarchy disclosures for financial instruments not measured at fair value. Comments on this proposed ASU were due
on Sept. 7, 2010. The effective date will be determined after the FASB considers the feedback on this proposed ASU.       Proposed
ASU Revenue from Contracts with Customers       In June 2010, the FASB issued Proposed ASU,  Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.  This proposed ASU is the result of a joint project of the FASB and IASB to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and develop a common standard for U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This proposed ASU would establish a broad principle that
would require an entity to identify the contract with a customer, identify the separate performance obligations in the contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the separate performance obligations and recognize
revenue when each separate performance obligation is satisfied. In February 2011, the FASB and IASB revised several aspects of the original proposal to include distinguishing between goods and services, segmenting contracts, accounting for warranty
obligations, and deferring contract origination costs. The FASB and IASB plan to issue a final standard in June 2011.       Proposed
ASU Disclosure of Certain Loss Contingencies       In July 2010, the FASB issued Proposed ASU,  Disclosure of Certain Loss
Contingencies.  This proposed ASU would require an entity to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about loss contingencies to enable financial statement users to understand the nature of loss contingencies, their potential
magnitude and their potential timing (if known). Available information may be limited during the early stages of a loss contingency s life cycle and therefore, disclosure may be less extensive in early stages of a loss contingency. In
subsequent reporting periods, disclosure may be more extensive as additional information about a potentially unfavorable outcome becomes available. Additionally, an entity may aggregate disclosures about similar contingencies so that the disclosures
are understandable and not too detailed. An entity would also then disclose the basis

for aggregation. On Oct. 27, 2010, the FASB announced that is has decided to rule out a 2010 effective date. The FASB did not project a new proposed effective date pending its redeliberations on
the proposal.       FASB and IASB project on Leases       In August 2010, the FASB and IASB issued a joint Proposed ASU,  Leases.  This proposed ASU would require that lessees and lessors apply a right of use model in accounting for all leases,
including leases of right of use assets in subleases (other than leases of biological and intangible assets, leases to explore for or use natural resources and leases of some investment property). The model would require lessees to recognize an
asset representing the right to use the underlying property over the estimated lease term (the right of use asset) and a liability to make future lease payments in their balance sheet. Lessees would no longer classify each lease as either operating
or capital, and the model would fundamentally change the accounting and reporting of leases currently classified as operating leases and substantially increase both assets and liabilities of lessees. A lessor would recognize an asset representing
its right to receive lease payments and, depending on its exposure to risks or benefits associated with the underlying asset, would either recognize a lease liability while continuing to recognize the underlying asset (performance obligation
approach), or derecognize the rights in the underlying asset that it transfers to the lessee and continue to recognize a residual asset representing its rights to the underlying asset at the end of the lease term (derecognition approach). Comments
on this proposed ASU were due on Dec. 15, 2010. The effective date will be determined after the FASB considers the feedback on this proposed ASU.       Proposed ASU How the Carrying Amount of a Reporting Unit Should Be Calculated When Performing Step 1 of the Goodwill Impairment Test       In October 2010, the FASB issued Proposed ASU ,   How the Carrying Amount of a Reporting Unit Should Be Calculated When Performing Step 1 of the Goodwill Impairment Test.  This proposed ASU
would clarify that the equity premise is the only method an entity can use for purposes of calculating the carrying amount of a reporting unit. The equity premise reflects the net amount of all of the assets and liabilities assigned to the reporting
unit(s) of a reporting entity. Additionally, this proposed ASU would modify Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test

BNY
Mellon     73   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity would be required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if there are adverse
qualitative factors that indicate that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. The qualitative factors are consistent with existing guidance. Lastly, this proposed ASU does not allow any previously recognized goodwill
impairment taken as a result of applying an alternative premise before adopting this proposed ASU to be reversed. Comments on this proposed ASU were due on Nov. 5, 2010. This proposed ASU would be effective for annual and interim periods beginning
Jan. 1, 2011.       Proposed ASU Clarifications to Accounting for Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors    
  In October 2010, the FASB issued Proposed ASU,  Clarifications to Accounting for Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors.  This proposed ASU
would provide clarifying guidance for creditors when determining whether they granted concessions and whether the debtor is experiencing financial difficulty. Comments on this proposed ASU were due on Dec. 13, 2010. The FASB has tentatively decided
for purposes of measuring impairment of a receivable restructured in a troubled debt restructuring, this proposed ASU would be effective on a prospective basis for restructurings occurring on or after Jan. 1, 2011. Creditors would be precluded from
using the borrower s effective rate test to assess whether a restructuring is troubled. Furthermore, the proposed ASU would specify that the absence of a market rate for a loan with risks similar to the restructured loan is an indicator of a
troubled debt restructuring, but not a determinative factor, and that the assessment should consider all of the modified terms of the restructuring, including any additional collateral or guarantees. For purposes of identifying and disclosing
troubled debt restructurings, this proposed ASU would be effective for interim and annual periods ending June 30, 2011.       Proposed
ASU Offsetting       In January 2011, the FASB issued Proposed ASU,  Offsetting . Under this proposal an entity would be
required to offset a recognized financial asset and a recognized financial liability when it has an unconditional and legally enforceable right of setoff and intends either to settle the financial asset and financial liability on a net basis or to
realize the financial asset and settle the financial liability simultaneously. An entity that fails to satisfy either criterion would be prohibited from offsetting the

financial asset and the financial liability in the statement of financial position. This proposal would require an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to
enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. Comments on this proposed ASU are due on April 28, 2011.       Adoption of new accounting standards       For a discussion of the adoption of new accounting
standards, see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Regulatory developments    
   Evolving regulatory environment       On
July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ). This new law broadly affects the financial services industry by establishing a framework for systemic risk
oversight, creating a resolution authority for institutions determined to be systemically important, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and containing numerous other
provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. It will fundamentally change the system of oversight described under  Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of our Annual
Report on Form 10-K. Many aspects of the law are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact to BNY Mellon or across the industry.   
  We are currently assessing the following regulatory developments, which may have an impact on BNY Mellon s business.   
   FDIC assessment base and rates changes    
  On Feb. 7, 2011 the FDIC approved a final rule on Assessments, Dividends, Assessment Base and Large Bank Pricing. The rule implements changes to the
deposit insurance assessment system that mandates the Dodd-Frank Act to require the FDIC to amend the assessment base used for calculating deposit insurance assessments. Consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, the rule defines the assessment base to be
average consolidated total assets of the insured depository   

74     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

institution during the assessment period, minus average tangible equity and in certain cases, adjustments for custody and banker s banks.   
  The FDIC rule adjusts the assessment base for custodial banks in recognition of the fact that such banks need to hold liquid assets to facilitate the
payments and processes associated with their custody and safekeeping accounts. The rule limits the custody bank assessment adjustment to 0% risk-weighted assets plus 50% of those assets with a Basel risk-weighting of 20%, up to the average amount of
deposit transaction accounts on the custodial bank s balance sheet which can be directly linked to fiduciary or custody and safekeeping accounts.      The rule also adjusts the assessment rates to mitigate the impact of the expanded assessment base on the overall amount of assessment revenue. The base rate schedule, which includes adjustments for
unsecured debt, depository institution debt and brokered deposits, also creates a separate category for large and highly complex institutions ( this category would include both The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.). The proposal provides
a broad range of assessment rates (2.5-45 basis points) for large and highly complex institutions.      BNY Mellon expects the FDIC assessment
rule to have a minimal impact in 2011.       FDIC Restoration Plan       On Oct. 19, 2010, the FDIC proposed a comprehensive, long-range plan for Deposit Insurance Fund management and adopted a Restoration Plan. The Restoration Plan will forego the uniform 3 basis point
assessment rate increase previously scheduled to go in effect Jan. 1, 2011, and keep the current rate schedule in effect. Current assessment rates will remain in effect until the reserve ratio reaches 1.15%, which is expected to occur at the end of
2018. The Restoration Plan also increases the designated reserve ratio, pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, to 1.35% by Sept. 30, 2020, rather than 1.15% by the end of 2016, and calls for the FDIC to pursue further rulemaking in 2011
regarding the statutory requirement that the FDIC offset the effect on small institutions of this requirement. The Restoration Plan is effective immediately.       Federal Reserve s assessment of comprehensive capital plans       On Nov. 17, 2010, the
Federal Reserve issued Revised Temporary Addendum to SR letter 09-4. The letter

described the process the Federal Reserve will follow to assess comprehensive capital plans of the 19 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program bank holding companies including any request to
take capital actions such as increased dividends or stock buybacks. The comprehensive capital plans, which were prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, included bank developed baseline and stress projections as well as a supervisory stress
projection using adverse macroeconomic assumptions provided by the Federal Reserve.      The Company also provided the Federal Reserve with
projections covering the time period it will take us to fully comply with Basel III capital guidelines, including the 7% Tier 1 common, 8.5% Tier 1 and 3% leverage ratios. Certain templates were submitted to the Federal Reserve on Dec. 22, 2010, and
the capital plan was filed by Jan. 7, 2011. The Federal Reserve is expected to provide a response to first quarter capital actions, such as a dividend increase and share repurchases, no later than March 21, 2011, and feedback on the
comprehensive capital plan by April 30, 2011.       Establishment of a Risk-Based Capital Floor    
  In December 2010, the regulatory agencies issued a notice of proposed rulemaking ( NPR ) which would amend the advanced risk-based capital
adequacy standards to be consistent with provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and also amend the general risk-based capital rules to provide additional flexibility and to create capital requirements for certain assets not held by depository
institutions. The NPR would revise the advanced approaches rule by replacing the transitional floors set forth by the Basel Committee with a permanent risk-based capital floor.      The Dodd-Frank Act states that applicable agencies will establish minimum risk-based capital requirements that shall not be less than the  generally applicable  capital requirements, which shall
serve as a floor for any capital requirements the agencies may require. The proposed permanent floor will equal the Tier 1 and total risk-based capital requirements under the current generally applicable risk-based capital rules. Each quarter the
minimum Tier 1 capital ratio and the total risk-based capital ratio must be calculated under both the general risk-based capital rules and the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules and then the lower of both the Tier 1 and total risk-based
capital ratios must be used.   

BNY
Mellon     75   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

Comments on the NPR must be received by Feb. 28, 2011. This NPR is not expected to have a significant
impact on banking organizations.       FDIC s Executive Compensation Proposal       The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines regarding incentive-based compensation practices at certain financial institutions. On Feb. 7, 2011, the FDIC issued
an interagency NPR which, among other things, would require certain executive officers of covered financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as ours, to defer at least 50% of their annual incentive-based
compensation for a minimum of three years. The NPR will be published for a 45-day comment period following approval by all of the other agencies involved in the rulemaking, including the Federal Reserve and the SEC.   
   Capital requirements       The U.S. federal bank
regulatory agencies  risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). The Basel Committee issued in June 2004 and updated in November 2005 a
revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known Basel II that sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements for credit risk. In the United States, regulators are mandating the adoption of Basel II
for  core  banks. BNY Mellon and its depository institution subsidiaries are  core  banks. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk
and the Advanced Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for operational risk. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel
Committee as  Basel III . Additional information on Basel II and Basel III is presented below.       Basel II    
  In the U.S., Basel II became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2009 was the first year for a bank to begin its first of three
transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old guidelines and new guidelines. As previously mentioned, the regulatory agencies have proposed to eliminate the
transitional floor periods under Basel II.   
 
   Beginning Jan. 1, 2008 we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach in the United Kingdom, Belgium and
Luxembourg. In the U.S., BNY Mellon began the Basel II parallel run in the second quarter of 2010. Our capital models are currently with the Federal Reserve for their approval. Under Basel II guidelines, our risk-weighted assets for credit risk
exposures are expected to decline. However, we expect the Basel II requirement that operational risk be included in risk-weighted assets will more than offset the decline in credit exposure. Under Basel I, securitizations that fall below investment
grade are included in risk-weighted assets. Under Basel II, securitizations that fall below investment grade are deducted 50% from Tier 1 and 50% from total capital.      Based on our current estimates for Basel II at Dec. 31, 2010, our Tier 1 and Total capital ratios would have exceeded well-capitalized guidelines.       Basel III       Under Basel III standards, when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, banking
institutions will be required to satisfy three risk-based capital ratios:       

A Tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 7.0%, 4.5% attributable to a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio and 2.5% attributable to a  capital
conservation buffer       

A Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0%, exclusive of the capital conservation buffer (8.5% upon full implementation of the capital conservation
buffer); and      

A total capital ratio of at least 8.0%, exclusive of the capital conservation buffer (10.5% upon full implementation of the capital conservation
buffer).         Basel III also provides for a  countercyclical capital buffer,  generally to be imposed when national
regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a Tier 1 capital add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially
resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).      The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic
stress. Banking institutions with a Tier 1 common equity ratio above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face
constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.   

76     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

The phase-in of the new rules is to commence on Jan. 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be
required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:       

3.5% Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets;      

4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and      

8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.         The phase-in of the capital conservation buffer will commence on Jan. 1, 2016, and the rules will be fully phased-in by Jan. 1, 2019.      For systemically important banks, the Federal Reserve may increase the capital buffer. The purpose of these new capital requirements is to ensure financial institutions are better capitalized to withstand
periods of unfavorable financial and economic conditions. These capital rules are subject to interpretation and implementation by U.S. regulatory authorities.      Under Basel III, certain items, to the extent they exceed 10% of Tier 1 capital individually, or 15% of Tier 1 capital in the aggregate, would be deducted from our capital. These items include:

Deferred tax assets that arise from timing differences; and      

Significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions.         At Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon did not exceed the 15% threshold, but we exceeded the 10% threshold for significant investment in unconsolidated financial institutions by approximately $500 million.
     Also, pension assets recorded on the balance sheet are a deduction from capital, and Basel III does not add back to capital the adjustment to
other comprehensive income that Basel I and Basel II make for pension liabilities and available-for-sale-securities.      Similar to Basel II, the
Basel III proposal also incorporates the risk-weighted asset impact of operational risk, which will be partially offset by a decline in credit exposure.      Additionally, Basel III changes the treatment of securitizations that fall below investment grade. Under Basel II guidelines, securitizations that fall below investment grade are deducted equally from
Tier I and total capital. However, under Basel III, banking institutions will be required to apply a 1,250% risk weight to these securitizations and include them as a component of risk-weighted assets.

Our fee-based model enables us to maintain a relatively low risk asset mix, primarily composed of
high-quality securities, central bank deposits, liquid placements and predominantly investment grade loans. As a result of our asset mix, we have the flexibility to manage to a lower level of risk-weighted assets over time.   
  Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change, we cannot be certain of the impact the new regulations will have on our capital ratios. However,
given our balance sheet strength and ongoing internal capital generation, we currently estimate that our Tier 1 common ratio, under Basel III guidelines, will be above 7% by Dec. 31, 2011. This estimated ratio includes an anticipated dividend
increase and potential share repurchases in 2011, assuming Federal Reserve approval.       Leverage Requirement    
  Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard. However, even though a leverage requirement has not been an
international standard in the past, the U.S. banking agencies  capital regulations do require bank holding companies and banks to comply with a minimum leverage ratio requirement (Basel III will impose a leverage requirement as an international
standard). The Federal Reserve Board s existing leverage ratio for bank holding companies is that the bank holding company maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory
purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The rules require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal
Reserve Board s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to
us. At Dec. 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was 5.8%. Also, the rules indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a  tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio  in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1
leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization s Tier 1 capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).   
   IFRS       International Financial Reporting
Standards ( IFRS ) are a set of standards and interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board. The

BNY
Mellon     77   

Table of Contents  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

SEC is currently considering a potential IFRS adoption process in the U.S., which would, in the near term, provide domestic issuers with an alternative accounting method and ultimately could
replace U.S. GAAP reporting requirements with IFRS reporting requirements. The intention of this adoption would be to provide the capital markets community with a single set of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards. The adoption of
IFRS for U.S. companies with global operations would allow for streamlined reporting, allow for easier access to foreign capital markets and investments, and facilitate cross-border acquisitions, ventures or spin-offs.   
  In November 2008, the SEC proposed a  roadmap  for phasing in mandatory IFRS filings by U.S. public companies. The roadmap is conditional on
progress towards milestones that would demonstrate improvements in both the infrastructure of international standard setting and the preparation of the U.S. financial reporting community. The SEC will monitor progress of these milestones through the
end of 2011, when the SEC plans to consider requiring U.S. public companies to adopt IFRS.

In February 2010, the SEC issued a statement confirming their position that they continue to believe that a
single set of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards would benefit U.S. investors. The SEC continues to support the dual goals of improving financial reporting in the U.S. and reducing country-by-country disparities in financial
reporting. The SEC is developing a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact of IFRS on the U.S. securities market. If the SEC determines in 2011 to incorporate IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system, and the work plan validates the
four-to-five year timeline for implementation, the first time that U.S. companies would be required to report under IFRS would be no earlier than 2015.      While the SEC decides whether IFRS will be required to be used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, a number of countries have mandated the use of IFRS by BNY Mellon s
subsidiaries in their statutory reports. Such countries include Belgium, Brazil, the Netherlands, Australia and Hong Kong. Other countries that have established an IFRS conversion time frame which will affect our statutory reporting include Canada
(2011), South Korea (2011), Argentina (2012), the United Kingdom (2013), Ireland (2013) and Taiwan (2013).   

78     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    

(a)   
   Amount does not foot due to rounding.      

(b)   
   Continuing operations basis.      

(d)   
   At period end.      
         BNY
Mellon     79   

Table of Contents  

Forward-looking Statements    

Some statements in this document are forward-looking. These include all statements about the future results
of BNY Mellon; projected business growth; BNY Mellon s plans and strategies, product launches, areas of focus and long-term financial goals; expectations with respect to litigation costs, the impact of FSCS levies and our effective tax rate for
2011; statements on the planned conversion of our wealth management acquisition and revenue expected from this acquisition; expectations with respect to fees and assets, factors affecting the performance of our businesses: the impact of foreign
exchange rates on our financial results and levels of assets under custody and management; descriptions of our critical accounting estimates, including management s estimates of probable losses; management s judgment in determining the
size of unallocated allowances, the effect of credit ratings on allowances, estimates and cash flow models; judgments and analyses with respect to interest rate swaps, estimates of fair value, other-than-temporary impairment, goodwill and other
intangibles, effects of delinquencies, default rates and loss severity assumptions on impairment losses; and long-term financial goals, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to: our focus on increasing the
percentage of revenue and income from outside the U.S.; expectations with respect to climate change, reasons why our businesses are compatible with our strategies and goals; growth in our businesses and assets; globalization of the investment
process; deposit levels; expectations with respect to earnings per share; assumptions with respect to pension plans, including expenses and expected future returns; statements with respect to our intent to sell or hold securities; expectations with
respect to our future exposure to private equity activities; statements on our credit strategies; goals with respect to our commercial loan portfolios; descriptions of our allowance for credit losses and loan losses; statements with respect to an
increase in our dividends and our liquidity targets; the effect of a significant reduction in our securities servicing business on our access to deposits; the impact of a change in rating agencies  method of review on BNY Mellon s ratings;
expectations with respect to capital, including anticipated repayment and call of outstanding securities; expectations with respect to our lines of credit; our goal of migrating to a predominantly investment grade credit portfolio; the effect of a
change in risk-weighted assets or common equity on Tier 1 capital, the effect of a change in interest rates on our earnings and the effect of a change in the value of the S P 500 Index; statements on our target double leverage ratios and our
target capital ratios; expectations with respect to the well

capitalized status of BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries; plans for and the effects of the implementation of Basel II and Basel III; compliance with the requirements of the Sound Practices
Paper; statements regarding maintaining a strong balance sheet and a superior debt rating; descriptions of our risk management framework; statements regarding risks that we may face and the impact of such risks; qualifications of our economic
capital; statements with respect to our risk management methodologies; descriptions of our earnings simulation models and assumptions; statements with respect to our business continuity plans; the effect of geopolitical factors and other external
factors on risk; timing and impact of adoption of recent accounting pronouncements; the overall financial impact of Dodd-Frank; the FDIC s rule regarding adjustments to the assessment base and the impact of the assessment rule; timing of the
Federal Reserve s response to capital actions and feedback on the capital plan; the FDIC s amendments to the risk-based capital standards and its impact on banking organizations; the FDIC s proposal regarding incentive-based
compensation; the impact of Basel II guidelines on risk-weighted assets; the Federal Reserve s plan regarding capital buffer; the SEC s plans regarding IFRS; ability to realize benefit of deferred tax assets including carryovers;
calculations of the fair value of our option grants; statements with respect to unrecognized tax benefits and compensation costs; our assessment of the adequacy of our accruals for tax liabilities; amount of dividends bank subsidiaries can pay
without regulatory waiver; estimations of reasonable possible loss with respect to legal proceedings and the expected outcome and impact of judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings, and
matters relating to the information returns and withholding tax.      In this report, any other report, any press release or any written or oral
statement that BNY Mellon or its executives may make, words, such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident,   target,   expect,   intend, 
 seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words
of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements.      Factors that could cause BNY Mellon s results to differ materially from those
described in the forward-looking statements, as well as other uncertainties affecting future results and the value of BNY Mellon s stock and factors which represent risk associated with the business and operations of BNY

80     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Forward-looking Statements    (continued)                 

Mellon, can be found in the  Risk Factors  section of BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, and any subsequent reports filed with the SEC by BNY
Mellon pursuant to the Exchange Act.      Forward-looking statements, including discussions and projections of future results of operations and
discussions of future plans contained in the MD A, are based on management s current expectations and assumptions that involve risk and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are
beyond BNY Mellon s control), including adverse changes in market conditions, and the timing of such changes, and the actions that management could take in response to these changes. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or
implied as a result of these

risks and uncertainties and the risks and uncertainties described in the documents referred to in the preceding paragraph. The  Risk Factors  discussed in the Form 10-K could cause or
contribute to such differences. Investors should consider all risks mentioned elsewhere in this document and in subsequent reports filed by BNY Mellon with the Commission pursuant to the Exchange Act, as well as other uncertainties affecting future
results and the value of BNY Mellon s stock.      All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made,
and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

BNY
Mellon     81   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    

Accumulated Benefit Obligation ( ABO )  The actuarial present value of benefits
(vested and non-vested) attributed to employee services rendered.       Alt-A securities  A mortgage risk categorization that falls
between prime and subprime. Borrowers behind these mortgages will typically have clean credit histories but the mortgage itself will generally have issues that increase its risk profile such as inadequate documentation of the borrower s income
or higher loan-to-value and debt-to-income ratios.       Alternative investments  Usually refers to investments in hedge funds,
leveraged loans, subordinated and distressed debt, real estate and foreign currency overlay. Many hedge funds pursue strategies that are uncommon relative to mutual funds. Examples of alternative investment strategies are: long-short equity, event
driven, statistical arbitrage, fixed income arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, short bias, global macro and equity market neutral.   
   APAC  Asia-Pacific region.   
   Assets Under Custody And Administration ( AUC )  Assets beneficially owned by our clients or customers which we hold in various
capacities for which various services are provided, such as custody, accounting, administration valuations and performance measurement. These assets are not on our balance sheet.       ASC  Accounting Standards Codification.       Assets Under Management
( AUM )  Includes assets beneficially owned by our clients or customers which we hold in various capacities that are either actively or passively managed, as well as the value of hedges supporting customer liabilities. These assets
and liabilities are not on our balance sheet.       bp  basis point.       Collateral management  A comprehensive program designed to simplify collateralization and expedite securities transfers for buyers and sellers. BNY Mellon acts as an independent collateral
manager positioned between the buyer and seller to ensure proper collateralization throughout the term of the transaction. Services include verification of securities eligibility and maintenance of margin requirements.   
   Collateralized Debt Obligations ( CDOs )  A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product

constructed from a portfolio of fixed-income assets. CDOs are divided into different tranches and losses are applied in reverse order of seniority.   
   Collateralized loan obligation ( CLO )  A debt security backed by a pool of commercial loans.   
   Collective trust fund  An investment fund formed from the pooling of investments by investors.   
   Credit derivatives  Contractual agreements that provide insurance against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. The nature of the
credit event is established by the buyer and seller at the inception of the transaction. Such events include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return
for a contingent payment by the seller (insurer) following a credit event.       Credit risk  The risk of loss due to borrower or
counterparty default.       Currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency.
      Depositary Receipts ( DR )  A negotiable security that generally represents a non-U.S. company s publicly traded
equity. Although typically denominated in U.S. dollars, DRs can also be denominated in Euros. DRs are eligible to trade on all U.S. stock exchanges and many European stock exchanges. American Depositary Receipts ( ADR ) trade only in the
U.S.       Derivative  A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of
securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices.       Discontinued
operations  The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by ASC 205, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management s intention to sell the component.
      Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act )  Regulatory reform legislation signed
into law on July 21, 2010. This new law broadly affects the financial services industry by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a

82     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    (continued)                 

resolution authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and containing numerous other provisions aimed at
strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector.       Double leverage  The situation that exists when a holding
company s equity investments in wholly owned subsidiaries (including goodwill and intangibles) exceed its equity capital. Double leverage is created when a bank holding company issues debt and downstreams the proceeds to a subsidiary as an
equity investment.       Economic Value of Equity ( EVE )  An aggregation of discounted future cash flows of assets and
liabilities over a long-term horizon.       EMEA  Europe, the Middle East and Africa.   
   Exchange traded fund  Each share of an exchange traded fund tracks a basket of stocks in some index or benchmark, providing investors with a
vehicle that closely parallels the performance of these benchmarks while allowing for intraday trading.       eXtensible Business Reporting
Language ( XBRL )  a language for the electronic communication of business and financial data.       FASB  Financial
Accounting Standards Board.       FDIC  Federal Deposit Issuance Corporation.       Foreign currency options  Similar to interest rate options except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also, see interest rate options in this glossary.   
   Foreign currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future dates.
      Foreign exchange contracts  Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously
agreed-upon terms.       Forward rate agreements  Contracts to exchange payments on a specified future date, based on a market change in
interest rates from trade date to contract settlement date.       Fully Taxable Equivalent ( FTE )  Basis for comparison of
yields on assets having ordinary

taxability with assets for which special tax exemptions apply. The FTE adjustment reflects an increase in the interest yield or return on a tax-exempt asset to a level that would be comparable
had the asset been fully taxable.       Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP )  Accounting rules and conventions
defining acceptable practices in preparing financial statements in the U.S. The FASB is the primary source of accounting rules.       Grantor
Trust  A legal, passive entity through which pass-through securities are sold to investors.       Hedge fund  A fund, usually
used by wealthy individuals and institutions, which is allowed to use diverse strategies that are unavailable to mutual funds, including selling short, leverage, program trading, swaps, arbitrage and derivatives. Hedge funds are exempt from many of
the rules and regulations governing mutual funds, which allow them to accomplish aggressive investing goals. Legal requirements in many countries allow only certain sophisticated investors to participate in hedge funds.   
   Impairment  When an asset s market value is less than its carrying value.       Interest rate options, including caps and floors  Contracts to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a premium when the contract is initiated. As a writer of interest rate
options, we receive a premium in exchange for bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely, as a purchaser of an option, we pay a premium for the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a financial instrument or
currency at predetermined terms in the future.       Interest rate sensitivity  The exposure of net interest income to interest rate
movements.       Interest rate swaps  Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency is exchanged over a
prescribed period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities. An example of a situation in which we would utilize an interest rate swap would be to convert our
fixed-rate debt to a variable rate. By entering into a swap, the principal amount of a debt remains unchanged, but the interest stream changes.

BNY
Mellon     83   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    (continued)                 
 
    Investment grade loans and commitments  Those where the customer has a Moody s long-term
rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard   Poor s long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings.       Joint venture  A company or entity owned and operated by a group of companies for a specific business purpose, no one of which has a majority interest.   
   Lease-In-Lease-Out ( LILO ) transaction  A transaction in which a person or entity leases property from the owner for a specified
time period and then leases the property back to that owner for a shorter time period. The obligations of the property owner as sublessee are usually secured by deposits, letters of credit, or marketable securities.   
   Leverage ratio  Tier 1 capital divided by leverage assets. Leverage assets are defined as quarterly average total assets, net of goodwill,
intangibles and certain other items as required by the Federal Reserve.       Liquidity risk  The risk of being unable to fund our
portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price.       Loans for purchasing or carrying securities  Loans primarily to brokers and dealers in securities.       Margin loans  A loan that is used to purchase shares of stock. The shares purchased are used as collateral for the loan.       Market risk  The potential loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by movements in market variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity
and commodity prices.       Master netting agreement  An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each
other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract.       Mortgage-Backed Security ( MBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by the principal and interest payments of a set of mortgage loans.   
   N/A  Not applicable.

N/M  Not meaningful.       Net interest margin  The result of dividing net interest revenue by average interest-earning assets.       Non-investment grade loans and commitments   Those where the customer has a Moody s long-term rating below Baa3; and/or a Standard   Poor s long-term rating below BBB-; or if
unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings.       Operating leverage  The rate of increase in revenue to the rate of
increase in expenses.       Operational risk  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors
or external events.       Performance fees  Fees received by an investment advisor based upon the fund s performance for the period
relative to various predetermined benchmarks.       Prime securities  A classification of securities collateralized by loans to
borrowers who have a high-value and/or a good credit history.       Private equity/venture capital  Investment in start-up companies or
those in the early processes of developing products and services with perceived, long-term growth potential.       Pre-tax operating
margin  Income before taxes for a period divided by total revenue for that period.       Projected Benefit Obligation
( PBO )  The actuarial present value of all benefits accrued on employee service rendered prior to the calculation date, including allowance for future salary increases if the pension benefit is based on future compensation levels.
      Rating Agency  An independent agency that assesses the credit quality and likelihood of default of an issue or issuer and assigns
a rating to that issue or issuer.       Real Estate Investment Trust ( REIT )   An investor-owned corporation, trust or
association that sells shares to investors and invests in income-producing property.       Residential Mortgage-Backed Security
( RMBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by principal and interest payments of a set of residential mortgage loans.

84     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Glossary    (continued)                 
 
    Restructuring charges  Typically result from the consolidation and/or relocation of operations.
Restructuring charges may be incurred in connection with a business combination, a change in an enterprise s strategic plan or a managerial response to declines in demand.       Return on assets  Income divided by average assets.       Return on common
equity  Income divided by average common shareholders  equity.       Return on tangible common equity  Income, excluding
amortization of intangible assets, divided by average tangible common shareholders  equity.       Sale-In-Lease-Out ( SILO )
transaction  A transaction in which an entity sells its property to a corporation. The corporation simultaneously leases the property back to the entity for a shorter period of time. The SILO arrangement typically involves a service contract
which guarantees a fixed return to the corporation.       Securities lending transaction  A fully collateralized transaction in which
the owner of a security agrees to lend the security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally
matures in less than 90 days.       Subcustodian  A local provider (e.g., a bank) contracted to provide specific custodial related
services in a selected country or geographic area. Services generally include holding foreign securities in safekeeping, facilitating settlements and reporting holdings to the custodian.       Subprime securities  A classification of securities collateralized by loans to borrowers who have a tarnished or limited credit history. Subprime securities carry increased credit risk and
subsequently carry higher interest rates.   
 
    Tangible common shareholders  equity to tangible assets ratio ( TCE )  Common
shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with tax deductible goodwill and non-tax deductible intangible assets divided by period end total assets less goodwill, intangible assets,
deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and U.S. government-backed commercial paper.       Tangible common shareholders 
equity  Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill.       Tier 1 and total capital  Includes common shareholders  equity (excluding certain components of comprehensive income), Series B preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities, less
goodwill and certain intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill and a deduction for certain non-financial equity investments and disallowed deferred tax
assets. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital, qualifying unrealized equity securities gains, qualifying subordinated debt and the allowance for credit losses.       Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets ratio  Tier 1 capital excluding trust preferred securities and preferred stock divided by risk-weighted assets.   
   Unfunded commitments  Legally binding agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date.   
   Value-at-Risk ( VAR )  A measure of the dollar amount of potential loss at a specified confidence level from adverse market
movements in an ordinary market environment.       Variable Interest Entity ( VIE )  An entity that: (1) lacks enough
equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the entity s operations;
and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity s losses or return.

BNY
Mellon     85   

Table of Contents  

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

Management of BNY Mellon is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for BNY Mellon, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.      BNY Mellon s management,
including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has assessed the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, management used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based upon

such assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2010, BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.   
  KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited BNY Mellon s 2010 financial statements included in this Annual Report under
 Financial Statements and Notes,  has issued a report with respect to the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 87.

86     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
         
   The Board of Directors and Shareholders      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation s ( BNY Mellon ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). BNY Mellon s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, BNY Mellon
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of BNY Mellon as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2010, and our report dated February 28, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.       
  /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York   
  February 28, 2011   
         BNY
Mellon     87   

Table of Contents  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Income Statement    

88     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Income Statement    (continued)             

(a)   
   Basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method were calculated after deducting earnings allocated to participating securities of $23 million in
2010, $- million in 2009 and $10 million in 2008.      

(b)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      

(c)   
   Diluted earnings per share for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, was calculated using average basic shares. Adding back the dilutive shares would be anti-dilutive.

(d)   
   Represents stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, participating securities and warrants outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted
average common shares because their effect would be anti-dilutive.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.    
         BNY
Mellon     89   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
               Consolidated Balance Sheet        
 
   See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      
  90     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
               Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows        
 
   See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         BNY
Mellon     91   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
               Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity        

(b)   
   Includes $(15) million (after tax) related to OTTI, and a $14 million reclassification to retained earnings from other comprehensive income.

(c)   
   Comprehensive income attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders totaled $2,960 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.
         See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      
  92     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

          The Bank of
New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)              
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
   (continued)             

(b)   
   Includes $3,348 million (after tax) related to OTTI that was reclassified to net securities gains (losses) on the income statement.

(c)   
   Comprehensive income attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders totaled $3,158 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009.
     
         BNY
Mellon     93   

Table of Contents  

    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
   (continued)             

(b)   
   Comprehensive loss attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders totaled $3,433 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008.

94     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

Note 1 Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies    
   Basis of Presentation       The accounting
and financial reporting policies of BNY Mellon, a global financial services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) and prevailing industry practices. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates based on assumptions about future economic and market conditions which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in our financial statements. Amounts subject to estimates are items such as
the allowance for loan losses and lending-related commitments, goodwill and intangible assets, pension accounting, the fair value of financial instruments and other-than-temporary impairments. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
     In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows
for the annual periods have been made. Certain other immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior years to place them on a basis comparable with current period presentation.      The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. Equity investments of less than a majority but at least 20% ownership are accounted for by the equity method
and classified as other assets. Earnings on these investments are reflected in fee and other revenue as securities servicing fees or investment income, as appropriate, in the period earned. Our most significant equity method investments are:
      
    The income statement and balance sheet include results of acquired businesses accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting pursuant to ASC 805  Business Combinations  and equity
investments from the dates of acquisition. For acquisitions prior to Jan. 1, 2009, we recorded any contingent purchase payments when the amounts were resolved and

became payable. For acquisitions occurring after Dec. 31, 2008, contingent purchase consideration was measured at its fair value and recorded on the purchase date.   
  The Parent financial statements in Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Parent; those of a wholly owned
financing subsidiary that functions as a financing entity for BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries by issuing commercial paper and other debt guaranteed by BNY Mellon; and MIPA, LLC, a single member company, created to hold and administer corporate owned
life insurance. Financial data for the Parent, the financing subsidiary and the single member company are combined for financial reporting purposes because of the limited function of these entities and the unconditional guarantee by BNY Mellon of
their obligations.       Variable interest entities       We consider the underlying facts and circumstances of individual transactions when assessing whether or not an entity is a potential variable interest entity ( VIE ). VIEs are entities in which
equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. BNY Mellon applies ASC 810 to its mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, collective investment funds and real estate investment trusts, which were
determined to be VIEs. Generally, the company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and thus required to consolidate a VIE, if BNY Mellon has a variable interest (or combination of variable interests) that, based on a quantitative analysis, will
absorb a majority of the VIE s expected losses, that will receive a majority of the VIE s expected residual returns, or both. A  variable interest  is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the
fair value of the VIE s net assets.  Expected losses  and  expected residual returns  are measures of variability in the expected cash flows of a VIE.      BNY Mellon s other VIEs are evaluated under the guidance included in ASU 2009-17. These other VIEs, include securitization trusts, which are no longer considered QSPEs, and CLOs, in which BNY Mellon
serves as the investment manager. In addition, we provide trust and custody services for a fee to entities sponsored by other corporations in which we have no other interest. The company must determine whether or not its variable interests in these
VIEs based on qualitative analysis provide BNY Mellon with a controlling financial interest in the VIE. The

BNY
Mellon     95   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

analysis includes an assessment of the characteristics of the VIE. The Company is considered to have a controlling financial interest in the VIE, which would require consolidation of the VIE, if
it has the following characteristics: (1) the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance; and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that
could potentially be significant to the VIE.       Nature of operations       BNY Mellon is a global leader in providing a broad range of financial products and services in domestic and international markets. Through our seven businesses (Asset Management, Wealth Management, Asset
Servicing, Issuer Services, Clearing Services, Treasury Services and Other), we serve the following major classes of customers institutions, corporations, and high net worth individuals. For institutions and corporations, we provide the
following services:       

investment management;      

trust and custody;      

foreign exchange;      

securities lending;      

depositary receipts;      

corporate trust;      

shareowner services;      

global payment/cash management; and      

banking services.         For
individuals, we provide mutual funds, separate accounts, wealth management and private banking services. BNY Mellon s asset management businesses provide investment products in many asset classes and investment styles on a global basis.
      Trading account securities, available-for-sale securities, and held-to-maturity securities    
  Securities are accounted for under ASC 320  Investments Debt and Equity Securities.  Securities are generally classified in the trading,
available-for-sale investment or the held-to-maturity investment securities portfolios when they are purchased. Securities are classified as trading securities when our intention is to resell. Securities are classified as available-for-sale
securities when we intend to hold the securities for an indefinite period of time or when the securities may be used for tactical asset/liability purposes and may be sold from time to time to effectively manage interest rate exposure, prepayment
risk and liquidity needs. Securities are

classified as held-to-maturity securities when we intend to hold them until maturity. Seed capital investments are classified as other assets, trading securities or available-for-sale securities,
depending on the nature of the investment and management s intent.      Trading securities are stated at fair value. Trading revenue includes
both realized and unrealized gains and losses. The liability incurred on short-sale transactions, representing the obligation to deliver securities, is included in trading liabilities at fair value.   
  Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value. The difference between fair value and amortized cost representing unrealized gains or losses on
assets classified as available-for-sale, are recorded net of tax as an addition to or deduction from other comprehensive income ( OCI ), unless a security is deemed to have an other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ). Gains and
losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are reported in the income statement. The cost of debt and equity securities sold is determined on a specific identification and average cost method, respectively. Unrealized gains and losses on seed
capital investments classified as other assets are recorded in investment income. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at cost.      Income on
securities purchased is adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount on a level yield basis, unless a security is other-than-temporarily impaired.      Effective 2009, the Company adopted FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2  Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments  (included in ASC 320), which changed the accounting and disclosure
for OTTI. Under this new guidance, only the credit component of an OTTI of a debt security is recognized in earnings and the noncredit component is recognized in OCI when we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that BNY
Mellon will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery.      For held-to-maturity debt securities, the amount of OTTI recorded in OCI
for the non-credit portion of a previous OTTI is amortized prospectively, as an increase to the carrying amount of the security, over the remaining life of the security on the basis of the timing of future estimated cash flows of the securities. In
order not to be required to recognize the non-credit component of an OTTI in earnings, management is

96     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

required to assert that it does not have the intent to sell the security and that it is more likely than not it will not have to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis.   
  If we intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that BNY Mellon will be required to sell the security prior to recovery, the non-credit
component of OTTI is recognized in earnings and subsequently accreted to interest income on an effective yield basis over the life of the security.      ASC 325  Investments Other  provides additional specific guidance for unrated investments which are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets. BNY Mellon decides whether a security is
within the scope of ASC 325 upon its acquisition and does not alter this decision if the security is subsequently downgraded. Under ASC 325, the excess of future estimated cash flows over the initial carrying amount of the investment is accreted to
interest income over the life of the investment using the effective yield method.      We routinely conduct periodic reviews to identify and
evaluate each investment security to determine whether OTTI has occurred. We examine various factors when determining whether an impairment, representing the fair value of a security being below its amortized cost, is other than temporary. The
following are examples of factors that BNY Mellon considers:       

The length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis;      

Whether management has an intent to sell the security;      

Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment;      

Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area;

Whether a debt security has been downgraded by a rating agency;      

Whether a debt security exhibits cash flow deterioration; and      

For each non-agency RMBS, we compare the remaining credit enhancement that protects the individual security from losses against the projected losses of
principal and/or interest expected to come from the underlying mortgage collateral, to determine whether such credit losses might directly impact the relevant security.

The accounting policies for the determination of the fair value of financial instruments and OTTI have been
identified as  critical accounting estimates  as they require us to make numerous assumptions based on available market data. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for these disclosures.   
   Loans and leases       Loans are reported
net of any unearned discount. Loan origination and upfront commitment fees, as well as certain direct loan origination and commitment costs, are deferred and amortized as a yield adjustment over the lives of the related loans. Deferred fees and
costs are netted against outstanding loan balances. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value.      Unearned
revenue on direct financing leases is accreted over the lives of the leases in decreasing amounts to provide a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. Revenue on leveraged leases is recognized on a basis to achieve a constant
yield on the outstanding investment in the lease, net of the related deferred tax liability, in the years in which the net investment is positive. Gains and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are included in investment income.
Considering the nature of these leases and the number of significant assumptions, there is risk associated with the income recognition on these leases should any of the assumptions change materially in future periods.   
   Nonperforming assets       Commercial loans
are placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, or when there is reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected.      When a first lien residential mortgage loan reaches 90 days delinquent, it is subject to an impairment test and may be placed on nonaccrual status. At 180 days delinquent, the loan is subject to further
impairment testing. The loan will remain on accrual status if the realizable value of the collateral exceeds the unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest. If the loan is impaired, a charge-off is taken and the loan is placed on nonaccrual
status. At 270 days delinquent, all first lien mortgages are placed on nonaccrual status. Second lien mortgages are automatically placed on nonaccrual status when they reach 90 days delinquent. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously
accrued and uncollected interest is reversed   

BNY
Mellon     97   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

against current period interest revenue. Interest receipts on nonaccrual and impaired loans are recognized as interest revenue or are applied to principal when we believe the ultimate
collectability of principal is in doubt. Nonaccrual loans generally are restored to an accrual basis when principal and interest become current.      A loan is considered to be impaired, as defined by ASC 310  Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan , when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all principal and interest
amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. An impairment allowance is measured on loans greater than $1 million and which meet the definition of an impaired loan per ASC 310.   
  Impaired loans greater than $1 million are required to be measured based upon the loan s market price, the present value of expected future
cash flows, discounted at the loan s initial effective interest rate, or at fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded value of the loan, an impairment allowance is
established by either an allocation of the allowance for credit losses or by a provision for credit losses. Impairment allowances are not needed when the recorded investment in an impaired loan is less than the loan valuation.   
   Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending related commitments       The allowance for loans losses, shown as a valuation allowance to loans, and the allowance for lending related commitments are referred to as BNY Mellon s allowance for credit exposure. The
accounting policy for the determination of the adequacy of the allowances has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which
are inherently uncertain.      The allowance for loans losses is maintained to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance
sheet date based on our judgment. The allowance determination methodology is designed to provide procedural discipline in assessing the appropriateness of the allowance. Credit losses are charged against the allowance. Recoveries are added to the
allowance.      The methodology for determining the allowance for lending related commitments considers the same factors as the allowance for loan
losses, as well as an   

estimate of the probability of drawdown. In 2010, we expanded the description of the elements of the allowance for loan losses and lending related commitments from three to four. This change did
not impact the methodology used to calculate the allowance or provision for credit losses.      The four elements of the allowance for loan losses
and the allowance for lending related commitments are:       

an allowance for impaired credits (nonaccrual loans over $1 million);      

an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits;      

an allowance for residential mortgage loans (previously included in element 2); and      

an unallocated allowance based on general economic conditions and risk factors in our individual markets.      
  Our lending is primarily to institutional customers. As a result, our loans are generally larger than $1 million. Therefore, the first element,
impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all nonperforming loans over $1 million. The allowance is measured by the difference between the recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value. Impaired value is either the
present value of the expected future cash flows from the borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.      The
second element, higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits, is based on our expected loss model. All borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings. The expected loss for each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s
credit rating, loss given default rating and maturity. The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation. The borrower s probability of default is derived from the associated credit rating. Borrower ratings are reviewed at least
annually and are periodically mapped to third party databases, including rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity. Higher risk-rated credits are reviewed quarterly. Commercial loans over
$1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a credit rating. We also apply this technique to our lease financing and wealth management portfolios.      The third element, the allowance for residential mortgage loans is determined by segregating six mortgage pools into delinquency periods ranging from current through foreclosure. Each of these delinquency
periods is assigned a probability of default. A specific loss given default based on a

98     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

combination of external loss data from third party databases and internal loss history is assigned for each mortgage pool. For each pool, the expected loss is calculated using the above factors.
The resulting expected loss factor is applied against the loan balance to determine the reserve held for each pool.      The fourth element, the
unallocated allowance, is based on management s judgment regarding the following factors:       

Economic conditions including duration of the current cycle;      

Collateral values;      

Specific credits and industry conditions;      

Results of bank regulatory and internal credit exams;      

Geopolitical issues and their impact on the economy; and      

Volatility and model risk.      
  The allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses
regardless of the nature of the loss.       Premises and equipment       Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the
owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement. For owned and capitalized assets, estimated useful lives range from 2 to 40 years.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and amortized to operating expense over their identified useful lives.       Software       BNY Mellon capitalizes costs relating to acquired software and internal-use
software development projects that provide new or significantly improved functionality. We capitalize projects that are expected to result in longer-term operational benefits, such as replacement systems or new applications that result in
significantly increased operational efficiencies or functionality. All other costs incurred in connection with an internal-use software project are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software is recorded in other assets.

Identified intangible assets and goodwill       Identified intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized in a pattern consistent with the assets  identifiable cash flows or using a straight-line method over their remaining estimated benefit
periods if the pattern of cash flows is not estimable. Intangible assets with estimable lives are reviewed for possible impairment when events or changed circumstances may affect the underlying basis of the asset. Goodwill and intangibles with
indefinite lives are not amortized, but are assessed at least annually for impairment. The accounting policy for valuing and impairment testing of identified intangible assets and goodwill has been identified as a  critical accounting
estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to goodwill and intangible assets.   
   Noncontrolling Interests    
  Noncontrolling interests included in permanent equity are adjusted for the income or (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest holders and any
distributions to those shareholders. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported as temporary equity. In accordance with ASC 480,  Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity , BNY Mellon recognizes changes in the redemption value of the
redeemable noncontrolling interests as they occur and adjusts the carrying value to be equal to the redemption value.       Fee revenue
      We record security servicing fees, asset and wealth management fees, foreign exchange and other trading revenue, treasury services,
financing-related fees, distribution and servicing, and other revenue when the services are provided and earned based on contractual terms, when amounts are determined and collectibility is reasonably assured.   
  Additionally, we recognize revenue from non-refundable, up-front implementation fees under outsourcing contracts using a straight-line method, commencing
in the period the ongoing services are performed through the expected term of the contractual relationship. Incremental direct set-up costs of implementation, up to the related implementation fee or minimum fee revenue amount, are deferred and
amortized over the same period that the related implementation fees are recognized. If a client terminates an outsourcing contract prematurely, the unamortized deferred incremental direct set-up

BNY
Mellon     99   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

costs and the unamortized deferred up-front implementation fees related to that contract are recognized in the period the contract is terminated.   
  Performance fees are recognized in the period in which the performance fees are earned and become determinable. Performance fees are generally calculated
as a percentage of the applicable portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance. When a portfolio underperforms its benchmark or fails to generate positive performance, subsequent years 
performance must generally exceed this shortfall prior to fees being earned. Amounts billable in subsequent years and which are subject to a clawback if performance thresholds in those years are not met are not recognized since the fees are
potentially uncollectible. These fees are recognized when it is determined that they will be collected. When a multi-year performance contract provides that fees earned are billed ratably over the performance period, only the portion of the fees
earned that are non-refundable are recognized.       Net interest revenue       Revenue on interest-earning assets and expense on interest-bearing liabilities is recognized based on the effective yield of the related financial instrument.   
   Foreign currency translation       Assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Transaction gains and losses are included in the income statement. Translation gains and losses on investments in
foreign entities with functional currencies that are not the U.S. dollar are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive results. Revenue and expense accounts are translated monthly at an average monthly exchange
rate.       Pension       The
measurement date for BNY Mellon s pension plans is Dec. 31. Plan assets are determined based on fair value generally representing observable market prices. The projected benefit obligation is determined based on the present value of projected
benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on the yield of high-quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace. The net periodic pension expense or credit includes service costs, interest costs based
on an assumed discount rate, an expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of prior years  actuarial gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments, gains or losses related to changes in the
amount of the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from the assumed rate of return, changes in the discount rate or other assumptions. To the extent an actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the
greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, the excess is recognized over the future service periods of active employees.      Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the expected allocation for each asset class and are based
on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective
interest rates.      The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return on plan assets is based on the fair value of plan assets
adjusted for the difference between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The difference between actual experience and expected returns on plan assets is included as an adjustment in the market-related value over a five-year
period.      BNY Mellon s accounting policy regarding pensions has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it is
regarded to be critical to the presentation of our financial statements since it requires management to make numerous complex and subjective assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain. See Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to pensions.       Severance    
  BNY Mellon provides separation benefits for U.S.-based employees through The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan,
which replaced The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Separation Plan, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. Separation Plan and the Mellon Financial Corporation Displacement Program for separations on or after May 24, 2010. These benefits are
provided to eligible employees separated from their jobs for business reasons not related to individual performance. Basic separation benefits are

100     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

generally based on the employee s years of continuous benefited service. Severance for employees based outside of the U.S. is determined in accordance with local agreements and legal
requirements. Separation expense is recorded when management commits to an action that will result in separation and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.       Income taxes       We record current tax liabilities or assets through charges or credits to
the current tax provision for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. A tax position that fails to meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will
result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as income tax expense.   
   Derivative financial instruments    
  Derivative contracts, such as futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading
activities are recorded at fair value. Gains and losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in fee and other revenue. Unrealized gains and losses are reported on a gross basis in trading account assets and trading liabilities,
after taking into consideration master netting agreements.      We enter into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes
primarily as part of our asset/liability management ( ALM ) process. These derivatives are designated as fair value and cash flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities when we enter into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses
associated with fair value hedges are recorded in income as well as any change in the value of the related hedged item. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses
related to a hedged net investment in a foreign operation, net

of their tax effect, are recorded with cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments within other comprehensive income.      We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as our risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.   
  We formally assess, both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
effective and whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. We evaluate ineffectiveness in terms of amounts that could impact a hedge s ability to qualify for hedge accounting and the risk that the hedge
could result in more than a de minimis amount of ineffectiveness. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of our hedges is assessed to determine if we can expect the hedge to be highly effective over the life of the
transaction and to determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis.      Recognizing that changes in the value of
derivatives used for hedging or the value of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, we have processes in place that are designed to identify and evaluate such changes when they occur. Quarterly, we perform a quantitative
effectiveness assessment and record any ineffectiveness in current earnings.      We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when we determine
that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative expires, is sold, or management discontinues the derivative s hedge designation. Subsequent gains and losses on these derivatives are included in foreign exchange and other
trading revenue. For fair value hedges, the accumulated gain or loss on the hedged item is amortized on a yield basis over the remaining life of the hedged item. Accumulated gains and losses, net of tax effect, from cash flow hedges are reclassified
from other comprehensive income and recognized in current earnings in other revenue upon receipt of the hedged cash flow.      The accounting
policy for the determination of the fair value of derivative financial instruments has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous assumptions based on the available market data. See Note 26 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to derivative financial instruments disclosures.

BNY
Mellon     101   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Statement of cash flows       We have defined cash as cash and due from banks. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in the same category as the items hedged.       Stock options       Compensation expense is recognized in the income statement, on a
straight-line basis, over the applicable vesting period, for all share-based payments.      Certain of our stock compensation grants vest when the
employee retires. ASC 718 requires the completion of expensing of new grants with this feature by the first date the employee is eligible to retire. For grants prior to Jan. 1, 2006, we will continue to expense them over their stated vesting period.

Note 2 Accounting changes and new accounting guidance    
   ASU 2009-16 Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets       In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-16  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets.  This formally codified SFAS No. 166,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, an
Amendment to FASB Statement No. 140.  This ASU removed (1) the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity ( QSPE ) from SFAS No. 140 (ASC 860  Transfers   and Servicing ) and (2) the exceptions
from applying FASB Interpretation No. ( FIN ) 46 (R) (ASC 810  Consolidation ) to QSPEs. This ASU revised the de-recognition requirements for transfers of financial assets and the initial measurement of beneficial interests
that are received as proceeds by a transferor in connection with transfers of financial assets. This ASU also required additional disclosure about transfers of financial assets and a transferor s continuing involvement with such transferred
financial assets. This ASU was effective Jan. 1, 2010, at which time any QSPEs were evaluated for consolidation in accordance with ASC 810.   
   ASU 2009-17 Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities    
  In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-17  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Entities Involved with Variable Interest Entities.  This
ASU amended ASC 810 to require ongoing assessments to

determine whether an entity is a variable interest entity ( VIE ) and whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. This ASU also amended the guidance for determining which
enterprise, if any, is the primary beneficiary of a VIE by requiring the enterprise to initially perform a qualitative analysis to determine if the enterprise s variable interest or interests give it a controlling financial interest.
Consolidation is based on a company s ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance. If a company has control and the right to receive benefits or the obligation to absorb
losses which could potentially be significant to the VIE, then consolidation is required. This ASU was effective Jan. 1, 2010, and primarily impacted our asset management businesses.      This ASU does not change the economic risk related to these businesses and therefore, BNY Mellon s computation of economic capital required by our businesses did not change.   
  This statement also required additional disclosures about an enterprise s involvement in a VIE, including the requirement for sponsors of a VIE to
disclose information even if they do not hold a significant variable interest in the VIE. At Dec. 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet included $15,249 million of assets of VIEs that would not have been included in our consolidated balance
sheet prior to effectiveness of the statement. Those assets included seed capital investments in mutual funds sponsored by our affiliates and securitizations. Adoption of this new statement accounted for an increase in consolidated total assets on
our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2010 of $14.6 billion, or approximately 7% from year end.      In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-10,
 Amendments for Certain Investment Funds  which deferred the requirements of ASU 2009-17 for asset managers  interests in entities that apply the specialized accounting guidance for investment companies or that have the attributes of
investment companies and asset managers  interests in money market funds. This amendment was effective Jan. 1, 2010.      As a result of
adopting the accounting for VIEs, we recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $76 million to retained earnings and OCI in the first quarter of 2010. Also, we marked the assets and liabilities to market, and as a result, recorded a
$73 million charge to retained earnings in the first quarter of 2010.   

102     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

In January 2010, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision issued a final rule requiring banks to hold capital for assets consolidated under ASC 810. The final rule allows for a phase-in of 50% of the effect on risk-weighted
assets and allowance for loan losses includable in Tier 2 capital that results from implementation of this standard for the quarters ending Sept. 30, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2010, with full phase-in for the quarter ending March 31, 2011. BNY Mellon
elected to defer the full implementation of ASC 810 for capital purposes pursuant to this rule. At Dec. 31, 2010, had we fully phased-in the implementation of ASC 810, our Tier 1 capital ratio would have been negatively impacted by approximately 2
basis points.       ASU 2010-6 Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements    
  In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-6,  Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements.  This amended ASC 820 to clarify existing
requirements regarding disclosures of inputs and valuation techniques and levels of disaggregation. This ASU also required the following new disclosures: (1) significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 and the reasons that such transfers
were made; and (2) additional disclosures in the reconciliation of Level 3 activity, including information on a gross basis for purchases, sales, issuances and settlements. This ASU is required in interim and annual financial statements and was
effective March 31, 2010. See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for these disclosures. Additional disclosures about Level 3 purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the rollforward activity for fair value
measurements will be effective March 31, 2011.       ASU 2010-11 Scope Exception Related to Embedded Credit Derivatives
      In March 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU 2010-11,  Scope Exception Related to Embedded
Credit Derivatives.  This ASU amended Subtopic 815-15 to clarify the scope of the exception for embedded credit derivative features related to the transfer of credit risk in the form of subordination of one financial instrument to another. It
addressed how to determine which embedded credit derivative features, including those in collateralized debt obligations and synthetic collateralized debt obligations, are considered to be

embedded derivatives that should not be analyzed for potential bifurcation and separate accounting. This ASU was effective July 1, 2010. The impact of this ASU was immaterial to our results
of operations.       ASU 2010-18 Effect of a Loan Modification When the Loan is Part of a Pool that is Accounted for as a Single Asset
      In April 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-18,  Effect of a Loan Modification when the Loan is Part of a Pool that is Accounted for as
a Single Asset.  This ASU provided guidance that would maintain the integrity of the pool as a single unit of account and exempt these loans from troubled debt restructuring reporting. Modified purchased credit impaired loans accounted for in a
pool would remain in the pool subject to ASC 310-30 regardless of whether the modification is a troubled debt restructuring. An entity continues to be required to consider whether the pool of assets in which the loan is included is impaired if
expected cash flows for the pool change. This ASU does not contain any additional disclosure requirements. This ASU was effective July 1, 2010. The impact of this ASU was immaterial to our results of operations.   
   ASU 2010-20 Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses    
  In July 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-20,  Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses. 
This ASU required additional disclosures about the allowance for credit losses and the credit quality of financing receivables. This ASU defined two levels of disaggregation portfolio segment and class of financing receivable. Existing
disclosures were amended to require: rollforward schedule of allowance for credit losses, with the ending balance further disaggregated on the basis of impairment method; related recorded investment in each ending balance noted above; nonaccrual
status by class of financing receivable; and impaired financing receivables by class of financing receivables. This ASU required the following additional disclosures: credit quality indicators by class of financing receivable; aging of past due
financing receivables by class; nature and extent of troubled debt restructuring by class of financing receivable and their effect on allowance for credit losses; nature and extent of financing receivables modified as troubled debt restructurings by
class and their effect on the allowance for credit losses; and significant purchases

BNY
Mellon     103   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

and sales by portfolio segment. These disclosures are presented in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Adopted in 2009        Other-than-temporary impairment    
  In April 2009, the FASB issued new guidance on recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments, included in ASC
320  Investments Debt and Equity Securities . This new guidance replaced the  intent and ability  indication in previous guidance by specifying that (a) if a company does not have the intent to sell a debt security
prior to recovery and (b) it is more likely than not that it will not have to sell the debt security prior to recovery, the security would not be considered other-than-temporarily impaired unless there is a credit loss. When an entity does not
intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that the entity will not have to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis, it will recognize the credit component of an other-than-temporary impairment of a debt security in
earnings and the remaining portion in other comprehensive income. For held-to-maturity debt securities, the amount of OTTI recorded in OCI for the non-credit portion of a previous OTTI should be amortized prospectively over the remaining life of the
security on the basis of the timing of future estimated cash flows of the security.      ASC 320 requires entities to initially apply the
provisions of the standard to previously other-than-temporarily impaired debt securities (i.e. debt securities that the entity does not intend to sell and that the entity is not more likely than not required to sell before recovery) existing as of
the date of initial adoption by making a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. The cumulative-effect adjustment reclassifies the noncredit portion of a previously other-than-temporarily
impaired debt security held as of the date of initial adoption to accumulated OCI from retained earnings.      This guidance also amends the
previous disclosure provisions of ASC 320 for both debt and equity securities. It requires disclosures in interim and annual periods for major security types identified on the basis of how an entity manages, monitors and measures its securities and
the nature and risks of the security. We adopted this new guidance effective Jan 1, 2009. As a result of adopting this guidance, BNY Mellon recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of $676 million (after-tax)

to reclassify the non-credit component of the previously recognized OTTI from retained earnings to accumulated OCI (for those securities where management did not intend to sell the security and
it was not more likely than not that BNY Mellon would have been required to sell the securities before recovery).   

      Note 3 Acquisitions and dispositions       We sometimes structure our acquisitions with both an initial payment and later contingent payments tied to post-closing revenue or income growth. For acquisitions completed prior to Jan. 1, 2009, we
record the fair value of contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable. For acquisitions completed after Jan. 1, 2009, subsequent changes in the fair value of a contingent
consideration liability will be recorded through the income statement. Contingent payments totaled $92 million in 2010.      At Dec. 31,
2010, we were potentially obligated to pay additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures based on contractual agreements, could range from approximately $12 million
to $42 million over the next three years.      None of the potential contingent additional consideration was recorded as goodwill at Dec. 31,
2010.       Acquisitions in 2010    
  On July 1, 2010, we acquired GIS for cash of $2.3 billion. GIS provides a comprehensive suite of products which includes subaccounting, fund
accounting/administration, custody, managed account services and alternative investment services. Assets acquired totaled approximately $590 million. Liabilities assumed totaled approximately $250 million. Goodwill related to this
acquisition is included in our asset servicing and clearing services businesses and totaled $1,505 million, of which $1,256 million is tax deductible and $249 million is non-tax deductible. Customer contract intangible assets related
to this acquisition are included in our asset servicing and clearing services businesses, with lives ranging from 10 years to 20 years by business, and totaled $477 million.      On Aug. 2, 2010, we acquired BAS for cash of EUR281 million (US$370 million). This transaction included the purchase of Frankfurter Service Kapitalanlage Gesellschaft mbH
( FSKAG ), a   

104     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

wholly owned fund administration affiliate. The combined business offers a full range of tailored solutions for investment companies, financial institutions and institutional investors in
Germany. Assets acquired totaled approximately EUR 2.7 billion (US $3.6 billion) and primarily consisted of securities of approximately EUR1.9 billion (US $2.6 billion). Liabilities assumed totaled approximately
EUR2.6 billion (US $3.4 billion) and primarily consisted of deposits of approximately EUR 1.7 billion (US $2.3 billion). Goodwill related to this acquisition of $272 million is tax deductible and is included in our asset
servicing business. Customer contract intangible assets related to this acquisition are included in our asset servicing business, with a life of 10 years, and totaled $40 million.      On Sept. 1, 2010, we completed the acquisition of I3 Advisors of Toronto, an independent wealth advisory company with more than C$3.8 billion in assets under advisement at acquisition, for cash of
C$22.2 million (US $21.1 million). Goodwill related to this acquisition is included in our wealth management business and totaled $8 million and is non-tax deductible. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this
acquisition are included in our wealth management business, with a life of 33 years, and totaled $10 million.      In the second quarter of
2010, we acquired a Canadian trust company for C$29 million.       Divestitures in 2010    
  On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold MUNB, our national bank subsidiary located in Florida. The results for MUNB were classified as discontinued operations.
See Note 4 for additional information on the MUNB transaction.       Acquisitions in 2009    
  In November 2009, we acquired Insight Investment Management Limited ( Insight ) for  235 million ($377 million of cash and
stock). Based in London, Insight specializes in liability-driven investment solutions, active fixed income and alternative investments. Insight had $138 billion in assets under management at acquisition. Goodwill related to this acquisition is
non-tax deductible and totaled $202 million. Intangible assets (primarily customer contracts) related to the transaction, with a life up to 11 years, totaled $111 million.

In November 2009, BNY Mellon acquired a 20% minority interest in Siguler Guff   Company, LLC (and
certain related entities), a multi-strategy private equity firm with approximately $8 billion in assets under management and committed capital.       Acquisitions in 2008       In January 2008, we acquired ARX Capital Management
( ARX ). ARX is a leading independent asset management business, headquartered in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.      On Dec. 31, 2008, we
acquired the Australian (Ankura Capital) and UK (Blackfriars Asset Management) businesses from our Asset Management joint venture with WestLB.   
   Dispositions in 2008       In February 2008,
we sold our B-Trade and G-Trade execution businesses to BNY ConvergEx Group. These businesses were sold at book value.      In
June 2008, we sold Mellon 1   st    Business Bank
( M1BB ), based in Los Angeles, California. There was no gain or loss recorded on this transaction.   

      Note 4 Discontinued operations       On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold MUNB, our national bank subsidiary located in Florida. We have applied discontinued operations accounting to this business. The income statements for all periods in this
Annual Report are presented on a continuing operations basis. In 2010, we recorded an after-tax loss on discontinued operations of $66 million, primarily reflecting lower of cost or market write-downs on the retained MUNB loans held for sale.

BNY
Mellon     105   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is as follows:   

All information in these Financial Statements and Notes reflects continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.

Note 5 Securities       The following tables present the amortized cost, the gross unrealized gains and losses and the fair value of securities at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.   

(a)   
   Includes $11.0 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust is in the process of being dissolved.

106     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Includes $10.8 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   The Grantor Trust contains Alt-A, prime and subprime RMBS.

The amortized cost and fair value of securities at Dec. 31, 2010, by contractual maturity, are as follows:

Temporarily impaired securities       At
Dec. 31, 2010, substantially all of the unrealized losses on the investment securities portfolio were attributable to credit spreads widening since purchase, and interest rate movements. We do not intend to sell these securities and it is not more
likely than not that we will have to sell.      The following tables show the aggregate related fair value of investments with a continuous
unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for greater than 12 months.

BNY
Mellon     107   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Includes other-than-temporarily impaired securities in which portions of the other-than-temporary impairment loss remains in OCI.      

(a)   
   Includes other-than-temporarily impaired securities in which portions of the other-than-temporary impairment loss remains in OCI.      
      
  108     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Other-than-temporary impairment       For certain debt securities that have no debt rating at acquisition and are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets under ASC 325, OTTI occurs when we determine that there has been an adverse
change in cash flows and the present value of those remaining cash flows is less than the present value of the remaining cash flows estimated at the security s acquisition date (or last estimated cash flow revision date).   
  We routinely conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each investment security to determine whether OTTI has occurred. Economic models are used
to determine whether an OTTI has occurred on these securities. While all securities are considered, the securities primarily impacted by OTTI testing are non-agency RMBS. For each non-agency RMBS in the investment portfolio (including but not
limited to those whose fair value is less than their amortized cost basis), an extensive, regular review is conducted to determine if an OTTI has occurred. Various inputs to the economic models are used to determine if an unrealized loss on
non-agency RMBS is other-than-temporary. The most significant inputs are:       

Default rate the number of mortgage loans expected to go into default over the life of the transaction, which is driven by the roll rate of loans
in each performance bucket that will ultimately migrate to default; and      

Severity the loss expected to be realized when a loan defaults         To determine if the unrealized loss for non-agency RMBS is other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying assets (mortgages) and multiply that calculated amount by an estimate
of realizable value upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity) in order to determine the projected collateral loss. We also evaluate the current credit enhancement underlying the bond to determine the impact on cash flows. If we
determine that a given RMBS position will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a charge to earnings.      In
addition, we have estimated the expected loss by taking into account observed performance of the underlying securities, industry studies, market forecasts, as well as our view of the economic outlook affecting collateral.

The table below shows the projected weighted-average default rates and loss severities for the 2007, 2006
and late-2005 non-agency RMBS and Grantor Trust portfolios at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.       
       Projected weighted-average default rates and
severities        
 
  The following table provides pre-tax net securities gains (losses) by type.   

The following table reflects investment securities credit losses recorded in earnings. The beginning balance represents the credit loss component for
which OTTI occurred on debt securities in prior periods. The additions represent the first time a debt security was credit impaired or when subsequent credit impairments have occurred. The deductions represent credit losses on securities that have
been sold, are required to be sold or it is our intention to sell.       
 
  At Dec. 31, 2010, assets amounting to $60.6 billion were pledged primarily for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The
significant components of pledged assets were as follows: $55.3 billion of securities, $1.6 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks and $3.7 billion of loans. Also included in these pledged assets was securities

BNY
Mellon     109   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

available-for-sale of $42 million which were pledged as collateral for actual borrowings. The lenders in these borrowings have the right to repledge or sell these securities. We obtain
securities under resale, securities borrowed and custody agreements on terms which permit us to repledge or resell the securities to others. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was
$6.7 billion. We routinely repledge or lend these securities to third parties. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the market value of collateral repledged and sold was $1.3 billion.   

      Note 6 Loans and asset quality       Our loan portfolio is comprised of three portfolio segments, commercial, lease financing and mortgages. We manage our portfolio at the class level which is comprised of six classes of financing
receivables: commercial, commercial real estate, financial institutions, lease financings, wealth management loans and mortgages, and other residential mortgages. The following tables are presented for each class of financing receivable, and provide
additional information about our credit risks and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses.       Loans    
  The table below provides the details of our loan distribution and industry concentrations of credit risk at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009:

In the ordinary course of business, we and our banking subsidiaries have made loans at prevailing interest rates and terms
to our directors and executive officers and to entities in which certain of our directors have an ownership interest or direct or indirect subsidiaries of such entities. The aggregate amount of these loans was $3 million, $4 million and
$12 million at Dec. 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 respectively. These loans are primarily extensions of credit under revolving lines of credit established for such entities.

110     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Allowance for credit losses       Transactions in the allowance for credit losses are summarized as follows:       

BNY
Mellon     111   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Nonperforming assets       The table below sets forth information about our nonperforming assets.       

(a)   
   The adoption of ASC 810 resulted in BNY Mellon consolidating loans of consolidated asset management funds of $13.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, into trading
assets. These loans are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio. Included in these loans are $218 million of nonperforming loans. These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and
allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table above.

At Dec. 31, 2010, undrawn commitments to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced
rate were not material.       Lost interest        

Lost interest   
     
   Dec. 31,   

(in millions)   
     
   2010   

2009  

2008  

Amount by which interest income recognized on nonperforming loans exceeded reversals:   

Total   
     
   $   
   2   

$  
  2  

$  
  -  

Foreign   

-   

-  

-  

Amount by which interest income would have increased if nonperforming loans at year-end had been performing for the entire
year:   

Total  (a)    
     
   $   
   20   

$  
  19  

$  
  12  

Foreign   

-   

-  

-  

112     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Impaired loans       The table below sets forth information about our impaired loans. We use the discounted cash flow method as the primary method for valuing impaired loans.   

(a)   
   The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.      

(b)   
   Excludes an aggregate of $3 million of impaired commercial loans in amounts individually less than $1 million at Dec. 31, 2010. The allowance for loan loss
associated with these loans totaled less than $1 million at Dec. 31, 2010.      

(c)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under
the accounting standard related to impaired loans.      
 
   Past due loans       The table below sets
forth information about our past due loans.       

(a)   
   At Jan. 31, 2011, $136 million of commercial real estate loans and $26 million of wealth management loans and mortgages were no longer past due.
     
         BNY
Mellon     113   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Credit quality indicators       Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross selling opportunities, avoid single name/industry concentrations and exit high risk portfolios. Each customer is assigned an
internal rating grade which is mapped to an external rating

agency grade equivalent based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time. The execution of our strategy, as well as an adjustment in the credit ratings
of our existing portfolio, has resulted in a higher percentage of the portfolio that is investment grade at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with Dec. 31 2009.

The following tables set forth
information about credit quality indicators.       Commercial loan portfolio    

The commercial loan portfolio is divided into investment grade and non-investment grade categories based on
rating criteria largely consistent with those of the public rating agencies. Each customer in the portfolio is assigned an internal rating grade. These internal rating grades are generally consistent with the ratings categories of the public rating
agencies. Customers with ratings consistent with BBB-/Baa3 or better are considered to be investment grade. Those clients with ratings lower than this threshold are considered to be non-investment grade.   
   Wealth management loans and mortgages        
 
  Wealth management non-mortgage loans are not typically correlated to external ratings. A majority of the Wealth Management loans are secured by the
customers  Investment Management Accounts or custody accounts. Eligible assets pledged for these loans are typically investment grade, fixed income securities, equities and/or mutual funds. Internal ratings for this portion of the Wealth
Management portfolio, therefore, would equate to investment-grade external ratings. Wealth Management loans are provided to select customers based on the pledge of

other types of assets, including business assets, fixed assets, or a modest amount of commercial real estate. For these latter loans, the credit quality of the obligor is carefully analyzed, but
we do not consider this modest portfolio of loans to be of investment grade quality.      Credit quality indicators for Wealth management
mortgages are not correlated to external ratings. Wealth management mortgages are typically loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured by marketable securities and/or residential property. These loans are primarily interest-only
adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan to value ratio of 61% at origination. Approximately 1% of these mortgages were past due at Dec. 31, 2010.      At Dec. 31, 2010, the private wealth mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following geographic concentrations: New York   25%; Massachusetts   17%; California   17%; Florida   8%;
and other   33%.       Other residential mortgages       The other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of 1-4 family residential mortgage loans and totaled $2.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. These loans are not typically correlated to external
ratings. Included in this portfolio is approximately $745 million of mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly      prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the remaining prime and

114     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Alt-A mortgage loans in this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 75% at origination and approximately 30% of these loans were at least 60 days delinquent. The properties
securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in California, Florida, Virginia, Maryland and the tri-state area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut).       Overdrafts       Overdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients and
totaled $6,049 million at Dec. 31, 2010, and $6,055 million at Dec. 31, 2009. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business days.   
   Margin loans       We had
$6,810 million of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $4,657 million at Dec. 31, 2009. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses
to them.       Other loans       Other
loans primarily includes loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities, as well as bankers acceptances. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our
allowance for credit losses to them.       Reverse repurchase agreements       Reverse repurchase agreements are transactions fully collateralized with high quality liquid securities. These transactions carry no credit risk and therefore are not allocated an allowance for credit
losses.   

      Note 7 Goodwill and intangible assets        Goodwill       BNY Mellon s businesses are the reporting units for which annual goodwill
impairment testing is done in accordance with ASC 350. The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the estimated fair value of the business with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value
of the business exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the business is considered not impaired.

However, if the carrying amount of the business exceeds its estimated fair value, a second step would be performed that would compare the implied fair value of the business s goodwill with
the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.      Fair value may be determined using market prices, comparison to similar assets, market multiples, discounted cash flow analysis and other determinants. Estimated cash flows extend far into the future and,
by their nature, are difficult to estimate over such an extended time-frame. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost
structures and technology, changes in discount rates, and specific industry or market sector conditions.      The carrying amount of goodwill in
each of our six businesses in continuing operations was tested in 2010 and 2009 using observable market data, when available, to estimate fair values. In addition, material events and circumstances that might be indicators of possible impairment
were assessed during interim periods. These included the changing business climate, regulatory and legal factors, changes in our competitors, and the earnings outlook for our businesses. BNY Mellon s market capitalization exceeded its net book
value at the end of each quarter of 2010 and 2009.      The fair values of each of our six businesses were estimated for the 2010 goodwill
impairment test using discounted cash flow analyses since there were few comparable public company transactions in 2009-2010. The analyses incorporated our forecasts and longer-term earnings growth estimates by business and discount rates ranging
from 12.0% to 15.5% that incorporated measured stock price volatilities of the businesses  principal public company competitors and a 6% average excess return over risk-free rates. The estimated fair values of each of these six businesses
exceeded their respective carrying amounts by 10% or greater and no goodwill impairment was indicated.      Goodwill and intangible assets could
be subject to impairment in future periods if economic conditions that impact our businesses worsen. Impairment would be a non-cash charge.   
  The level of goodwill increased in 2010 due to the acquisitions of GIS, BAS and I3 partially offset by foreign exchange translation on non-U.S. dollar
denominated goodwill.   

BNY
Mellon     115   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The table below provides a breakdown of goodwill by business.   

(b)   
   Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      
    
    Intangible assets       Indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually by comparing their fair values, estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, to their carrying values. Other intangible
assets ($3.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2010) are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Such evaluation of other intangible assets is initially based on undiscounted cash flow projections. Other key
judgments in accounting for intangibles include useful life and classification between goodwill and indefinite-lived

intangibles or other intangibles that require amortization.      The increase in intangible
assets in 2010 compared with 2009 resulted from the acquisitions of GIS, BAS and I3, partially offset by amortization of intangible assets.   
  Amortization of intangible assets was $421 million, $426 million and $473 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No impairment
losses were recorded on intangible assets in 2010 or 2009.   

The table below provides a breakdown
of intangible assets by business.       

(a)   
   Other changes in intangible assets include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      
      
  116     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Intangible assets not subject to amortization have an indefinite life.      
    
   Estimated annual amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:

Note 8 Other assets    

(a)   
   Includes Federal Reserve Bank stock of $400 million and $397 million, respectively, at cost.

Seed capital and private equity investments valued using net asset value per share    
  In our Asset Management business, we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for
institutions and other investors; as part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. Seed capital is included in trading assets, securities available-for-sale and other assets depending on the nature of the investment. BNY
Mellon also holds private equity investments, which consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings and direct equity investments. Private equity investments are included in other assets. Consistent with our policy to focus on
our core activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to private equity investments.      The fair value of these investments has been estimated
using the net asset value ( NAV ) per share of BNY Mellon s ownership interest in the funds. The table below presents information about BNY Mellon s investments in seed capital and private equity investments.

BNY
Mellon     117   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Seed capital and private equity investments valued using NAV   Dec. 31, 2010   

(dollar amounts in millions)   
      
  Fair value  

Unfunded commitments  

Redemption frequency  

Redemption notice period  

Hedge funds  (a)    
      
  $  
  23  

$  
  -  

Monthly-quarterly  

3 - 45 days  

Private equity funds  (b)    

143  

27  

N/A  

N/A  

Other funds  (c)    

74  

-  

Monthly-yearly  

(c   
   )     
 
    Total   
      
   $   
   240   

$   
   27   

(a)   
   Hedge funds include multi-strategy funds that utilize a variety of investment strategies and equity long-short hedge funds that include various funds that invest
over both long-term and short-term investment horizons.      

(b)   
   Private equity funds primarily include numerous venture capital funds that invest in various sectors of the economy. Private equity funds do not have redemption
rights. Distributions from such funds will be received as the underlying investments in the funds are liquidated.      

(c)   
   Other funds primarily include market neutral, leveraged loans, real estate and structured credit funds.     

Note 9 Deposits       The aggregate amount of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or greater was approximately $35.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and $34.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. At Dec. 31, 2010, the
scheduled maturities of all time deposits for the years 2011 through 2015 and 2016 and thereafter are as follows: $35.4 billion; $15 million; $2 million; $19 million; $3 million; and $4 million, respectively.

Note 10 Net interest revenue    

Note 11 Other noninterest expense       The following table provides a breakdown of other noninterest expense presented on the consolidated income statement.       
 
    In 2010 and 2009, we recorded credits to support agreement charges of $7 million and $15 million, respectively.
These credits reflect a reduction in the support agreement reserve, primarily due to improved pricing of Lehman securities. At Dec. 31, 2010, the value of Lehman securities increased to approximately 23.0% from 19.5% at Dec. 31, 2009.   
  In 2008, we recorded support agreement charges of $894 million. In response to market events in 2008, we voluntarily provided support to clients
invested in money market mutual funds, cash sweep funds and similar collective funds managed by our affiliates, as well as clients invested in funds within our securities lending business. These support agreements were designed to enable these funds
to continue to operate at a stable net asset value.   

118     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 12 Restructuring charges        Global location strategy       BNY Mellon continues to execute its global location strategy.
This strategy includes migrating positions to our global growth centers and is expected to result in moving and/or eliminating approximately 3,000 positions. In 2009, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $139 million related to this
strategy. This charge was comprised of $102 million for severance costs and $37 million primarily for asset write-offs and expense related to the closing of offices. In 2010, we recorded additional charges of $35 million associated
with the global location strategy. The charge recorded in 2010 was comprised of $29 million for severance costs and $6 million primarily for asset write-offs and expense related to the closing of offices.   

Severance payments related to these positions are primarily paid over the salary continuance period in
accordance with the separation plan.       Workforce reduction program       In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced that, due to weakness in the global economy, we would reduce our workforce by an estimated 1,800 positions, and as a result, recorded a pre-tax restructuring
charge of $181 million. In 2010, we recorded a recovery of $7 million associated with this workforce reduction program.      We
completed this program in 2010. Severance payments related to positions covered by this program are primarily paid over the salary continuance period in accordance with the separation plan.

The restructuring charges are
recorded as a separate line on the income statement. The following tables present the activity in the restructuring reserves through Dec. 31, 2010.       

BNY
Mellon     119   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The restructuring charges were recorded in the Other business as these restructurings were corporate
initiatives and not directly related to the operating performance of these businesses. The tables below present the restructuring charges if they had been allocated by business.   

Note 13 Income taxes    

The components of income (loss) before taxes are as follows:   

The components of our net deferred tax liability are as follows:       
 
  As of Dec. 31, 2010, we have net operating loss carryfowards for state and local income tax purposes of $1.8 billion which will expire in 2029. In
addition, we have alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $45 million with an indefinite life. We have not recorded a valuation allowance because we expect to realize our deferred tax assets including these carryovers.   
  As of Dec. 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.7 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have been permanently reinvested abroad
and for which no provision has been recorded for income tax that would occur if repatriated. It is not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.

120     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The following table presents a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective
income tax rate applicable to income from continuing operations.       

Our total tax reserves as of Dec. 31, 2010, were $289 million compared with $335 million at Dec.
31, 2009. If these tax reserves were unnecessary, $232 million would affect the effective tax rate in future periods. We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to income taxes in income tax expense. Included in the
balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2010, is accrued interest, where applicable, of $52 million. The additional tax expense related to interest for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010, was $9 million compared with $89 million for the year ended Dec. 31,
2009.      Our federal consolidated income tax returns are closed to examination through 2002. Our New York State and New York City return
examinations have been completed through 2008. Our United Kingdom income tax returns are closed through 2007.   

      Note 14 Extraordinary (loss)   consolidation of commercial paper conduit    
  At the end of 2008, we called the first loss notes of Old Slip, making us the primary beneficiary and triggering the consolidation of this commercial
paper conduit. The consolidation of this conduit resulted in the recognition of extraordinary losses (non-cash accounting charges) of $26 million after-tax, or $0.02 per common share in 2008.

BNY
Mellon     121   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 15 Long-term debt    

(a)   
   Fixed rate.      
    
   The aggregate amounts of notes and debentures that mature during the next five years for BNY Mellon are as
follows: 2011   $1.30 billion , 2012   $3.45 billion, 2013   $1.61 billion, 2014   $2.27 billion and 2015   $1.43 billion. At Dec. 31, 2010, subordinated debt aggregating $845 million will be
redeemable at our option as follows: 2011   $592 million, 2012   $144 million, and after 2012   $109 million.   
   Junior subordinated debentures       Wholly
owned subsidiaries of BNY Mellon (the  Trusts ) have issued cumulative Company-Obligated Mandatory Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding Solely Junior Subordinated Debentures ( Trust Preferred
Securities ). The sole

assets of each trust are junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of BNY Mellon whose maturities and interest rates match the Trust Preferred Securities. Our obligations under the
agreements that relate to the Trust Preferred Securities, the Trusts and the debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by us of the Trusts  obligations under the Trust Preferred Securities. The assets for Mellon Capital IV are
currently (i) our remarketable 6.044% junior subordinated notes due 2043, and (ii) interests in stock purchase contracts between Mellon Capital IV and us. On the  stock purchase date,  as defined in the prospectus supplement for
the Trust Preferred Securities of Mellon Capital IV, the sole assets of the trust will be shares of a series of our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock.

The following table sets forth a
summary of the Trust Preferred Securities issued by the Trusts as of Dec. 31, 2010:       

(a)   
   Junior subordinated debentures and interest in stock purchase contracts for Mellon Capital IV.      

(b)   
   Call price decreases ratably to par in the year 2016.      

We have the option to shorten the maturity of BNY Capital IV to 2013 or extend the maturity to 2047. The
BNY Capital Preferred Trust Securities have been converted to floating rate via interest rate swaps.   

      Note 16 Securitizations and variable interest entities    
   Variable Interest Entities       Accounting
guidance on the consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ( VIEs ), is included in ASC 810,

Consolidation , and ASU 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities.    
  Effective Jan. 1, 2010, the FASB approved ASU 2010-10  Amendments for Certain Investment Funds,  which defers the requirements of ASU 2009-17
for asset managers  interests in entities that apply the specialized accounting guidance for investment companies or that have the attributes of investment companies and for interests in money market funds.

122     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Accounting guidance on the consolidation of VIEs applies to certain entities in which the equity investors:

do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support, and      

lack one or more of the following characteristics of a controlling financial interest:      

The power through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic
performance (ASU 2009-17 model).      

The direct or indirect ability to make decisions about the entity s activities through voting rights or similar rights (ASC 810 model).

The obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity.      

The right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity.         BNY Mellon s VIEs generally include retail, institutional and alternative investment funds offered to its retail and institutional customers in which it acts as the fund s investment manager.
BNY Mellon earns management fees on these funds as well as performance fees in certain funds. It may also provide start-up capital in its new funds. These VIEs are included in the scope of ASU 2010-10 and are reviewed for consolidation based on the
guidance in ASC 810.      BNY Mellon applies ASC 810 to its mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, collective investment funds and real
estate investment trusts. If these entities are determined to be VIEs, primary beneficiary calculations are prepared in accordance with ASC 810 to determine whether or not BNY Mellon is the primary beneficiary and required to consolidate the VIE.
The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the variable interests  expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns or both.      The primary beneficiary calculations include estimates of ranges and probabilities of losses and returns from the funds. The calculated expected gains and expected losses are allocated to the variable
interest holders of the funds, which are generally the fund s investors and which may include BNY Mellon, in order to determine which entity is required to consolidate the VIE, if any.

BNY Mellon has other VIEs, including securitization trusts, which are no longer considered QSPEs, and CLOs,
in which BNY Mellon serves as the investment manager. In addition, we provide trust and custody services for a fee to entities sponsored by other corporations in which we have no other interest. These VIEs are evaluated under the guidance included
in ASU 2009-17. BNY Mellon has two securitizations and several CLOs, which are assessed for consolidation in accordance with ASU 2009-17.   
  The primary beneficiary of these VIEs is the entity whose variable interests provide it with a controlling financial interest, which includes the power
to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.   
  In order to determine if it has a controlling financial interest in these VIEs, BNY Mellon assesses the VIE s purpose and design along with the
risks it was designed to create and pass through to its variable interest holders. We also assess our involvement in the VIE and the involvement of any other variable interest holders in the VIE.   
  Generally, as the sponsor and the manager of its VIEs, BNY Mellon has the power to control the activities that significantly impact the VIE s
economic performance. Both a qualitative and quantitative analysis of BNY Mellon s variable interests are performed to determine if BNY Mellon has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could
potentially be significant to the VIE. The analyses included assessments related to the expected performance of the VIEs and its related impact on BNY Mellon s seed capital, management fees or residual interests in the VIEs. We also assess any
potential impact the VIE s expected performance has on our performance fees.      The following table presents the incremental assets and
liabilities included in BNY Mellon s consolidated financial statements, after applying intercompany eliminations, as of Dec. 31, 2010, based on the assessments performed in accordance with ASC 810 and ASU 2009-17. The net assets of any
consolidated VIE are solely available to settle the liabilities of the VIE and to settle any investors  ownership liquidation requests, including any seed capital invested in the VIE by BNY Mellon.

BNY
Mellon     123   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

BNY Mellon voluntarily provided capital support agreements to certain VIEs (see below). With the exception of these agreements, we are not contractually
required to provide financial or any other support to any of our VIEs. Additionally, creditors of any consolidated VIEs do not have any recourse to the general credit of BNY Mellon.       Non-consolidated VIEs       As of Dec. 31, 2010, the following assets related to the VIEs,
where BNY Mellon is not the primary beneficiary, are included in its consolidated financial statements.       
 
  The maximum loss exposure indicated in the above table relates solely to BNY Mellon s seed capital or residual interests invested in the VIEs.
      Credit supported VIEs       BNY
Mellon voluntarily provided limited credit support to certain money market, collective, commingled and separate account funds (the  Funds ). Entering into such support agreements represents an event under ASC 810, and is subject to its
interpretations.      In analyzing the Funds for which credit support was provided, it was determined that interest rate risk and credit risk are
the two main risks that the Funds are designed to create and pass through to their investors. Accordingly, interest rate and credit risk were analyzed to determine if BNY Mellon was the primary beneficiary of each of the Funds.

BNY Mellon s analysis of the credit risk variability and interest rate risk variability associated
with the supported Funds resulted in BNY Mellon not being the primary beneficiary and therefore the Funds were not consolidated.      The table
below shows the financial statement items related to non-consolidated VIEs to which we have provided credit support agreements at Dec. 31, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2009.       

Credit supported VIEs at Dec. 31, 2010   

Maximum loss exposure    

(in millions)    
      
  Assets  

Liabilities  

Other   
      
   $   
   -   

$   
   -   

$   
   13   

Consolidated credit supported VIEs    
  Certain funds have been created solely with securities that are subject to credit support agreements where we have agreed to absorb the majority of loss.
Accordingly, these funds have been consolidated into BNY Mellon and have affected the following financial statement items at Dec. 31, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2009.       

The maximum loss exposure shown above for the credit support agreements provided to BNY Mellon s VIEs primarily reflects a complete loss on the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. securities for BNY Mellon s clients that accepted our offer of support. As of Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon recorded $126 million in liabilities related to its VIEs for which credit support agreements were
provided.   

124     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 17 Shareholders  equity       BNY Mellon has 3.5 billion authorized shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share, 100 million authorized shares of preferred stock with a par value of $0.01 per share. At Dec.
31, 2010, 1,241,530,195 shares of common stock were outstanding. There were no shares of preferred stock outstanding at Dec. 31, 2010.      In
June 2010, BNY Mellon priced 25.9 million common shares in an underwritten public offering, at $27.00 per common share. In connection with this offering, BNY Mellon entered into a forward sale agreement with a forward purchaser, who borrowed
and sold to the public through the underwriters shares of the Company s common stock. BNY Mellon settled the forward sale agreement in September 2010 and received net proceeds of $677 million from this transaction.   
   Troubled Asset Relief Program       In 2008,
BNY Mellon issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury $3 billion of preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with the terms of the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program.   
  In 2009, BNY Mellon repurchased the Series B preferred stock for its $3 billion liquidation value. BNY Mellon recorded an after-tax redemption
charge of $196.5 million in 2009, representing the difference between the amortized cost of the Series B preferred stock and the repurchase price.      Also in 2009, BNY Mellon repurchased for $136 million the warrant for 14,516,129 shares of our common stock.       Common stock repurchase program       On Dec. 18, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to 35 million shares of common stock. There were no shares repurchased under this program in 2010. At Dec. 31, 2010, 33.8 million shares were available for repurchase under the December 2007 program. There is no expiration
date on this repurchase program.   
 
    Capital adequacy       Regulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with established quantitative measurements. For the
Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries must, among other things, qualify as well capitalized. In addition, major bank      holding companies such as the Parent are expected by the regulators to be well capitalized.      As
of Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, the Parent and our bank subsidiaries were considered well capitalized on the basis of the ratios (defined by regulation) of Total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and leverage (Tier 1 capital to average assets).
     The following tables present the components of our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital, as well as our consolidated and largest bank
subsidiary capital ratios at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel 1 guidelines and including discontinued operations.      

BNY
Mellon     125   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   For a banking institution to qualify as  well capitalized , its Tier 1, Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) and leverage capital ratios must be at least 6%, 10% and
5%, respectively. To qualify as  adequately capitalized , Tier 1, Total and leverage capital ratios must be at least 4%, 8% and 3%, respectively.            
 
   At Dec. 31, 2010, we had $1,676 million of trust preferred securities outstanding, net of issuance
costs, all of which qualified as Tier 1 capital.      If a bank holding company or bank fails to qualify as  adequately capitalized, 
regulatory sanctions and limitations are imposed. At Dec. 31, 2010, the amounts of capital by which BNY Mellon and our largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, exceed the well capitalized guidelines are as follows:   

Note 18 Comprehensive results    

(b)   
   Includes a net reclassification adjustment of $14 million to retained earnings from other comprehensive income.      

126     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 19 Stock based compensation       Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units ( RSUs ) and other stock-based awards to employees of BNY Mellon. At Dec. 31,
2010, under the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved in April 2008, we may issue 33,594,759 new options. Of this amount, 18,986,212 shares may be issued as restricted stock or RSUs. Stock-based compensation expense related to retirement eligibility
vesting totaled $25 million in 2010 and $16 million in 2009, respectively.       Stock options    
  Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options at fair market value at the date of grant to officers and employees of BNY
Mellon. Generally, each option granted is exercisable between one and ten years from the date of grant.      The compensation cost that has been
charged against income was $87 million, $86 million and $108 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $35 million, $35 million and $44 million
for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
 
   We used a lattice-based binomial method to calculate the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of
each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the weighted-average assumptions noted in the following table:       
 
  For 2010 and 2009, assumptions were determined as follows:       

Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our stock, historical volatility of our stock, and other factors.

We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model.      

The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of grant.

The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted
are expected to be outstanding.      

A summary of the status of our
options as of Dec. 31, 2010, and changes during the year, is presented below:       
 
         BNY
Mellon     127   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The weighted-average fair value of options at grant date was $8.38 in 2010, $4.59 in 2009 and $10.33 in 2008.   
  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended Dec. 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $12 million, $3 million and
$53 million, respectively.      As of Dec. 31, 2010, there was $146 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
options. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of two years.      Cash received from
option exercises for the years ended Dec. 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $31 million, $16 million and $182 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercised totaled $1 million,
$4 million and $14 million for the years ended Dec. 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Restricted stock, restricted stock
units ( RSU ) and Total Shareholder Return awards       Restricted stock and RSUs are granted under our Long-Term Incentive Plans at
no cost to the recipient. These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued

employment, for a specified period. The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting rights and generally is entitled to dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the
recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse. The recipient generally is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is
outstanding but does not receive voting rights.      In March 2008, BNY Mellon granted Total Shareholder Return ( TSR ) awards. Under
the terms of the TSR Performance share awards, a target award comprised of restricted stock was granted to an employee at the beginning of the three-year performance period beginning on Jan. 1, 2008 through Dec. 31, 2010. BNY Mellon s actual
TSR for the performance period is compared to the results of a peer group (weighted two-thirds) and an S P 500 Financial Services Index (weighted one-third). Any dividends earned during the vesting period are held in escrow and are paid out at
the end of the performance period along with the actual shares earned based on BNY Mellon s performance relative to the two peer groups. There were 241,084 total TSR awards outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2010.   
  The fair value of restricted stock, RSUs and TSRs is equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The expense is recognized
over the vesting period of one to seven years. The total compensation expense recognized for restricted stock, RSUs and TSRs was $119 million, $124 million and $134 million recognized in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

128     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The following table summarizes our nonvested restricted stock, RSU and TSR activity for 2010.   
   
    As of Dec. 31, 2010, $119 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock, RSUs and TSRs is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
approximately two years.       Subsidiary Long-Term Incentive plans       BNY Mellon also has several subsidiary Long-Term Incentive Plans which have issued restricted subsidiary shares to certain employees. These share awards are subject to forfeiture until certain
restrictions have lapsed, including continued

employment for a specified period of time. The shares are non-voting and non-dividend paying. Once the restrictions lapse, which are generally 3-5 years, the shares can only be sold, at the
option of the employee, to BNY Mellon at a price based generally on the fair value of the subsidiary at the time of repurchase. In certain instances BNY Mellon has an election to call the shares.   

      Note 20 Employee benefit plans       BNY Mellon has defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and eligible part-time employees and other post-retirement plans providing healthcare benefits
for certain retired employees.       Pension and post-retirement healthcare plans       The following tables report the combined data for our domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans.

BNY
Mellon     129   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   The benefit obligation for pension benefits is the projected benefit obligation and for healthcare benefits, it is the accumulated benefit obligation.

(a)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      
      
  130     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Changes in other comprehensive (income) loss in 2010   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

Net loss (gain) arising during period   
      
  $  
  101  

$  
  (10  
  )   
     
  $  
  (4  
  )   
     
  $  
  -  

Recognition of prior years net (loss)   

(71  
  )   

(11  
  )   

(5  
  )   

1  

Prior service cost (credit) arising during period   

(26  
  )   

3  

-  

-  

Recognition of prior years  service (cost) credit   

14  

-  

-  

-  

Recognition of net initial (obligation) asset   

-  

-  

(4  
  )   

-  

Foreign exchange adjustment   

N/A  

(2  
  )   

N/A  

1  

Total recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss (before tax
effects)   
      
   $   
   18   

$   
   (20   
   )    
     
   $   
   (13   
   )    
     
   $   
   2   

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit   
   cost (income) in 2011 (before tax effects)    
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

(Gain) loss recognition   
      
  $  
  109  

$  
  14  

$  
  4  

$  
  1  

Prior service cost recognition   

(16  
  )   

-  

-  

-  

Net initial obligation (asset) recognition   

-  

-  

4  

-  

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $3.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and $3.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2009.

For information on pension assumptions see the  Critical accounting estimates  section.   
   Assumed healthcare cost trend Domestic post-retirement healthcare benefits       The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used in determining benefit expense for 2011 is 8.00% decreasing to 5.00% in 2016. This projection is based on various economic models that forecast a decreasing
growth rate of healthcare expenses over time. The underlying assumption is that healthcare expense growth cannot outpace gross national product ( GNP ) growth indefinitely, and over time a lower

equilibrium growth rate will be achieved. Further, the growth rate assumed in 2016 bears a reasonable relationship to the discount rate.      An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by $14.9 million, or 6%, and the sum of the
service and interest costs by $0.9 million, or 6%. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $13.4 million, or 6%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by
$0.8 million, or 6%.       Assumed healthcare cost trend Foreign post-retirement healthcare benefits    
  An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by
less than $1 million and the sum of the service and interest costs by less than $1 million. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by less than $1 million and
the sum of the service and interest costs by less than $1 million.       Investment strategy and asset allocation    
  BNY Mellon is responsible for the administration of various pension and healthcare post-retirement benefits plans, both domestically and internationally.
Prior to July 21, 2008, the plans were administered by The Bank of New York Company, Inc. s and Mellon Financial Corporation s respective Benefits Committees. Since July 21, 2008, the domestic plans

BNY
Mellon     131   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

have been administered by BNY Mellon s Benefits Administration Committee (the  Committee ). Prior to July 21, 2008, the Benefits Committee was, and since July 21, 2008,
BNY Mellon s Benefits Administration Committee has been, a named fiduciary of the domestic plans. Subject to the following, at all relevant times, BNY Mellon s Benefits Investment Committee, another named fiduciary to the Plan, is
responsible for the investment of Plan assets. The Committee s responsibilities include the investment of all domestic defined benefit plan assets, as well as the determination of investment options offered to participants in all domestic
defined contribution plans. The Benefits Investment Committee conducts periodic reviews of investment performances, asset allocation and investment manager suitability.      Our investment objective for U.S. and foreign plans is to maximize total return while maintaining a broadly diversified portfolio for the primary purpose of satisfying obligations for future benefit
payments.      Equities are the main holding of the plans. Alternative investments (including private equities) and fixed income securities
provide diversification and, in certain cases, lower the volatility of returns. In general, equity securities and alternative investments within any domestic plan s portfolio can be maintained in the range of 30% to 70% of total plan assets,
fixed-income securities can range from 20% to 50% of plan assets and cash equivalents can be held in amounts ranging from 0% to 5% of plan assets. Actual asset allocation within the approved ranges varies from time to time based on economic
conditions (both current and forecast) and the advice of professional advisors.      Our pension assets were invested as follows at Dec. 31,
2010 and 2009:       
    We
held no BNY Mellon Corporation stock in our pension plans at Dec. 31, 2009 and 2010. Assets of

the U.S. post-retirement healthcare plan are invested in an insurance contract.      BNY
Mellon expects to make cash contributions to fund its defined benefit pension plans in 2011 of $26 million for the domestic plans and $57 million for the foreign plans.      BNY Mellon expects to make cash contributions to fund its post-retirement healthcare plans in 2011 of $21 million for the domestic plans and less than $1 million for the foreign plans.
     The following benefit payments for BNY Mellon s pension and healthcare plans, which reflect expected future service as appropriate, are
expected to be paid:       
 
  Effective Jan. 1, 2011, the U.S. pension plan was amended to reduce benefits earned by participants for service after 2010, and to freeze plan
participation such that no new employees will enter the plan after Dec. 31, 2010.       Fair value measurement of plan assets    
  In accordance with ASC 715, BNY Mellon has established a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements of its pension plan assets based upon the
transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset as of the measurement date. The valuation hierarchy is consistent with guidance in ASC 820 which is detailed in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such
assets pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.   

132     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Cash and currency       This category consists primarily of foreign currency balances. Foreign currency is translated monthly based on current exchange rates.       Common and preferred stock and exchange traded funds       These types of securities are valued
at the closing price reported in the active market in which the individual securities are traded, if available. Where there is no readily available market quotations, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels
of price transparency.       Venture capital investments and partnership interests       There are no readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the investments is based on the Plan s ownership percentage of the fair value of the underlying funds as provided
by the fund managers. These funds are typically valued on a quarterly basis. The Plan s venture capital investments and partnership interests are valued at NAV as a practical expedient for fair value.   
   Collective trust funds       There are no
readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the fund is based on the securities in the portfolio, which typically is the amount that the fund might reasonably expect to receive for the securities upon a sale. These funds
are either valued on a daily or monthly basis.       Corporate debt and government obligations    
  Certain corporate debt and government obligations are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the bonds are traded. Other
corporate debt and government obligations are valued based on yields currently available on comparable securities of issuers with similar credit ratings. When quoted prices are not available for identical or similar bonds, the bonds are valued using
discounted cash flows that maximizes observable inputs, such as current yields of similar instruments, but includes adjustments for certain risks that may not be observable, such as credit and liquidity risks.   
   U.S. Treasury securities       Treasury
securities are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the individual security is traded.

Fund of funds       There are no readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the fund is based on NAVs of the funds in the portfolio, which reflects the value of the underlying securities. The fair
value of the underlying securities is typically the amount that the fund might reasonably expect to receive upon selling those hard to value or illiquid securities within the portfolios. For securities that are readily valued, fair value is the
closing price at the end of the period. These funds are valued on a monthly basis.      The following tables present the fair value of each major
category of plan assets as of Dec. 31, 2010, by captions and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described above).       

BNY
Mellon     133   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

At Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon had $351 million of pension and post retirement plan assets in alternative investment funds valued using net asset
value. These investments are redeemable at net asset value under agreements with the underlying funds. These investments include $125 million that contain a redemption provision which requires notice of 90 days.   
  Our alternative investment funds consist primarily of venture capital and partnership interests and hedge fund of funds. As of Dec. 31, 2010, there were
$41 million of unfunded commitments relating to our venture capital and partnership interests.   

Changes in Level 3 fair value
measurements       The table below includes a rollforward of the plan assets for the years ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009 (including the change
in fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.       

134     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Defined contribution plans       We have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) covering certain domestic full-time employees with more than one year of service. The ESOP works in conjunction with the defined benefit pension
plan. Employees are entitled to the higher of their benefit under the ESOP or such defined benefit pension plan at retirement. Benefits payable under the defined benefit pension plan are offset by the equivalent value of benefits earned under the
ESOP.      Contributions are made equal to required principal and interest payments on borrowings by the ESOP. At Dec. 31, 2010, and Dec. 31,
2009, the ESOP owned 7.4 million and 8.1 million shares of our stock, respectively. The fair value of total ESOP assets was $228 million and $246 million at Dec. 31, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2009. There were no contributions in 2010,
2009 or 2008. There was no ESOP related expense in 2010, 2009 and 2008.      We have defined contribution plans, excluding the ESOP, for which we
recognized a cost of $106 million in 2010, $98 million in 2009 and $107 million in 2008.      Effective September 2008, the
Benefits Investment Committee appointed Fiduciary Counselors, Inc. to serve as the independent fiduciary to (i) make certain fiduciary decisions related to the continued prudence of offering the common stock of BNY Mellon or its affiliates as
an investment option under the plans other than with respect to plan sponsor decisions, and (ii) select and monitor any internally managed investments (active or passive, including mutual funds) of BNY Mellon or its affiliates to be offered to
participants as investment options under the Plan.   

Note 21 Company financial information       Our bank subsidiaries are subject to dividend limitations under the Federal Reserve Act, as well as national and state banking laws. Under these statutes, prior regulatory consent is required for
dividends in any year that would exceed the bank s net profits for such year combined with retained net profits for the prior two years. Additionally, such bank subsidiaries may not declare dividends in excess of net profits on hand, as
defined, after deducting the amount by which the principal amount of all loans, on which interest is past due for a period of six months or more, exceeds the allowance for credit losses. The Bank of New York Mellon, which is a New York state
chartered bank, is also prohibited from paying dividends in excess of net profits. As a result of charges recorded in 2009 related to the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. are
required to obtain consent from our regulators prior to paying a dividend. Despite this limitation, management estimates that liquidity at the Parent will continue to be sufficient to meet BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends at the current
rate as well as any increase to the dividend approved as part of our capital plan which was submitted to the Federal Reserve in 2011.      The
payment of dividends also is limited by minimum capital requirements imposed on banks. As of Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries exceeded these minimum requirements.      The bank subsidiaries declared dividends of $239 million in 2010, $659 million in 2009 and $575 million in 2008. The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued additional guidelines that
require   

BNY
Mellon     135   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

bank holding companies and national banks to continually evaluate the level of cash dividends in relation to their respective operating income, capital needs, asset quality and overall financial
condition.      The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement with respect to the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies.
The policy statement provides that as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the
prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the holding company s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board can also prohibit a dividend if payment would constitute an
unsafe or unsound banking practice. Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends would require consultation with the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like
us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.      On Nov. 17, 2010, the Federal
Reserve issued Revised Temporary Addendum to SR letter 09-4. The letter described the process the Federal Reserve will follow to assess comprehensive capital plans of the 19 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program bank holding companies
including any request to take capital actions such as increased dividends or stock buybacks. The comprehensive capital plans, which were prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, included bank developed baseline and stress projections as well as a
supervisory stress projection using adverse macroeconomic assumptions provided by the Federal Reserve.   

The Company also provided the Federal Reserve with projections covering the time period it will take us to
fully comply with Basel III capital guidelines, including the 7% Tier 1 common, 8.5% Tier 1, and 3% leverage ratios. Certain templates were submitted to the Federal Reserve on Dec. 22, 2010 and the capital plan was filed by Jan. 7, 2011. The Federal
Reserve is expected to provide a response to first quarter capital actions, such as a dividend increase and share repurchases, no later than March 21, 2011 and feedback on the comprehensive capital plan by April 30, 2011.   
  The Federal Reserve Act limits and requires collateral for extensions of credit by our insured subsidiary banks to BNY Mellon and certain of its non-bank
affiliates. Also, there are restrictions on the amounts of investments by such banks in stock and other securities of BNY Mellon and such affiliates, and restrictions on the acceptance of their securities as collateral for loans by such banks.
Extensions of credit by the banks to each of our affiliates are limited to 10% of such bank s regulatory capital, and in the aggregate for BNY Mellon and all such affiliates to 20%, and collateral must be between 100% and 130% of the amount of
the credit, depending on the type of collateral.      Our insured subsidiary banks are required to maintain reserve balances with Federal Reserve
Banks under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. Required balances averaged $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion for the years 2010 and 2009, respectively.      In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the
bank s shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.   

136     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The Parent s condensed financial statements are as follows:   
   Condensed Income Statement The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation )
   ( a  )         

(a)   
   Includes results of discontinued operations and the extraordinary loss in 2008.

Condensed Balance Sheet The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)    

BNY
Mellon     137   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Condensed Statement of Cash Flows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.

Note 22 Fair value of financial instruments       The carrying amounts of our financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting methods   see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The
following disclosure discusses these instruments on a uniform fair value basis. However, active markets do not exist for a significant portion of these instruments, principally loans and commitments. As a result, fair value determinations require
significant subjective judgments regarding future cash flows. Other judgments would result in different fair values. Among the assumptions we used are discount rates ranging principally from 0.12% to 6.46% at Dec. 31, 2010, and 0.05% to 6.27% at
Dec. 31, 2009. The fair value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented throughout this report.      Note 23,  Fair value measurement  presents assets and liabilities measured at fair value by the three level valuation hierarchy established under ASC 820, as well as a roll forward schedule of
fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs. Note 24,  Fair value option  presents the instruments for which fair value accounting was elected and the corresponding income statement impact of those instruments. A summary
of the practices used for determining fair value is as follows.       Interest-bearing deposits with banks    
  The fair value of interest-bearing deposits with banks is based on discounted cash flows.       Securities, trading activities, and derivatives used for ALM       The fair value of securities
and trading assets and liabilities is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes or pricing models. Fair value amounts for derivative instruments, such as options, futures and forward rate contracts, commitments to purchase and sell foreign
exchange, and foreign currency swaps, are similarly determined. The fair value of over-the-counter interest rate swaps is the discounted value of projected future cash flows, adjusted for other factors including, but not limited to and if
applicable, optionality and implied volatilities, as well as counterparty credit.   

138     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Loans and commitments       For residential mortgage loans, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, adjusting where appropriate for prepayment estimates, using interest rates currently being offered for loans
with similar terms and maturities to borrowers. To determine the fair value of other types of loans, BNY Mellon uses discounted future cash flows using current market rates. The fair value of commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit
and commercial letters of credit is based upon the cost to settle the commitment.       Other financial assets    
  Fair value is assumed to equal carrying value for these assets due to their short maturity.       Deposits, borrowings and long-term debt       The fair value of noninterest-bearing deposits
and payables to customers and broker-dealers is assumed to be their carrying amount. The fair value of interest-bearing deposits, borrowings and long-term debt is based upon current rates for instruments of the same remaining maturity or quoted
market prices for the same or similar issues.   

BNY
Mellon     139   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The table below summarizes the carrying amount of the hedged financial instruments and the related notional
amount of the hedge and estimated fair value (unrealized gain (loss)) of the derivatives that were linked to these items:       

Note 23 Fair value measurement       The guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement , included in ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. It establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an
asset or liability as of the measurement date and expands the disclosures about instruments measured at fair value. ASC 820 requires consideration of a company s own creditworthiness when valuing liabilities.   
  The standard provides a consistent definition of fair value, which focuses on exit price in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or
distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, a change in valuation technique or the use
of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. In such instances, determining the price at which willing market participants would transact at the measurement date under current market conditions depends on the facts and circumstances and
requires the use of significant judgment. The objective is to determine from weighted indicators of fair value a reasonable point within the range that is most representative of fair value under current market conditions.

Determination of fair value       Following is a description of our valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value. We have established processes for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted
market prices, where available. For financial instruments where quotes from recent exchange transactions are not available, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis, comparison to similar instruments, and the use of financial
models. Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. Model-based pricing uses inputs of observable prices for interest rates, foreign exchange rates, option volatilities and other
factors. Models are benchmarked and validated by an independent internal risk management function. Our valuation process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration concerns, observability of model
parameters and the results of stress tests. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.   
  Most derivative contracts are valued using internally developed models which are calibrated to observable market data and employ standard market pricing
theory for their valuations. An initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on a AA credit curve. Then, to arrive at a fair value that incorporates counterparty credit risk, a credit
adjustment is made to these results by discounting each trade s expected exposures to the counterparty using the counterparty s credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market. We also adjust expected liabilities to the
counterparty using BNY Mellon s own credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative position is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads as well as those of our
counterparties.      In certain cases, we may face additional costs to exit large risk positions or recent prices may not be observable for
instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets. The costs to exit large risk positions are based on evaluating the negative change in the market during the time it would take for us to bring those positions to normal market levels for
those instruments. Upon evaluating the uncertainty in valuing financial instruments subject to liquidity issues, we make an adjustment to their value. The

140     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

determination of the liquidity adjustment includes the availability of external quotes, the time since the latest available quote and the price volatility of the instrument.   
  Certain parameters in some financial models are not directly observable and, therefore, are based on managements  estimates and judgments. These
financial instruments are normally traded less actively. Examples include certain credit products where parameters such as correlation and recovery rates are unobservable. We apply valuation adjustments to mitigate the possibility of error and
revision in the model based estimate value.      The methods described above may produce a current fair value calculation that may not be
indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. We believe our methods of determining fair value are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies or different
assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value.       Valuation hierarchy    
  ASC 820 establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of
an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are described below.        Level 1  : Inputs to the valuation
methodology are recent quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity securities and derivative financial instruments actively traded on exchanges and U.S.
Treasury securities and U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over the counter markets.        Level 2  :
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, for example, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable
or can be corroborated, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt instruments that are traded less frequently than exchange traded securities and
derivative instruments whose model inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by market observable data. Examples in this category are certain variable and fixed rate agency

and non-agency securities, corporate debt securities and derivative contracts.   
    Level 3  : Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. Examples in this category
include interests in certain securitized financial assets, certain private equity investments, and derivative contracts that are highly structured or long-dated.      A financial instrument s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.   
  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such
instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments    
  Where quoted market prices are not available, we generally base the fair value of loans and unfunded lending-related commitments on observable market
prices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics. If observable market prices are not available, we base the fair value on estimated cash flows adjusted for credit risk which are discounted
using an interest rate appropriate for the maturity of the applicable loans or the unfunded commitments.      Unrealized gains and losses on
unfunded lending commitments carried at fair value are classified in Other assets and Other liabilities, respectively. Loans and unfunded lending commitments carried at fair value are generally classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
      Securities       Where quoted
prices are available in an active market, we classify the securities within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities are defined as both long and short positions. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government bonds and exchange-traded
equities.      If quoted market prices are not available, we estimate fair values using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar
characteristics or discounted cash flows. Examples of such instruments, which would generally be classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy, include certain agency and

BNY
Mellon     141   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and European floating rate notes.      For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency
that employ financial models or obtain comparison to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.      Specifically, the pricing
sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and speed of prepayment for the types of transaction and apply such variables
to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current marketplace and classify such securities as Level 2. Pricing sources discontinue pricing any specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient
observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price.      In addition, we have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS
and the pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major inter-dealer brokers. The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the inter-dealer
brokers.      For securities with bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is analyzed and that information is included in
the fair value assessment for such securities.      In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to the
valuation, we classify those securities in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities classified within Level 3 primarily include other retained interests in securitizations, securities of state and political subdivisions and other debt
securities.      At Dec. 31, 2010, approximately 99% of our securities were valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price
transparency. Less than 1% of our securities were priced based on economic models and non-binding dealer quotes, and are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.

Consolidated collateralized loan obligations    
  BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market. The returns to the note holders are
solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets. Based on the structure of the CLOs, the valuation of the assets is attributable to the senior note holders. Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected
in the income statement as investment income and interest of asset management fund note holders, respectively.       Derivatives    
  We classify exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include exchanged-traded equity and
foreign exchange options. Since few other classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, most of our derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters and we
classify them in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Such derivatives include basic interest rate swaps and options and credit default swaps.   
  Derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable market parameters and that are traded less actively or in markets that lack two-way flow,
are classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include long-dated interest rate or currency swaps, where swap rates may be unobservable for longer maturities; and certain credit products, where correlation and recovery rates are
unobservable. Certain interest rate swaps with counterparties that are highly structured entities require significant judgment and analysis to adjust the value determined by standard pricing models. The fair value of these interest rate swaps
compose less than 1% of our derivative financial instruments. Additional disclosures of derivative instruments are provided in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Seed capital       In our Asset Management business we manage investment assets, including
equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for institutions and other investors; as part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. Seed capital is included in trading assets, securities
available-for-sale and other assets, depending on the   

142     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

nature of the investment. When applicable, we value seed capital based on the published net asset value ( NAV ) of the fund. We include funds in which ownership interests in the fund
are publicly traded in an active market and institutional funds in which investors trade in and out daily in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. We include open-end funds where investors are allowed to sell their ownership interest back to the fund
less frequently than daily and where our interest in the fund contains no other rights or obligations in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. However, we generally include investments in funds that allow investors to sell their ownership interest
back to the fund less frequently than monthly in Level 3, unless actual redemption prices are observable.      For other types of investments
in funds, we consider all of the rights and obligations inherent in our ownership interest, including the reported NAV as well as other factors that affect the fair value of our interest in the fund. To the extent the NAV measurements reported for
the investments are based on unobservable inputs or include other rights and obligations (e.g., obligation to meet cash calls), we generally classify them in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.   
   Certain interests in securitizations    
  For certain interests in securitizations which are classified in securities available-for-sale and other assets, we use discounted cash flow models which
generally include assumptions of projected finance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses, prepayment assumptions and estimates of payments to third-party investors. When available, we compare our fair value estimates
and assumptions to market activity and to the actual results of the securitized portfolio. Changes in these assumptions may significantly impact our estimate of fair value of the interests in securitizations; accordingly, we generally classify them
in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.   
 
    Private equity investments       Our other business includes holdings of nonpublic private equity investment through funds managed by third party investment managers. We value private equity investments initially based upon the
transaction price, which we subsequently adjust to reflect expected exit values as evidenced by financing and sale transactions with third parties or through ongoing reviews by the investment managers. Nonpublic private equity investments are
included in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.      Private equity investments also include publicly held equity investments, generally obtained
through the initial public offering of privately held equity investments. These equity investments are often held in a partnership structure. Publicly held investments are marked to market at the quoted public value less adjustments for regulatory
or contractual sales restrictions or adjustments to reflect the difficulty in selling a partnership interest.      Discounts for restrictions are
quantified by analyzing the length of the restriction period and the volatility of the equity security. Publicly held investments are primarily classified in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.   
  The following tables present the financial instruments carried at fair value at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, by caption on the consolidated balance sheet and
by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described above). We have included credit ratings information in certain of the tables because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings
classifications could result in increased risk for us. There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2010.   

BNY
Mellon     143   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash
collateral.      

(b)   
   Includes seed capital and certain interests in securitizations.      

(c)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      

(d)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets and certain interests in securitizations.      

(e)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital and derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      

(f)   
   Includes the fair value adjustment for certain unfunded lending-related commitments and derivatives in designated hedging relationships and support agreements.

(g)   
   Netting cannot be disaggregated by product.      
      
  144     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   At Dec. 31, 2010, the German foreign covered bonds were considered Level 1 in the valuation hierarchy. All other assets in the table above are considered Level 2
assets in the valuation hierarchy.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      
         BNY
Mellon     145   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash
collateral.      

(b)   
   Includes seed capital and certain interests in securitizations.      

(c)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets and certain interests in securitizations.      

(d)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital and derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      

(e)   
   Includes the fair value adjustment for certain unfunded lending-related commitments and derivatives in designated hedging relationships and support agreements.

Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements       The tables below include a roll forward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009 (including the change in fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the
valuation hierarchy.      Our classification of a financial instrument in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is based on the significance of the
unobservable factors to the overall fair value measurement. However, these instruments generally include other observable components that are actively quoted or validated to third party sources;

accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due to observable parameters as well as the unobservable parameters in our valuation methodologies. We also
frequently manage the risks of Level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivatives positions that are Level 1 or 2 instruments which are not included in the table; accordingly, the gains or losses below do not reflect the effect of our
risk management activities related to the Level 3 instruments.      In accordance with ASC 820, BNY Mellon adjusts the discount rate on securities
to reflect what they would sell for in an orderly market (model price) and   

146     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

compares the model prices to prices provided by pricing sources. If the difference between the model price and the prices provided by pricing sources is outside of established thresholds, the
securities are included in Level 3. In 2009, BNY Mellon transferred

securities from Level 3 to Level 2 because the price of the securities provided by the pricing sources converged with the model price of the securities determined by BNY Mellon.

(a)   
   Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for
the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(c)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue, except for derivatives in designated hedging relationships which are recorded in interest revenue and
interest expense.      
         BNY
Mellon     147   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis    
  Under certain circumstances, we make adjustments to fair value our assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments although they are not
measured at fair value on an ongoing basis. An example would be the recording of an impairment of an asset.

The following table presents the financial instruments carried on the consolidated balance sheet by caption
and by level in the fair value hierarchy as of Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the years ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.

(a)   
   During the years ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of these loans was reduced $15 million and $18 million, based on the fair value of the
underlying collateral as allowed by ASC 310, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a loan, with an offset to the allowance for credit losses.      

(b)   
   Other assets received in satisfaction of debt. The fair value of these assets was reduced by $1 million in 2010 and less than $1 million in 2009, based on
the fair value of the underlying collateral with an offset in other revenue.      

Note 24 Fair value option       ASC 825 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments not previously
carried at fair value.      On Jan. 1, 2010, we adopted SFAS No. 167,  Amendments to FASB interpretation No. 46(R)  (Topic
810), issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ). In accordance with the guidance included in ASC 810, we consolidated assets of consolidated asset management funds. The following table presents the assets and liabilities,
by type, of consolidated asset management funds. We recorded these assets and liabilities at fair value and they are classified as trading assets and liabilities.

Assets and liabilities of consolidated
asset management funds, at fair value       (in millions)    
      
  Dec. 31,  

2010   

2009  

Assets of consolidated asset  
  management funds:   

Trading assets   
      
   $   
   14,121   

$  
  -  

Other assets   

645   

-  

Total assets of consolidated asset management funds   
      
   $   
   14,766   

$  
  -  

Liabilities of consolidated asset  
  management funds:   

Trading liabilities   
      
   $   
   13,561   

$  
  -  

Other liabilities   

2   

-  

Total liabilities of consolidated asset management funds   
      
   $   
   13,563   

$  
  -  

Noncontrolling interests of consolidated asset management funds   
      
   $   
   699   

$  
  -  
        
  BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market. The returns to the note holders are
solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets. Accordingly, mark-to-market best reflects the limited interest BNY Mellon has in the economic performance of the consolidated CLOs. Changes in the values of assets and
liabilities are reflected in the income statement as investment income of consolidated asset management funds.   

148     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

We have elected the fair value option on $240 million of long-term debt in connection with ASC 810. At
Dec. 31, 2010, the fair value of this long-term debt was $269 million. We have also elected the fair value option on approximately $118 million of unfunded lending related commitments. The following table presents the changes in fair value
of these unfunded lending related commitments and long-term debt included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in the consolidated income statement for the years ended Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.   

(a)   
   The change in fair value of the long-term debt is approximately offset by an economic hedge included in trading.      
  The long-term debt is valued using observable market inputs and is included in Level 2 of the ASC 820 hierarchy. Unfunded loan commitments are valued
using quotes from dealers in the loan markets, and are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy. The fair market value of unfunded lending-related commitments for which the fair value option was elected was a liability of less than
$1 million at Dec. 31, 2010 and Dec. 31, 2009 and is included in other liabilities.   

      Note 25 Commitments and contingent liabilities    
  In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding which are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.      Our significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest rate risk management
products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, securities lending indemnifications and support agreements. We assume these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the ability to meet credit
and liquidity needs, to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks and to trade for our own account. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange and interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet. Our off-balance
sheet risks are managed and monitored in manners similar

to those used for on-balance sheet risks. Significant industry concentrations related to credit exposure at Dec. 31, 2010, are disclosed in the Financial institutions portfolio exposure table and
the Commercial portfolio exposure table below.       
     
    Major concentrations in securities lending are primarily to broker-dealers and are generally collateralized with cash. Securities lending transactions are discussed below.   
  A summary of our off-balance sheet credit risks, net of participations, at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009 follows:   

Included in lending commitments are facilities that provide liquidity for variable rate tax-exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit
approval for these facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax-exempt issuer and considers factors other than the financial strength of the monoline insurer.

BNY
Mellon     149   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The total potential loss on undrawn lending commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and
securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral.   
  Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
A summary of lending commitment maturities is as follows: $10.5 billion less than one year; $18.3 billion in one to five years and $0.3 billion over five years.      Standby letters of credit ( SBLC ) principally support corporate obligations. As shown in the off-balance sheet credit risks table, the maximum potential exposure of SBLCs was $8.5 billion
at Dec. 31, 2010, and $11.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2009, and includes $628 million and $1.0 billion that were collateralized with cash and securities at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At Dec. 31, 2010, approximately
$6.1 billion of the SBLCs will expire within one year and the remaining $2.4 billion will expire within one to five years.      We must
recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit and foreign and other guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. As required by ASC 460    Guarantees , the fair value of the
liability, which was recorded with a corresponding asset in other assets, was estimated as the present value of contractual customer fees.   
  The estimated liability for losses related to these commitments and SBLCs, if any, is included in the allowance for unfunded commitments. The allowance
for unfunded commitments was $73 million at Dec. 31, 2010, and $125 million at Dec. 31, 2009.      Payment/performance risk of
SBLCs is monitored using both historical performance and internal ratings criteria. BNY Mellon s historical experience is that SBLCs typically expire without being funded. SBLCs below investment grade are monitored closely for
payment/performance risk. The table below shows SBLCs by investment grade:       

A commercial letter of credit is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for
the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer. Although the commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction. As a result,
the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commercial letters of credit totaled $512 million at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $789 million at Dec. 31, 2009.   
  A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security (typically through an
agent, in our case, The Bank of New York Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker-dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which normally matures in less than 90 days.   
  We typically lend securities with indemnification against broker default. We generally require the borrower to provide 102% cash collateral, which is
monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk. Market risk can also arise in securities lending transactions. These risks are controlled through policies limiting the level of risk that can be undertaken. Securities lending transactions are
generally entered into only with highly rated counterparties. Securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $285 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and $254 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. We recorded $150 million of fee revenue
from securities lending transactions in 2010 compared with $259 million in 2009.      We expect many of these guarantees to expire without
the need to advance any cash. The revenue associated with guarantees frequently depends on the credit rating of the obligor and the structure of the transaction, including collateral, if any.      Our potential exposure to support agreements was approximately $116 million at Dec. 31, 2010, compared with $86 million at Dec. 31, 2009. Potential support agreement exposure is determined based
on the securities subject to these agreements being valued at zero and the NAV of the related funds declining below established thresholds. This exposure includes agreements covering Lehman securities, as well as other client support agreements.

150     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Trust and transfer agent activities       BNY Mellon maintains several escrow accounts in which deposits are received from clients in connection with corporate trust and dividend and interest payment services. Since BNY Mellon acts only as a
transfer and trust agent for these funds, neither the assets nor the corresponding liability are included in these financial statements. In connection with the performance of these services, BNY Mellon invests such funds in interest-earning
investments solely in an agency capacity. The interest earned is recognized in the financial statements as interest income. Customer balances maintained in an agency capacity and not reflected on BNY Mellon s balance sheets totaled
approximately $275 million at Dec. 31, 2010, and $1.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2009. In addition, as a result of the GIS acquisition, our clients maintain approximately $6.8 billion of custody cash on deposit with other institutions.
Revenue generated from these balances is included in other revenue on the income statement. These deposits are expected to transition to BNY Mellon by the end of 2011.       Operating leases       Net rent expense for premises and equipment was $314 million in
2010, $327 million in 2009 and $362 million in 2008.      At Dec. 31, 2010, we were obligated under various noncancelable lease
agreements, some of which provide for additional rents based upon real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance and for various renewal options. A summary of the future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, net of related
sublease revenue, is as follows: 2011 $311 million; 2012 $284 million; 2013 $266 million; 2014 $225 million; and 2015 $202 million; and 2016 through 2030 $937 million.   
   Other       We have provided standard
representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing
financial services. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of these risks. We are a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges through which foreign exchange, securities or other
transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing

or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other partners do not honor their obligations. It is not
possible to estimate a maximum potential amount of payments that could be required with such agreements.       Legal proceedings    
  In the ordinary course of business, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are routinely named as defendants in or made parties to pending and potential legal
actions and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are often asserted in many of these legal actions, while claims for disgorgement, penalties and/or other remedial sanctions may be sought in regulatory matters. It is inherently
difficult to predict the eventual outcomes of such matters given their complexity and the particular facts and circumstances at issue in each of these matters. However, on the basis of our current knowledge and understanding, we do not believe that
judgments or settlements, if any, arising from these matters (either individually or in the aggregate, after giving effect to applicable reserves and insurance coverage), will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or
liquidity of BNY Mellon, although they could have a material effect on net income in a given period.      In view of the inherent unpredictability
of outcomes in litigation and regulatory matters, particularly where (i) the damages sought are substantial or indeterminate, (ii) the proceedings are in the early stages, or (iii) the matters involve novel legal theories or a large
number of parties, as a matter of course there is considerable uncertainty surrounding the timing or ultimate resolution of litigation and regulatory matters, including a possible eventual loss, fine, penalty or business impact, if any, associated
with each such matter. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, BNY Mellon establishes reserves for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters proceed to a stage where they present loss contingencies that are both probable and
reasonably estimable. In such cases, there may be a possible exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. BNY Mellon will continue to monitor such matters for developments that could affect the amount of the reserve, and will adjust the
reserve amount as appropriate. If the loss contingency in question is not both probable and reasonably estimable, BNY Mellon does not establish a reserve and the matter will continue to be monitored for any developments that would make the loss
contingency both probable and   

BNY
Mellon     151   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

reasonably estimable. BNY Mellon believes that its accruals for legal proceedings are appropriate and, in the aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial position of BNY Mellon,
although future accruals could have a material effect on net income in a given period.      For certain of those matters described herein for
which a loss contingency may, in the future, be reasonably possible (whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability), BNY Mellon is currently unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss. For those
matters where BNY Mellon is able to estimate a reasonably possible loss, exclusive of those matters described herein that are subject to the accounting and reporting requirements of ASC 740 (FASB Interpretation 48)(FIN48), the aggregate range of
such reasonably possible loss is between $200 million to $500 million in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters.      The following describes certain judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings involving BNY Mellon:       Sentinel Matters       As previously disclosed, on Jan. 18, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon
filed a proof of claim in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ) pending in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois, seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to
Sentinel and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at The Bank of New York Mellon. On March 3, 2008, the bankruptcy Trustee filed an adversary complaint against The Bank of New York Mellon seeking to disallow The
Bank of New York Mellon s claim and seeking damages for allegedly aiding and abetting Sentinel insiders in misappropriating customer assets and improperly using those assets as collateral for the loan. In a decision dated Nov. 3, 2010, the
court found for The Bank of New York Mellon and against the Trustee, holding that The Bank of New York Mellon s loan to Sentinel is valid, fully secured, and not subject to equitable subordination. The bankruptcy Trustee appealed this decision
on Dec. 1, 2010.      As previously disclosed, in November 2009, the Division of Enforcement of the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission
( CFTC ) indicated that it is considering a recommendation to the CFTC that it file a civil enforcement action against The Bank of New York Mellon for possible violations of the

Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations in connection with its relationship to Sentinel. The Bank of New York Mellon responded in writing to the CFTC on Jan. 29, 2010 and provided an
explanation as to why an enforcement action is unwarranted.       Auction Rate Securities Matters    
  As previously disclosed, in April 2008, BNY Mellon notified the SEC that Mellon Financial Markets LLC ( MFM ) placed orders on behalf of certain
issuers to purchase their own Auction Rate Securities ( ARS ). The Texas State Securities Board, Florida Office of Financial Regulation and the New York State Attorney General began investigating this matter in approximately October 2008
and are focused on whether and to what extent the issuers  orders had the effect of reducing the clearing rate and preventing failed auctions. These investigations, with which MFM is fully cooperating, are ongoing.   
  As previously disclosed, in February and April 2009, two institutional customers filed lawsuits in Texas state District Court for Dallas County, and
California state Superior Court for Orange County. A third institutional customer filed an arbitration proceeding in December 2008, alleging misrepresentations and omissions in the sale of ARS. Together, these three customers seek rescission of
approximately $68 million of ARS, damages of approximately $20 million, and interest and attorneys  fees.       Agency Cross
Trading Matter       As previously disclosed, on July 22, 2008, BNY Mellon notified FINRA and the SEC that employees of BNY Mellon
Securities LLC, a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Company, which executed orders to purchase and sell securities on behalf of Mellon Investor Services LLC, failed to comply with certain best execution and regulatory requirements in connection with
agency cross trades. On Jan. 14, 2011, the SEC announced the settlement of its subsequent action against BNY Mellon Securities LLC, finding that it had failed to supervise traders on its equity desk, censuring BNY Mellon Securities LLC and imposing
monetary sanctions totaling $24 million.       Securities Lending Matters       As previously disclosed, BNY Mellon or its affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits initiated by participants in BNY Mellon s securities lending program, which is a part of
BNY Mellon s Asset Servicing business. The lawsuits were filed on various dates from December 2008 to 2011,

152     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

and are currently pending in courts in Oklahoma, New York, Washington, California and South Carolina and in commercial court in London. The complaints assert contractual, statutory, and common
law claims, including claims for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. The plaintiffs allege losses in connection with the investment of securities lending collateral, including losses related to investments in Sigma Finance Inc., Lehman Brothers
Holdings, Inc. and certain asset-backed securities, and seek damages as to those losses. Two of the pending cases seek to proceed as class actions.       Matters Relating To Bernard L. Madoff       As previously disclosed, on May 11, 2010, the
New York State Attorney General commenced a civil lawsuit against Ivy Asset Management LLC ( Ivy ), a subsidiary of BNY Mellon that manages primarily funds-of-hedge-funds, and two of its former officers in New York state court. The lawsuit
alleges that Ivy, in connection with its role as sub-advisor to investment managers whose clients invested with Madoff, did not disclose certain material facts about Madoff. The complaint seeks an accounting of compensation received from January
1997 to the present by the Ivy defendants in connection with the Madoff investments, and unspecified damages, including restitution, disgorgement, costs and attorneys  fees.      As previously disclosed, on Oct. 21, 2010, the U.S. Department of Labor commenced a civil lawsuit against Ivy, two of its former officers, and others in federal court in the Southern District of New York.
The lawsuit alleges that Ivy violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) by failing to disclose certain material facts about Madoff to investment managers subadvised by Ivy whose clients included employee benefit plan
investors. The complaint seeks disgorgement and damages. On Dec. 8, 2010, the Trustee overseeing the Madoff liquidation sued many of the same defendants in bankruptcy court in New York, seeking to avoid withdrawals from Madoff investments made by
various funds-of-funds (including six funds-of-funds managed by Ivy).      As previously disclosed, Ivy or its affiliates have been named in a
number of civil lawsuits filed beginning Jan. 27, 2009 relating to certain investment funds that allege losses due to the Madoff investments. Ivy acted as a sub-advisor to the investment managers of some of those funds. Plaintiffs assert various
causes of action including securities and common-law fraud. Certain of the cases seek to proceed as class actions

and/or to assert derivative claims on behalf of the funds. Most of the cases have been consolidated in two actions in federal court in the Southern District of New York, with certain cases filed
in New York state Supreme Court for New York and Nassau counties.       Medical Capital Litigations    
  As previously disclosed, The Bank of New York Mellon has been named as a defendant in a number of putative class actions and non-class actions brought by
numerous plaintiffs in connection with its role as indenture trustee for debt issued by affiliates of Medical Capital Corporation. The actions, filed in late 2009 and currently pending in federal court in the Central District of California, allege
that The Bank of New York Mellon breached its fiduciary and contractual obligations to the holders of the underlying securities, and seek unspecified damages.       Foreign Exchange Matters       As previously disclosed, beginning in December 2009, certain
governmental authorities have requested information or served subpoenas on BNY Mellon seeking information relating to foreign exchange transactions in connection with custody services BNY Mellon provides to certain clients, including certain
governmental entities and public pension plans. BNY Mellon is cooperating with these inquiries. In January 2011, the Virginia Attorney General filed a Notice of Intervention in a lawsuit filed in Virginia Circuit Court, Fairfax County by a private
party under the Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act. The plaintiff in that action alleges that BNY Mellon improperly charged and reported prices for foreign exchange transactions in connection with custody services BNY Mellon provides to certain
Virginia pension funds. In February 2011, the Florida Attorney General filed a Notice of Intervention in a lawsuit filed in Florida Circuit Court, Leon County by a private party under the Florida False Claims Act. The plaintiff in that action
alleges that BNY Mellon improperly charged and reported prices for foreign exchange transactions in connection with custody services BNY Mellon provides to a Florida pension fund.       German Broker-Dealer Litigation       As previously disclosed, on various dates from 2004 to
2011, BNY Mellon subsidiary Pershing LLC ( Pershing ) was named as a defendant in more than 100 lawsuits filed in Germany by plaintiffs who are investors with accounts at German broker-dealers. The plaintiffs allege that Pershing, which
had a contractual relationship with the broker-dealers through which the broker-dealers executed options   

BNY
Mellon     153   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

transactions on behalf of the broker-dealers  clients, should be held liable for the tortious acts of the broker-dealers. Plaintiffs seek to recover their investment losses, interest, and
statutory attorney s fees and costs. On March 9, 2010, the German Federal Supreme Court ruled in the plaintiff s favor in one of these cases, and held Pershing liable for a German broker-dealer s tortious acts. On July 19,
2010, Pershing appealed that decision to the German Constitutional Court. In another similar case, in December 2010, the Federal Supreme Court denied Pershing s appeals, and ruled in favor of 12 plaintiffs, in conformance with its March 2010
decision. On Jan. 25, 2011, the Federal Supreme Court ruled in the plaintiffs  favor in four other similar cases, and remanded an additional four cases to the appellate court for further findings.   
   Lyondell Litigation       As previously
disclosed, in an action filed in New York state Supreme Court for New York County, on Sept. 14, 2010, plaintiffs as holders of debt issued by Basell AF in 2005 allege that The Bank of New York Mellon, as indenture trustee, breached its contractual
and fiduciary obligations by executing an intercreditor agreement in 2007 in connection with Basell s acquisition of Lyondell Chemical Company. Plaintiffs are seeking damages for their alleged losses resulting from the execution of the 2007
intercreditor agreement that allowed the company to increase the amount of its senior debt.       Withholding Tax Matters    
  As previously disclosed, in 2007, in connection with its obligation to file information and withholding tax returns with the IRS for its various
businesses, BNY Mellon became aware of certain inconsistencies in supporting documentation and records for certain of BNY Mellon s businesses, and initiated an extensive company-wide review. We notified the IRS of the inconsistencies and
continue to cooperate with the IRS in its review of this matter.       Tax Litigation    
  As previously disclosed, in Aug. 17, 2009, BNY Mellon received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency disallowing tax benefits for the 2001 and 2002 tax years
in connection with a 2001 transaction that involved the payment of U.K. corporate income taxes that were credited against BNY Mellon s U.S. corporate income tax liability. On Nov. 10, 2009, BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court
contesting the disallowance of the benefits. A trial is currently scheduled for Dec. 5, 2011. The aggregate

tax benefit for all six years in question is approximately $900 million, including interest. In the event BNY Mellon is unsuccessful in defending its position, the IRS has agreed not to
assess underpayment penalties.   

      Note 26 Derivative instruments       We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, to generate profits from proprietary trading and to assist customers with their risk
management objectives.      The notional amounts for derivative financial instruments express the dollar volume of the transactions; however,
credit risk is much smaller. We perform credit reviews and enter into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of foreign currency and interest rate risk management products. We enter into offsetting positions to reduce exposure to foreign
exchange and interest rate risk.      Use of derivative financial instruments involves reliance on counterparties. Failure of a counterparty to
honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk we assume whenever we engage in a derivative contract. In 2010 and 2009, counterparty default losses on both trading and hedging derivatives were $39 million and $4 million,
respectively. Reserves for losses incurred in 2010 were established in prior years. As a result, these counterparty default losses did not impact income in 2010.       Hedging derivatives       We utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to
interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of investment securities held for sale, deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and the interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a
fixed-rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting
fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR.      The securities hedged consist of sovereign debt, U.S. Treasury bonds and asset-backed securities, and
generally had weighted average lives of 10 years or less at initial purchase. The asset-backed securities are callable six months prior to maturity. The swaps on

154     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

the asset-backed securities are callable six months prior to maturity. The swaps on the sovereign debt and U.S. Treasury bonds are not callable. All of these securities are hedged with  pay
fixed rate, receive variable rate  swaps of the same maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. At Dec. 31, 2010, $2.2 billion of securities were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $2.2 billion.   
  The fixed rate deposits hedged generally have original maturities of 5 to 11 years and are not callable. These deposits are hedged with receive fixed
rate, pay variable rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable. At Dec. 31, 2010, $25 million of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $25 million.
     The fixed rate long-term debt hedged generally have original maturities of 5 to 30 years. We issue both callable and non-callable debt. The
non-callable debt is hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At Dec. 31, 2010,
$11.8 billion of debt was hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $11.8 billion.      In addition, we enter into
foreign exchange hedges. We use forward foreign exchange contracts with maturities of 12 months or less to hedge our Sterling, Euro and Indian Rupee foreign exchange exposure with respect to foreign currency forecasted revenue transactions in
entities that have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the hedged forecasted foreign currency transactions and designated forward foreign exchange contract hedges were $270 million (notional), with less than
$1 million of pre-tax losses recorded in other comprehensive income. These losses will be reclassified to income or expense over the next twelve months.      We use forward foreign exchange contracts with remaining maturities of ten months or less as hedges against our exposure to Euro, Australian Dollar, Norwegian Krona, and Hong Kong Dollar foreign exchange
exposure with respect to interest-bearing deposits with banks and their associated forecasted interest revenue. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges. These hedges are effected such that their

maturities and notional values match those of the deposits with banks. As of Dec. 31, 2010, the hedged placements and their designated forward foreign exchange contract hedges were
$6.8 billion (notional), with less than $1 million of pre-tax gain recorded in other comprehensive income. This gain will be reclassified to net interest revenue and other income over the next ten months.   
  Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward foreign exchange
contracts usually have maturities of less than two years. The derivatives employed are designated as hedges of changes in value of our foreign investments due to exchange rates. Changes in the value of the forward foreign exchange contracts offset
the changes in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value of these forward foreign exchange contracts is deferred and reported within accumulated translation adjustments in
shareholders  equity, net of tax. At Dec. 31, 2010, forward foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $4.8 billion, were designated as hedges.      In addition to forward foreign exchange contracts, we also designate non-derivative financial instruments as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Those non-derivative financial
instruments designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries were all long-term liabilities of BNY Mellon in various currencies, and, at Dec. 31, 2010, had a combined U.S. dollar equivalent value of $853 million.   
  Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as follows:   

(a)   
   Includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.

BNY
Mellon     155   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The following table summarizes the notional amount and credit exposure of our total derivative portfolio
at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2009.       

(b)   
   The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives designated as hedging instruments is recorded as other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on
the balance sheet.      

(c)   
   The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives not designated as hedging instruments is recorded as trading assets and trading liabilities,
respectively, on the balance sheet.      

(d)   
   Fair values are on a gross basis, before consideration of master netting agreements, as required by ASC 815.      
    
   At Dec. 31, 2010 approximately $ 399 billion (notional) of interest rate contracts will mature within
one year, $ 442 billion between one and five years, and $ 264 billon after five years. At Dec. 31, 2010,

approximately $ 313 billion (notional) of foreign exchange contracts will mature within one year, $ 7 billion between one and five years, and $ 7 billion after five years.

Impact of derivative instruments on the income statement   

(in millions)   

Derivatives in fair value hedging  
  relationships   
     
    Location of gain
(loss) recognized in income on     derivatives   
     
    Amount of gain (loss) recognized in income
on derivatives     Year ended Dec. 31,   

Location of gain
(loss) recognized in income on     hedged item   
     
  Amount of gain (loss) recognized in hedged item Year ended Dec. 31,  

2010   

2009  

2010   

2009  

Interest rate contracts   
     
  Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   370   

$  
  (406  
  )   
     
  Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   (366   
   )    
      
  $  
  408  

Derivatives in cash flow  
  hedging relationships   
     
    Amount of  
  gain or (loss) recognized in OCI on
derivative (effective portion) Year ended Dec. 31,   

Location of gain
or (loss) reclassified from accumulated OCI into income (effective portion)  

Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified from accumulated OCI
into income (effective portion) Year ended Dec. 31,  

Location of gain
or (loss) recognized in income on derivatives (ineffective portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)  

Amount of gain or
(loss) recognized in income on derivatives (ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing) Year ended Dec. 31,  

2010   

2009  

2010   

2009  

2010   

2009  

Interest rate contracts   
     
   $   
   -   

$  
  -  

Net interest revenue  

$   
   -   

$  
  26  

Net interest revenue  

$   
   -   

$  
  -  

FX contracts   

(7   
   )    

-  

Net interest revenue  

(6   
   )    

-  

Net interest revenue  

-   

-  

FX contracts   

(134   
   )    

(1  
  )   

Other revenue  

(135   
   )    

6  

Other revenue  

-   

-  

FX contracts   

(1   
   )    

-  

Salary expense  

(1   
   )    

-  

Salary expense  

-   

-  

Total   
     
   $   
   (142   
   )    
      
  $  
  (1  
  )   

$   
   (142   
   )    
      
  $  
  32  

$   
   -   

$  
  -  

156     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Derivatives in net  
  investment hedging relationships   
     
  Amount of gain (loss) recognized in OCI on
derivatives (effective portion) Year ended Dec. 31,  

Location of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated OCI into
income (effective portion)  
     
  Amount of gain (loss) reclassified from accumulated OCI into
income (effective portion) Year ended Dec. 31,  

Location of gain (loss) recognized in income 
on derivative (ineffective portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)  
     
  Amount of gain (loss) Recognized in income 
on derivatives (Ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing) Year ended Dec. 31,  

2010   

2009  

2010   

2009  

2010   

2009  

FX contracts   
     
   $   
   (52   
   )    
      
  $  
  (298  
  )   
     
  Net interest revenue  
     
   $   
   -   

$  
  -  

Other revenue  
     
   $   
   (0.2   
   )    
      
  $  
  0.1  

Trading activities (including trading derivatives)    
  Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers. The risk from these market-making activities and from our own positions
is managed by our traders and limited in total exposure as described below.      We manage trading risk through a system of position limits, a VAR
methodology based on Monte Carlo simulations, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures. Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a separate unit on a daily basis. Based on certain assumptions, the VAR
methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse changes in fair values of all trading positions. The calculation assumes a one-day holding period for most instruments, utilizes a 99% confidence level, and
incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options. The VAR model is one of several statistical models used to develop economic capital results, which is allocated to lines of business for computing risk-adjusted performance.   
  As the VAR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk assessment process
includes a number of stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions. Additional stress scenarios based upon historic market events are also performed. Stress tests, by their
design, incorporate the impact of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations. The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.

Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading revenue included the following:   

(a)   
   Used as economic hedges of loans.      
  Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign currencies and currency forwards, futures, and options. Fixed income reflects
results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, options and fixed income securities. Credit derivatives include revenue from credit default swaps. Other primarily includes income from equity securities and
equity derivatives.       Counterparty credit risk and collateral       We assess credit risk of our counterparties through regular periodic examination of their financial statements, confidential communication with the management of those counterparties and regular
monitoring of publicly available credit rating information. This and other information is used to develop proprietary credit rating metrics used to assess credit quality.      Collateral requirements are determined after a comprehensive review of the credit quality of each counterparty. Collateral is generally held or pledged in the form of cash or highly liquid government
securities. Collateral requirements are monitored and adjusted daily.      Additional disclosures concerning derivative financial instruments are
provided in Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

BNY
Mellon     157   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Disclosure of contingent features in over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative instruments
      Certain of the BNY Mellon s OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral agreements contain provisions that may require us to take
certain actions if its public debt rating fell to a certain level. Early termination provisions, or  close-out  agreements in those contracts could trigger immediate payment of outstanding contracts that are in net liability positions.
Certain collateral agreements would require us to immediately post additional collateral to cover some or all of BNY Mellon s liabilities to a counterparty.      The following table shows the fair value of contracts falling under early termination provisions that were in net liability positions as of Dec. 31, 2010 for three key ratings triggers:   

(a)   
   The change between rating categories is incremental, not cumulative.         Additionally, if BNY Mellon s debt rating had fallen below investment grade on Dec. 31, 2010, existing collateral arrangements would have required us to have posted an additional $971 million of
collateral.   

Note 27 Review of businesses       We have an internal information system that produces performance data for our seven businesses along product and service lines. The following discussion of our businesses satisfies the disclosure
requirements for ASC 280,  Segment Reporting .       Business accounting principles    
  Our business data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for
consolidated financial reporting. These measurement principles are designed so that reported results of the businesses will track their economic performance.      Business results are subject to reclassification whenever improvements are made in the measurement principles or when organizational changes are made.   
  The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The operations of acquired businesses are integrated with the existing businesses soon after they are completed. As a result of the integration of staff
support functions, management of customer relationships, operating processes and the financial impact of funding acquisitions, we cannot precisely determine the impact of acquisitions on income before taxes and therefore do not report it.
     Information on our businesses is reported on a continuing operations basis for all periods presented. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.   

158     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   We provide data for seven businesses, with certain businesses combined into groups as shown below:

Group of businesses/Business   
      
   Primary types of revenue    
 
    Asset and Wealth Management Group    
 
        Asset Management
business   

Asset and wealth management fees from:     Mutual funds     Institutional clients  
  Private clients     Performance fees              Distribution and servicing fees    
 
        Wealth
Management business   
      
             Wealth management fees from high-net-worth individuals and families, endowments and foundations and related
entities.    
 
    Institutional Services Group    

Asset Servicing business   

Asset servicing fees, including:  
  Institutional trust and custody fees  
  Broker-dealer services  
  Securities lending  
           Foreign exchange    

Issuer Services business   

Issuer services fees, including:  
  Corporate trust     Depositary receipts     Employee investment plan
services     Shareowner services    

Clearing Services business   

Clearing services fees, including:  
  Broker-dealer services  
  Registered investment advisor services    
 
        Treasury
Services business   

Treasury services fees, including:  
  Global payment services  
  Working capital solutions  
           Financing-related fees    
 
    Other
Businesses   

Leasing operations              Corporate treasury activities  
           Global markets and institutional banking services              Business exits     
    
   The results of our businesses are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis:

Revenue amounts reflect fee and other revenue generated by each business. Fee and other revenue transferred between businesses under revenue transfer
agreements is included within other revenue in each business.      

Revenues and expenses associated with specific client bases are included in those businesses. For example, foreign exchange activity associated with
clients using custody products is allocated to the Asset Servicing business.      

Net interest revenue is allocated to businesses based on the yields on the assets and liabilities

generated by each business. We employ a funds transfer pricing system that matches funds with the specific assets and liabilities of each business based on their interest sensitivity and maturity
characteristics.      

Support and other indirect expenses are allocated to businesses based on internally-developed methodologies.      

Recurring FDIC expense is allocated to the businesses based on average deposits generated within each business.      

Special litigation reserves is a corporate level item and is therefore recorded in the Other businesses.

BNY
Mellon     159   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other businesses. As a result, gains and losses associated with
the valuation of the securities portfolio are included in the Other businesses.      

Client deposits serve as the primary funding source for our investment securities portfolio. We typically allocate all interest revenue to the
businesses generating the deposits. Accordingly, the higher yield related to the restructured investment securities portfolio has been included in the results of the businesses.      

Support agreement charges are recorded in the business in which the charges occurred.      

The restructuring charges recorded in 2010, 2009 and 2008 resulted from corporate initiatives and therefore were recorded in the Other businesses.

Balance sheet assets and liabilities and their related income or expense are specifically assigned to each business. Businesses with a net liability
position have been allocated assets.      

Goodwill and intangible assets are reflected within individual businesses.      

M I expenses are corporate level items and are therefore recorded in the Other businesses.      
  Total revenue includes approximately $2.1 billion in 2010, $1.6 billion in 2009 and $2.0 billion in 2008, of international operations
domiciled in the U.K. which is 15%, 21% and 14% of total revenue, respectively.   

The following consolidating schedules
show the contribution of our businesses to our overall profitability.       

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue and income before taxes for 2010 includes income from consolidated asset management funds of $226 million net of income attributable
to noncontrolling interests of $59 million. The net of these income statement line items of $167 million is included above in fee and other revenue.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

160     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

Note 28 International operations       International activity includes asset and wealth management and securities servicing fee revenue generating businesses, foreign exchange trading activity, loans and other revenue producing assets and
transactions in which the customer is domiciled outside of the United States and/or the international activity is resident at an international entity. Due to the nature of our international and domestic activities, it is not possible to precisely
distinguish between internationally and domestically domiciled customers. As a result, it is necessary to make certain subjective assumptions such as:

Income from continuing operations from international operations is determined after internal allocations for interest revenue, taxes, expenses, and
provision and allowance for credit losses.      

Expense charges to international operations include those directly incurred in connection with such activities, as well as an allocable share of
general support and overhead charges.      

BNY
Mellon     161   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   Total revenue, income before income taxes, income from continuing operations and total assets of our
international operations are shown in the table below.       

(a)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis.      

(b)   
   Total assets include long-lived assets, which are not considered by management to be significant in relation to total assets. Long-lived assets are primarily located
in the U.S.      

(d)   
   In 2009, excludes the $269 million of investment securities losses on the European floating rate notes.      

(e)   
   Domestic income from continuing operations in 2009 and 2008 was reduced by investment securities losses. Domestic income from continuing operations in 2008 was also
reduced by the SILO/LILO charge and support agreement charges.          

      Note 29 Supplemental information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
  Noncash investing and financing transactions that, appropriately, are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are listed below.

162     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

      Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
            The Board of Directors and Shareholders      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( BNY Mellon ) as
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of BNY Mellon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BNY Mellon as
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
     As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2010, BNY Mellon changed their methods of accounting related to the
consolidation of variable interest entities and, in 2009, changed their methods of accounting for other-than-temporary impairments.      We also
have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 28, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal
control over financial reporting.          /s/ KPMG LLP   
  New York, New York      February 28, 2011
  
         BNY
Mellon     163   

Table of Contents  

      Directors, Senior Management and Executive Officers    

Directors         Ruth E. Bruch       Retired Senior Vice President and   
  Chief Information Officer      Kellogg Company
     Cereal and convenience foods   
   Nicholas M. Donofrio       Retired Executive
Vice President, Innovation and Technology      IBM Corporation      Developer, manufacturer and provider of advanced information technologies and services       Gerald
L. Hassell       President      The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation       Edmund F. (Ted) Kelly       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      Liberty Mutual Group   
  Multi-line insurance company       Robert P.
Kelly       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation       Richard J. Kogan    
  Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      Schering-Plough Corporation      International research-based development and manufacturing
      Michael J. Kowalski    
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tiffany   Co.      International designer, manufacturer and distributor of jewelry and fine goods       John A. Luke,
Jr.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      MeadWestvaco Corporation      Manufacturer of paper, packaging and specialty chemicals   
   Robert Mehrabian       Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer      Teledyne Technologies, Inc.      Advanced industrial technologies

Mark A. Nordenberg       Chancellor and Chief Executive Officer      University of Pittsburgh   
  Major public research university       Catherine
A. Rein       Retired Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer      MetLife, Inc.      Insurance and financial services company   
   William C. Richardson       President and
Chief Executive Officer Emeritus      The W. K. Kellogg Foundation      Retired Chairman and Co-Trustee of The W. K. Kellogg Foundation Trust      Private foundation
      Samuel C. Scott III       Retired
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      Corn Products International, Inc.      Global producers of corn-refined products and ingredients       John P. Surma    
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer United States Steel Corporation      Steel manufacturing       Wesley W. von Schack    
  Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      Energy East Corporation      Energy services company   
    Senior Management         Robert P.
Kelly       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       Gerald L. Hassell       President

Executive Officers         Curtis Y. Arledge       Chief Executive Officer,   
  BNY Mellon Asset Management       Richard F.
Brueckner       Chairman,      Pershing
LLC       Arthur Certosimo       Chief
Executive Officer,      Alternative, Broker-Dealer Services and Treasury Services       Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons       Chief Financial Officer   
   Timothy F. Keaney       Chief Executive
Officer,      BNY Mellon Asset Servicing;   
  Chairman of EMEA       James P. Palermo
      Chief Executive Officer,      Global
Client Management       John A. Park       Controller       Karen B. Peetz       Chief Executive Officer,      Financial Markets and Treasury Services   
   Lisa B. Peters       Chief Human Resources
Officer       Brian G. Rogan    
  Chief Risk Officer       Brian T. Shea
      Chief Executive Officer,   
  Pershing LLC       Jane C. Sherburne
      General Counsel       Kurt D.
Woetzel       Head of Global Operations and      Technology and Chief Administrative Officer   

164     BNY Mellon   

Table of Contents  

Performance Graph    

This graph shows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s cumulative total shareholder returns over the five-year period from Dec. 31, 2005 to Dec. 31, 2010. The graph reflects total shareholder
returns for The Bank of New York Company, Inc. from Dec. 31, 2005 to June 29, 2007, and for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation from July 2, 2007 to Dec. 31, 2010. June 29, 2007 was the last day of trading on the NYSE of The Bank
of New York Company, Inc. common stock and July 2, 2007 was the first day of trading on the NYSE of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common stock. We are showing combined The Bank of New York Company, Inc. The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation shareholder returns because The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation does not have a five-year history as a public company. Our peer group is composed of asset managers and institutional service providers that represent our primary
competitors. We also utilize the S P 500 Financial Index as a benchmark against our performance. The graph also shows the cumulative total returns for the same five-year period of the S P 500 Index, the S P 500 Financial Index, as well
as our peer group listed below. The comparison assumes a $100 investment on Dec. 31, 2005 in The Bank of New York Company, Inc. common stock (which was converted on a 0.9434 for one basis into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common stock on
July 1, 2007), in the S P 500 Financial Index, in the S P 500 Index and in the peer group detailed below and assumes that all dividends were reinvested.       

Peer Group*   

American Express Company  
  Bank of America Corporation  
  BlackRock, Inc.     The Charles Schwab Corporation   
      
    Citigroup Inc.     JPMorgan Chase   Co.     Northern Trust Corporation  
  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
      
  Prudential Financial, Inc.  
  State Street Corporation     U.S.
Bancorp     Wells Fargo   Company         

*  
  Returns are weighted by market capitalization at the beginning of the measurement period.     
         BNY
Mellon     165   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 7
 dex211.htm
 PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Primary subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES
       DEC. 31, 2010        

4101 Austin Boulevard Corp.   State of Incorporation: New York      

Agency Brokerage Holding, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Alcentra NY LLC   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Allomon Corporation   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Albridge Solutions, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Alternative Holding II, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

APT Holdings Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BB T AM Distributors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

B.N.Y. Holdings (Delaware) Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Aurora Holding Corp.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY Capital IV   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital V   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital VI   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital VII   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital VIII   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital IX   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital X   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Capital Funding, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Capital Resources Corp.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY ConvergEx Group LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY International Financing Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

BNY International Leasing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY ITC Leasing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Lease Equities (Cap Funding) LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Real Estate Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos Ltda.   Incorporation: Brazil      

BNY Mellon Asset Management (USA) LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Asset Management International Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Asset Management Japan Limited   Incorporation: Japan      

BNY Mellon Asset Servicing GmbH   Incorporation: Germany      

BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Capital Markets Holdings, Inc.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY Mellon (Cayman) Limited   Incorporation: Cayman Islands      

BNY Mellon Clearing, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Community Development Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Distributors Holdings Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Distributors Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

BNY Mellon Global Management Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon International Asset Management Group Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon International Bank Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon International Operations (India) Private Limited   Incorporation: India      

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
   PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES        DEC. 31, 2010        Continued    

BNY Mellon International Management Limited   Incorporation: Cayman Islands      

BNY Mellon Investment Servicing (International) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon Investment Servicing (US) Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

BNY Mellon Managed Investments Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Performance   Risk Analytics, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon (Poland) sp. z o.o.   Incorporation: Poland      

BNY Mellon Securities LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Servicos Financeiros Distribuidora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios S.A.   Incorporation: Brazil      

BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois   State of Incorporation: Illinois      

BNY Mellon Trust Company (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Mellon, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

Boston Safe Deposit Finance Company, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

Coates Analytics, LP   State of Organization: Pennsylvania      

Coates Holding LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Colson Services Corp.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

ConvergEx Holdings, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

DPM Mellon LLC   State of Organization: Nevada          

Dreyfus Service Organization, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Dreyfus Transfer Inc.   State of Incorporation: Maryland      

EACM Advisors LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Eagle Investment Systems LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Fairholme Distributors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

GIS Holdings (International) Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Global Investment Servicing (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l.   Incorporation: Luxembourg      

Hamilton Insurance Corp. (The)   State of Incorporation: New York      

HighMark Funds Distributors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Insight Investment Funds Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Insight Investment Management (Global) Limited   Incorporation: England      

Insight Investment Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Investor Analytics LLC   State of Organization: New York      

Ivy Asset Management LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Lockwood Advisors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBC Investments Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBSC Securities Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

MELDEL Leasing Corporation #2   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Canada Holding Company   Incorporation: Canada      

Mellon Capital III   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Capital IV   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Capital Management Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Financial Services Corporation #1   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon Funding Corporation   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Mellon Hedge Advisors LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon International Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Investor Services LLC   State of Organization: New Jersey      

Mellon Investor Services Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Life Insurance Company   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
   PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES        DEC. 31, 2010        Continued    

Mellon Overseas Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

Mellon Securities Investments LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Ventures III, LP   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Ventures IV, LP   State of Organization: Delaware      

MFS Leasing Corp.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MGI Funds Distributors, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MIPA, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware          

Neptune LLC   State of Organization: Delaware          

Newton Fund Managers (C.I.) Limited   Incorporation: Jersey      

One Wall Street Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Pershing Advisor Solutions LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing Group LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing Investment LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware          

Pershing Securities Limited LLC   Incorporation: England      

PFPC Trust Company   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Promontory Interfinancial Network, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Riverside Pension Plan Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

Standish Mellon Asset Management Company LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

TBC Securities Co., Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

TBCAM, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware          

The Bank of New York Mellon   Organized: New York      

The Bank of New York Mellon (Luxembourg) S.A.   Incorporation: Luxembourg      

The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited   Incorporation: England      

The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV   Incorporation: Belgium      

The Boston Company Asset Management LLC   State of Organization: Massachusetts      

The Dreyfus Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Urdang Capital Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Urdang Securities Management, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Pennsylvania      

Walter Scott   Partners Limited   Incorporation: Scotland      

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors
     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in:       
    of our reports dated February 28,
2011, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( BNY Mellon ) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity,
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, which reports appear in the December 31, 2010 Annual
Report on Form 10-K of BNY Mellon. The aforementioned report with respect to the consolidated financial statements of BNY Mellon refers to changes, in 2010, in BNY Mellon s methods of accounting related to the consolidation of variable interest
entities and, in 2009, changes to BNY Mellon s accounting for other-than-temporary impairments.      /s/ KPMG LLP   
  New York, New York      February 28, 2011

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 9
 dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1        POWER OF ATTORNEY       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   
  Know all men by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Jane C. Sherburne and Arlie R. Nogay, and each of
them, such person s true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and revocation, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports on
Form 10-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2010, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file same with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents and each of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      This power of
attorney shall be effective as of February 28, 2011 and shall continue in full force and effect until revoked by the undersigned in a writing filed with the secretary of the Corporation.   

/s/ Ruth E. Bruch   

/s/ Robert Mehrabian    
 
  Ruth E. Bruch, Director  

Robert Mehrabian, Director   

/s/ Nicholas M. Donofrio   

/s/ Mark A. Nordenberg    
 
  Nicholas M. Donofrio, Director  

Mark A. Nordenberg, Director   

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

/s/ Catherine A. Rein    
 
  Gerald L. Hassell, Director  

Catherine A. Rein, Director   

/s/ Edmund F. Kelly   

/s/ William C. Richardson    
 
  Edmund F. Kelly, Director  

William C. Richardson, Director   

/s/ Richard J. Kogan   

/s/ Samuel C. Scott III    
 
  Richard J. Kogan, Director  

Samuel C. Scott III, Director   

/s/ Michael J. Kowalski   

/s/ John P. Surma    
 
  Michael J. Kowalski, Director  

John P. Surma, Director   

/s/ John A. Luke, Jr.   

/s/ Wesley W. von Schack    
 
  John A. Luke, Jr., Director  

Wesley W. von Schack, Director    

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Robert P. Kelly, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2011       

/s/ Robert P. Kelly    
 
  Name:  
     
  Robert P. Kelly   
 
  Title:  
     
  Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Thomas P. Gibbons, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2011       

/s/ Thomas P. Gibbons    
 
  Name:  
     
  Thomas P. Gibbons   
 
  Title:  
     
  Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of BNY
Mellon.       

Dated: February 28, 2011  
     
    /s/ Robert P. Kelly    

Name:  
     
  Robert P. Kelly   

Title:  
     
  Chief Executive Officer       The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of BNY
Mellon.       

Dated: February 28, 2011  
     
    /s/ Thomas P. Gibbons    

Name:  
     
  Thomas P. Gibbons   

Title:  
     
  Chief Financial Officer       The foregoing certification is
being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 14
 bk-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 15
 bk-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 16
 bk-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 bk-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 18
 bk-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 19
 bk-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

