<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120228_10-K_edgar_data_1390777_0001193125-12-085349_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>46773491</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>720226</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11879650</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>11357378</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>15448621</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>6265781</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>249</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-085349.hdr.sgml : 20120228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120228163016
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-085349
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Bank of New York Mellon CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001390777
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS [6022]
		IRS NUMBER:				000000000
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-52710
		FILM NUMBER:		12647648

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-495-1784

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE WALL STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10286

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-085349.txt : 20120228

10-K
 1
 d260593d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011    
    or        
 
   Commission File No. 000-52710         
        THE BANK OF
NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Delaware   
     
   13-2614959    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
     One Wall Street        New York, New York 10286        (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip
Code)        Registrant s telephone number, including area code - (212) 495-1784    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, $0.01 par value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   6.875% Preferred Trust Securities, Series E of BNY Capital IV *   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   5.95% Preferred Trust Securities, Series F of BNY Capital V *   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities of Mellon Capital IV *   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
     * Fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
   None    
   (Title of Class)         
       Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.               Yes          No      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  
     
       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
  Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).         Yes         No      As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, held by nonaffiliates of the registrant was $31,482,706,020.   
  As of January 31, 2012, 1,204,793,331 shares of the registrant s voting common stock, $0.01 par value per share, were outstanding.   
         
   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference in the following parts of this Form 10-K:      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2012 Proxy Statement-Part III      The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders-Parts I, II and IV       

Available Information       This Form 10-K filed by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon  or the  Company ) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) contains the Exhibits
listed on the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 44, including those portions of BNY Mellon s 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders (the  Annual Report ), which are incorporated herein by reference. For a free copy of BNY
Mellon s Annual Report or BNY Mellon s Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting (the  Proxy ), as filed with the SEC, send a written request by email to corpsecretary@bnymellon.com or by mail to the Secretary of The Bank of
New York Mellon Corporation, One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286. BNY Mellon s Annual Report is, and the Proxy upon filing with the SEC will be, available on our website at www.bnymellon.com. We also make available, free of charge, on our
website BNY Mellon s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or
furnish them to, the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). The following materials are also available, free of charge, on our website at www.bnymellon.com
under  Investor Relations, Corporate Governance  and are also available free of charge in print by written request from the Secretary of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation at One Wall Street, New York, NY 10286, or
corpsecretary@bnymellon.com:       

BNY Mellon s Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all employees, including BNY Mellon s senior financial officers;

BNY Mellon s Directors  Code of Conduct, which is applicable to our directors;      

BNY Mellon s Corporate Governance Guidelines; and      

the Charters of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Human Resources and Compensation, Risk and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees
of the Board of Directors.         The contents of BNY Mellon s website or any other websites referenced herein are not part
of this Form 10-K.   
 
    Forward-looking Statements       This Form 10-K contains statements relating to future results of BNY Mellon that are considered  forward-looking statements.  These statements, which may be expressed in a variety of ways,
including the use of future or present tense language, relate to, among other things: all statements about the future results of BNY Mellon, projected business growth, statements with respect to the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory
and investigatory proceedings, and BNY Mellon s plans, objectives and strategies. In addition, these forward-looking statements relate to, among others: the effect of regulation of current financial markets on competition; our investments in
technology to remain competitive; the implementation and impact of pending and proposed legislation and regulation, including the Proposed SIFI Rules, the Volcker Rule, the Dodd-Frank Act, regulation relating to money market funds, regulations to be
promulgated by the CFPB, new SEC regulations under the  40 Act, DOL regulations under ERISA, the U.K. regulatory framework, new European Directives relating to the financial services sector, regulations of the tri-party repo market, Federal
Reserve regulation on credit exposure of a depository institution to a non-bank affiliate; the Federal Reserve and Financial Stability Boards  proposals on Basel II and Basel III; expectations with respect to the well-capitalized status of BNY
Mellon and its bank subsidiaries; the timing and ability to engage in share repurchases or pay dividends by us and our bank subsidiaries and our liquidity targets; the FDIC s rule regarding adjustments to the assessment base and the impact on
our business; statements regarding our resolution plans; the liability of our affiliates in certain circumstances; targeted capital ratios; statements regarding our internal capital generation and a strong balance sheet; the adequacy of our owned
and leased facilities; access to capital markets; the adequacy of our reserves; BNY Mellon s ability to deploy capital to accelerate long-term growth of its businesses, provide superior client service versus peers, achieve strong investment
performance relative to investment benchmarks and above-median growth relative to peers, increase the percentage of revenue and income derived from outside the United States, successfully integrate acquired businesses and maintain competitive
margins and positive operating leverage; the estimated effective tax rate applicable   

BNY Mellon 1

to BNY Mellon for 2012 and beyond; fair value estimates of business segments and any impairment of goodwill; statements regarding risks that we may face including those relating to: uncertainty
in financial markets and weakness in the economy; disruptions in European economies, or the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe; continued market volatility; write-downs of financial instruments that we own or
other losses related to volatile or illiquid market conditions; adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally; government regulation and supervision,
and associated limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions; recent legislative and regulatory actions; low or volatile interest rates and their impact on money market fund sponsors; changes to deposit insurance
premiums; the level of regulation and impact applicable to our competitors; the degree of consolidation and the breadth of products and services offerings of companies in the financial services industry and the ability of BNY Mellon to distinguish
itself from its competitors; declines in capital markets on our fee-based businesses; stable exchange-rate environment and declines in cross-border activity; dependence on consistent execution of fee-based services that we perform; the failure to
successfully integrate strategic acquisitions; the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, and our assumption of credit and counterparty risk; changes to credit ratings; capital adequacy; access to capital markets; monetary
policy and other governmental regulations; failures relating to operational risk and circumvention of controls and procedures; disruption or breaches in security of our information systems that results in a loss of confidential client information or
impacts our ability to provide services to our clients; dependence on technology and intellectual property; global operations and regulation; acts of terrorism and

global conflicts; risks relating to new lines of business; attracting and retaining employees; tax and
accounting laws and regulations; inadequate credit reserves; risks associated with being a holding company including our dependence on dividends from our subsidiary banks; the impact of provisions of Delaware law and the Federal Reserve on our
ability to pay dividends; and anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws.      These forward-looking statements, and
other forward-looking statements contained in other public disclosures of BNY Mellon (including those incorporated in this Form 10-K) are based on assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various
important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s control), including those factors described in  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as
a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to uncertainties inherent in the litigation and litigation settlement process.      In this report, and other public disclosures of BNY Mellon, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident, 
 target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will, 
 strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words of similar meaning signify forward-looking statements.      All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any statement to reflect events or circumstances after the
date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.   

2 BNY Mellon   

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
   FORM 10-K INDEX        

PART I     

Item 1.   
     
     Business    

4  

Item 1A.   
     
     Risk factors     

21  

Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved staff comments    

35  

Item 2.   
     
     Properties    

35  

Item 3.   
     
     Legal proceedings    

36  

Item 4.   
     
     Mine safety disclosures    

Not applicable  

PART II     

Item 5.   
     
     Market for the registrant s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity
 securities    

37  

Item 6.   
     
     Selected financial data    

37  

Item 7.   
     
     Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations    

37  

Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk    

37  

Item 8.   
     
     Financial statements and supplementary data    

37  

Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial
disclosure    

37  

Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and procedures    

37  

Item 9B.   
     
     Other information    

Not applicable  

PART III     

Item 10.   
     
     Directors, executive officers and corporate governance    

39  

Item 11.   
     
     Executive compensation    

41  

Item 12.   
     
     Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder
matters    

41  

Item 13.   
     
     Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence    

41  

Item 14.   
     
     Principal accounting fees and services    

41  

PART IV    

Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits, financial statement schedules     

42  

Signatures    

43  

Index to exhibits    

44  

PART I    

ITEM 1. BUSINESS    
    Description of Business        The Bank
of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with $25.8 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.26 trillion in assets under
management as of Dec. 31, 2011. We divide our businesses into two principal segments, Investment Management and Investment Services. We have an Other segment, which includes credit-related activities, the lease financing portfolio, corporate
treasury activities (including our investment securities portfolio), our equity investments in Wing Hang Bank Limited and ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead.      For a further discussion of BNY Mellon s products and services, see the  Overview ,  Summary of financial results ,  Fee and other revenue   Foreign exchange and other
trading revenue ,  Review of businesses  and  International operations  sections in the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) section in
the Annual Report and Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See  Available Information  on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to
access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.      We were formed as a bank holding
company ( BHC ) and have our executive offices in New York, New York. With its predecessors, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.      On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity (the
 merger ).      Our two principal banks are:       

The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, formerly named  The Bank of New York , which houses our institutional
businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and

Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.       

BNY Mellon, National Association ( BNY Mellon, N.A. ), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named  Mellon Bank, N.A. , which
houses our Wealth Management business.         Our U.S. bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment
management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) to the extent provided by law.   
  We have four U.S. trust companies. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois house trust
products and services across the United States. Also concentrating on trust products and services are BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank, and BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company, a Delaware-chartered entity. Most of our asset
management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.      Information on
international operations is presented in the  Net interest revenue ,  International operations ,  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans   Loans by product , and  Consolidated balance sheet review
  Loans   International loans  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Notes 6 and 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and in  Risk Factors  
Global Operations , in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       Primary
Subsidiaries       Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2011.   
   Discontinued Operations       As discussed in
Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, BNY Mellon reported results using the discontinued operations method of accounting for 2010 and 2009. All information in this
Form 10-K for 2010 and 2009, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.

4 BNY Mellon   

Supervision and Regulation        BNY Mellon, including through its subsidiaries, engages in banking, investment advisory and other securities-related activities in the United States and 35 other countries. We are subject to extensive
regulation worldwide. Regulatory bodies around the world are generally charged with:       

protecting the interests of customers, including depositors in banking entities and investors in mutual funds and other pooled vehicles our
subsidiaries may advise, and safeguarding the integrity of securities and other financial markets; and          

promoting financial stability in the relevant country.         They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of our stockholders or creditors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon
and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of
BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. For additional discussion of recent and proposed regulatory initiatives that may impact our business, see  Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section in the Annual Report, which
is incorporated herein by reference.       Regulatory Reforms       The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
 Dodd-Frank Act  or  Dodd-Frank ), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States and provides for enhanced supervision and prudential standards for, among other
things, BHCs like BNY Mellon that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses will depend to a large extent on the manner in which rules adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act are
implemented by the primary U.S. financial   
 
   regulatory agencies   the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal
Reserve ), the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ), the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC )   as well as potential changes in market practices and structures in
response to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and financial reforms in other jurisdictions. Among other things:       

Dodd-Frank created a new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ), to coordinate the efforts of the
primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns.          

Dodd-Frank directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve as to enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large,
interconnected financial institutions, including as indicated above BHCs like BNY Mellon with total consolidated assets of $50 billion (often referred to as  systemically important financial institutions ), and authorizes the Federal
Reserve to establish such standards either on its own or upon the recommendations of the FSOC. Dodd-Frank mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other
financial companies. In Dec. 2011, the Federal Reserve issued for public comment a notice of proposed rulemaking establishing enhanced prudential standards responsive to these provisions for:      

risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits;          

stress testing of capital;          

liquidity requirements;          

overall risk management requirements; and          

concentration/credit exposure limits.         Comments on the proposed rules, which we refer to as the  Proposed SIFI Rules , are due by March 31, 2012. The Proposed SIFI Rules address a wide, diverse array of regulatory areas, each of
which is highly complex. In some cases they would implement financial regulatory requirements being proposed for the first time, and in others overlap with other regulatory reforms. The Proposed SIFI Rules also address Dodd-Frank s early
remediation requirements applicable to BHCs that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The proposed remediation rules are modeled after the prompt corrective action regime, described below, but

BNY Mellon 5

are designed to require action beginning in the earlier stages of a company s financial distress by mandating action on the basis of arranged triggers, including capital and leverage, stress
test results, liquidity, and risk management. We are analyzing the impact of the Proposed SIFI Rules on our businesses. However, the full impact will not be known until the rules, and other regulatory initiatives that overlap with the rules, are
finalized and their combined impacts can be assessed.       

Dodd-Frank requires the U.S. financial regulatory agencies to adopt rules that prohibit banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading
and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (defined as hedge funds and private equity funds), with implementation starting as early as July 2012. The statutory provision is commonly called the  Volcker Rule. 
In October 2011 and January 2012, Federal regulators proposed rules to implement the Volcker Rule that included an extensive request for comments on the proposal. The proposed rules are highly complex, and are subject to revisions based on the
public comment process. Therefore, many aspects of their application will remain uncertain and the full impact on us will not be known until the rules are finalized. However, if adopted as proposed the rules could limit our ability to provide seed
capital to launch new hedge funds, private equity funds and other designated  similar funds  ( covered funds ) or our ability to engage in certain  covered transactions  under Federal Reserve Act s Section 23A
and 23B with covered funds for which BNY Mellon acts as both sponsor/manager and custodian. This latter provision may also affect BNY Mellon s ability to perform certain traditional custodial operational activities for these covered funds.

Dodd-Frank requires various U.S. financial regulatory agencies to implement comprehensive rules governing the supervision, structure, trading and
regulation of swap and over-the-counter derivative markets and participants. Dodd-Frank requires a large number of rulemakings in this area, many of which are not yet final. Once these rules are finalized, they could affect the way various BNY
Mellon subsidiaries operate, and changes to the markets and participants will impact business models and profitability of certain BNY Mellon subsidiaries.            
 
   In addition to the foregoing matters, the Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by
creating a resolution authority, and through numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to further
rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on BNY Mellon or across the industry. In addition to the discussion in this section, see  Risk Factors   Recent legislative
and regulatory actions may have an adverse effect on our operations  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. For additional discussion of proposed regulations that may impact our business, see the  Recent Accounting and Regulatory
Developments  in the MD A section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.      Since the Fall of 2008,
regulators, market participants and money market fund sponsors have focused on the risks that money market funds may pose to financial stability, particularly to market liquidity in short-term investments, and on what possible consequences
significant changes in the operations of such funds may have on the availability of short-term funding to government and financial and commercial borrowers. Although amendments were effected in 2010 to rules governing money market funds designed to
enhance their resilience to the possibility of  breaking the buck , additional proposals continue to be discussed. These include capital support or reserves, limitations on redemptions or a requirement that money market funds price their
shares at net asset value. It is premature to predict the outcome of these discussions and proposals, but regulatory changes to the money market fund industry could cause significant business disruptions to, and could materially impact the
operations and profitability of, this industry and BNY Mellon, which both manages and provides services for these funds.       Regulated
Entities of BNY Mellon       BNY Mellon is regulated as a BHC and a financial holding company ( FHC ) under the Bank Holding Company
Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and by the Dodd-Frank Act (the  BHC Act ). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve. In general, the BHC
Act limits the business of BHCs that are FHCs to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal

6 BNY Mellon   

Reserve has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act,
engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with
the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by
the Federal Reserve). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.   
  Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including:   

our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed  as described
under  Prompt Corrective Action  below; and          

BNY Mellon qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed  under applicable Federal Reserve regulations.
        An FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to
meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities, or make acquisitions, that are not generally permissible for BHCs without FHC status or to continue such activities. For additional discussion of our well capitalized status, see
 Capital  in the MD A section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.      The Bank of New York Mellon,
which is BNY Mellon s largest bank subsidiary, is a New York state chartered bank, a member of the Federal Reserve System and subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve and the New York State Department of
Financial Services. BNY Mellon s national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, are subject to primary regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC.   
  We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC-registered

broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ), a
securities industry self-regulatory organization. BNY Mellon s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated by supervisory agencies in the countries in which they conduct business. Certain of BNY Mellon s
public finance and advisory activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of BNY Mellon s subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are
subject to CFTC regulation. BNY Mellon also has a subsidiary that clears futures and derivatives trades on behalf of institutional clients and is registered with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant and is a member of the National Futures
Association.      In July 2011, our depository institutions were notified that they will be supervised by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
( CFPB ) for certain consumer protection purposes. The CFPB will focus on:       

risks to consumers and compliance with the Federal consumer financial laws, when it evaluates the policies and practices of a financial institution;

the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets; and      

depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services; depository institutions with a more specialized focus;
and non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services.         Certain of our subsidiaries
are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and as such are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of any
countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business if a regulated entity fails to comply with
such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the   40 Act ), including the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, and private
investment      companies which are not registered under the  40 Act.The shares of most investment

BNY Mellon 7

companies advised by our subsidiaries are qualified for sale in all states in the United States and the
District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification. New SEC
regulations will require additional data gathering and reporting to the SEC about the operations and investment activities of private funds in order to provide the FSOC with additional market data to monitor the potential for systemic risk in the
marketplace. Like most regulations, they will increase the compliance burdens and costs for the businesses that manage these funds.      Certain
of our investment management, trust and custody operations provide services to qualified retirement plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), which is under the jurisdiction of the
U.S. Department of Labor ( DOL ). Recently, the DOL proposed a number of new regulations that are designed to provide greater transparency to participants and beneficiaries of retirement plans and expand the definition of who is a
 fiduciary  to these regulated plans. Being an ERISA fiduciary imposes certain statutory duties, liabilities, disclosure obligations, and restrictions related to the services being performed and fees being paid. Expansion of the definition
of a fiduciary could require certain BNY Mellon businesses to modify their service model to conform to the regulations governing a fiduciary s conduct, which would likely impact the costs and profitability of such businesses.   
  Certain of our financial services operations in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority
( FSA ). The FSA has broad supervisory and disciplinary powers. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of U.K. Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 ( FSMA 2000 ) and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. The FSA imposes capital requirements on the entities it
regulates. The FSA regulates The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited, our U.K.-chartered bank, as well as the U.K. branches of The Bank of New York Mellon and The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV. In addition, the FSA regulates our trust
and depositary and certain of our corporate trust   
 
   businesses. Certain of BNY Mellon s U.K. incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct
investment business in the United Kingdom pursuant to the FSMA 2000. Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the FSA. Certain U.K. investment funds, including BNY
Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K.-regulated subsidiaries of BNY Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the United Kingdom.   
  Our investment management business is subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the
safeguarding of client assets and our management of client funds. The U.K. and European regulatory framework is changing. The U.K. government has announced that it intends to abolish the FSA and to establish three new regulatory bodies, the
Financial Policy Committee, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority in its place. In addition, there are various new European Directives including a significant revision to the Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive as well as the new Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive both of which will impact our operations.      The types of activities
in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the
laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate and, in the case of banking subsidiaries, may be subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of Dec. 31, 2011, each of BNY
Mellon s non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.      In connection with our role as a
clearing bank for the tri-party repurchase transaction market, or tri-party repo market, we work with dealers who use repos (i.e., repurchase transactions) to finance their securities by selling them to counterparties and agreeing to buy them back
at a later date. In tri-party repos, a clearing bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the intermediary between a dealer and its counterparty in settling the transaction and providing mark-to-market and other services. As a result of the
recent financial crisis, regulatory agencies worldwide have begun to re-examine systemic risks to various financial markets. One of the markets that regulatory agencies are reviewing,

8 BNY Mellon   

and in which we participate as a clearing bank, is the tri-party repo market. From 2009 until recently, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York sponsored a Task Force on Tri-Party Repo
Infrastructure Reform to examine the risks in the tri-party repo market and to decide what changes should be implemented so that such risks may be mitigated or avoided in future financial crises. The Task Force issued recommendations regarding the
tri-party repo market. BNY Mellon is working to implement the Task Force s recommendations on its tri-party repo business activities. Since May 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has released monthly reports on the tri-party repo
market, including information on aggregate volumes of collateral used in all tri-party repo transactions by asset class, concentrations, and margin levels, which is available at http://www.newyorkfed.org/tripartyrepo/margin_data.html.   
   Federal Reserve s Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review       In November 2011, the Federal Reserve published a final rule requiring BHCs (including BNY Mellon) with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets to submit annual capital plans to their respective
Federal Reserve Bank. The capital analysis and review process provided for in the rule is known as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or  CCAR . The capital plans are required to be submitted on an annual basis. Such BHCs will
also be required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor the companies  progress against their annual capital plans. The comprehensive capital plans, which are prepared using Basel
I capital guidelines, include a view of capital adequacy under four scenarios   a BHC-defined baseline scenario, a baseline scenario provided by the Federal Reserve, at least one BHC-defined stress scenario, and a stress scenario provided by
the Federal Reserve. Covered BHCs, including BNY Mellon, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. The rules
provide that the Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and maintain a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%
on a  pro forma  basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The rules also require, among other

things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1
common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. As part of this process, BNY Mellon also provides the Federal Reserve with projections covering the time period it will take us to fully comply with Basel III capital guidelines, including the 7%
Tier 1 common equity, 8.5% Tier 1 capital and 3% leverage ratios as well as granular components of those elements, as described further below under  Capital Requirements   Basel III . BNY Mellon s most recent capital plan was
filed with the Federal Reserve on Jan. 9, 2012.      The purpose of the Federal Reserve s capital plan review is to ensure that these BHCs
have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each BHC s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The CCAR rule, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board
guidance, provides that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.      The Proposed SIFI Rules, discussed earlier in this section under  Regulatory Reforms , would also include stress testing requirements that, among other things, stress test under a severely
adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. It also would require a semi-annual mid-year stress analysis.       Payment of Dividends and
Stock Repurchases       Dividend payments by BNY Mellon to its stockholders and stock repurchases by BNY Mellon are subject to the oversight of
the Federal Reserve. As described above in this section under  Federal Reserve s Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review , under the CCAR rule dividends and stock repurchases generally may only be paid or made under a capital plan as
to which the Federal Reserve has not objected.      BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank subsidiaries and other
subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt
issued by our subsidiaries or of trust preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and

BNY Mellon 9

regulations limit the amount of dividends that may      be paid to us by our bank
subsidiaries without regulatory consent. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the
financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have indicated that the
payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would reduce a depository institution s capital to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the  FDI Act ),
an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have
issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.      In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a  recent earnings  test and an
 undivided profits  test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared and paid by the entity in any calendar year exceeds the current year s net income combined with the retained
net income of the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity s  undivided profits  (generally, accumulated net profits
that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). The ability of BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations.
     For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the  Liquidity and dividends  section in the MD A   Results of
Operations section in the Annual Report and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Further, BNY Mellon s right to participate in the assets or earnings of
a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders       Transactions between BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries, on the one hand, and BNY Mellon and its non-bank subsidiaries, on the other, are regulated by the Federal Reserve. These regulations limit the
types and amounts of transactions (including loans due and extensions of credit from the U.S. bank subsidiaries) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arm s-length basis. These regulations generally do not
apply to transactions between a U.S. bank subsidiary and its subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit by a BNY Mellon bank subsidiary to BNY Mellon or to a BNY Mellon non-bank subsidiary must be secured by
designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the
aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank s capital stock and surplus.      The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of
the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization. For example, commencing in July 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act requires that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. Commencing in
July 2012, Dodd-Frank also expands the definition of a  covered transaction  to include derivatives transactions and securities lending transactions with a non-bank affiliate under which a bank (or its subsidiary) has credit exposure (with
the term  credit exposure  to be defined by the Federal Reserve under its existing rulemaking authority). Collateral requirements will apply to such transactions as well as to certain repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.
      Deposit Insurance       Our U.S.
banking subsidiaries, including The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A., accept deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The applicable limit for FDIC insurance for most types of accounts
is $250,000 for each right and capacity of the depositor. For noninterest-bearing transaction accounts there is temporary unlimited coverage through December 31, 2012. All funds held in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully
insured, without limit, and this coverage is separate from, and in addition to, the coverage provided to depositors for other accounts at The Bank of New

10 BNY Mellon   

York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the insured depository institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound
practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank s federal regulatory agency.   
  The FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund (the  DIF ) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. The FDIC required all insured
depository institutions to prepay estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. Prior to the Dodd-Frank Act, assessments were determined based on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured
deposits that it held. The Dodd-Frank Act required the FDIC to amend its assessment regulation so that assessments are based on the average consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the
assessment period instead of the amount of insured deposits an institution holds. The FDIC implemented the Dodd-Frank Act s provisions by establishing separate assessment systems for small institutions, generally those with assets less than $10
billion, and for large institutions, those generally having $10 billion in assets or more. Both assessment systems use the new method for calculating the assessment base. For smaller institutions, assessments are determined based on the risk
category of an institution and the assessment base. For larger institutions, such as The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A., assessments are determined based on CAMELS ratings and forward-looking financial measures to calculate the
assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the assessment base. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis, following notice-and-comment rulemaking if required.   
  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to increase the reserve ratio for the DIF from 1.15 percent in order to reach a minimum of 1.35 percent of
estimated insured deposits by September 30, 2020. The FDIC issued a final rule in December 2011 setting the increased reserve ratio at 2 percent. This increase may result in increased costs for our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon. The
Dodd-Frank Act also eliminates the ceiling (1.5 percent of insured deposits) on the size of the DIF and makes the payment of dividends from the DIF by the FDIC discretionary.

Source of Strength and Liability of Affiliates    
  Federal Reserve policy historically has required BHCs to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial
resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codified this policy as a statutory requirement. Such support may be required by the Federal Reserve at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, any loans by
BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. In the event of a BHC s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulator to maintain the
capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, in certain circumstances BNY Mellon s insured depository institutions could be assessed for losses incurred by another
BNY Mellon insured depository institution.      In the event of impairment of the capital stock of one of BNY Mellon s national banks or The
Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, as the banks  stockholder, could be required to pay such deficiency.       Resolution Planning
      As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and FDIC have jointly issued a final rule that requires certain organizations,
including BHCs with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, to report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. BNY Mellon s resolution plan
must, among other things, ensure that our depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected from risks arising from our other subsidiaries. The final rule sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic
analysis of the plan s components, a description of the range of specific actions the company proposes to take in resolution, and a description of the company s organizational structure, material entities, interconnections and
interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.      In addition, the FDIC has issued a final rule that requires
insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as The Bank of New York Mellon, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution s failure. The rule requires these insured
institutions   

BNY Mellon 11

to submit a resolution plan that will enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve the bank in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day
of the institution s failure, maximizes the net-present-value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss to be realized by the institution s creditors. The final rule also sets specific
standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan s components, a description of the strategies for achieving the least costly resolution, and analyses of the financial company s organization,
material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.      The two resolution plan
rules are complementary and we have commenced work on our initial resolution plans. We expect that our initial plans will be required to be submitted to the regulators by early in the fourth quarter of 2012.   
   Capital Requirements       As a BHC, we are
subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements, administered by the Federal Reserve in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the
OCC in the case of our national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. These requirements are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels
of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.      The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to BHCs are based on the
1988 Capital Accord ( Basel I ) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel Committee ). The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for  core banks,  including BNY
Mellon, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards ( Basel II ) issued by the Basel Committee in June 2004 and updated in November 2005. In December 2010, the Basel
Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as  Basel III . Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully

phased-in, will require BHCs and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additional information on the calculation of our Tier 1
capital, Total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in  Capital  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, and additional information on our capital requirements is set forth in  Recent
Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.   
   Basel I       Under the existing Basel
I-based regulations, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the components of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The regulatory
capital rules state that voting common stockholders  equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid over-reliance on non-common equity elements. Risk-adjusted assets are determined by
classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted categories. The required minimum ratio of  Total capital  (the sum of  Tier 1  and  Tier 2  capital) to risk-adjusted assets is currently 8%. The
required minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other
types of risk a banking organization may be exposed to ( e.g. , interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). Even without further rulemaking, the Federal Reserve may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of
banks, or for an individual bank as situations warrant. For example, BHCs experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant
reliance on intangible assets. Other factors identified by the risk-based capital requirements as important in assessing an institution s overall capital adequacy include concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from
non-traditional activities, including the management of those risks. At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon s Basel I Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and Total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 15.0% and 17.0%, respectively.

12 BNY Mellon   

In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange
and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the
banking organizations  own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators. In January 2011, certain of the federal banking agencies published proposed amendments to their market risk rules, known as  Basel
II.5 , intended to conform the federal banking agencies  market risk rules more closely to the Basel Committee s international standards. In December 2011, in response to a Dodd-Frank requirement that the federal banking agencies
remove references to credit ratings in their rules, the federal banking agencies published further proposed amendments to the market risk rules to implement that requirement. Those changes will result in increased capital requirements for market
risk.       Basel II       The federal
banking agencies are mandating the adoption of Basel II for  core  banks having either total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or foreign exposures of $10 billion or more, such as BNY Mellon and its depository institution
subsidiaries. The U.S. Basel II-based rules for  core  banks require those banks to apply Basel II s Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk and Advanced Measurement Approach ( AMA ) for
operational risk.      The U.S. Basel II final rule became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2009 was the first year for a
bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old regulations and new regulations. The U.S. Basel II rules originally provided that
 core  banks would calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of the three transitional floor periods. In the United States, we began the parallel run of calculations under both the
old and new guidelines in the second quarter of 2010. Our capital models are currently with the Federal Reserve for their approval. In response to a Dodd-Frank requirement, the federal banking agencies have amended their capital rules to

provide that minimum capital as required under the Basel I-based rules will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with the U.S. Basel II rules. Accordingly, the
transition for  core  banks to calculations only under the Basel II-based requirements is being eliminated.      Beginning Jan. 1, 2008,
we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach for our banks organized in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting
process. We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices.       Basel III    
  The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:       

specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of Tier 1 common equity and  Additional Tier 1 capital  instruments meeting specified requirements,
defines Tier 1 common equity narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to Tier 1 common equity and not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing
regulations;          

when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:      

as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5%  capital
conservation buffer  (which is added to the 4.5% Tier 1 common equity ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);      

a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1
capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);          

a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is
added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation);

BNY Mellon 13

as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average balance sheet exposures
plus certain average off-balance sheet exposures; and          

under some circumstances, a  countercyclical capital buffer , generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess
aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a Tier 1 common equity add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of
between 2.5% and 5%).         The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress.
Banking institutions with a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied)
will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.      On July 19, 2011, the
Basel Committee issued a consultative document setting forth proposals to apply a new Tier 1 common equity surcharge to certain global systemically important banks ( G-SIBs ), and on Nov. 4, 2011 the Basel committee issued final provisions
substantially unchanged from the proposals. In its Proposed SIFI Rules (discussed in this section under  Regulatory Reforms ), the Federal Reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate rulemaking, a Tier 1 common equity
surcharge for G-SIBs based on the Basel Committee s proposal. G-SIBs subject to the surcharge would be identified by application of a quantitative  indicator-based approach  comprised of five broad categories of indicators  
cross-jurisdictional activity, size, interconnectedness, substitutability and complexity. Each G-SIB would initially be assigned to one of four  buckets , with the capital surcharges for those buckets ranging from 1% to 2.5%. There would
be an additional 3.5% bucket that would initially be empty but that could be applied to a G-SIB that increases materially its global systemic importance in the future, for example by increasing total assets. The G-SIB equity surcharge provisions,
like the rest of Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act provisions referenced above, are subject to interpretation and implementation by U.S. regulatory authorities. In a companion release on Nov. 4, 2011 addressing progress on a variety of

financial regulatory reforms relating to global systemically important financial institutions, the
Financial Stability Board released a list of 29 such institutions that included BNY Mellon and indicated that it used the G-SIB surcharge methodology in creating the list.      The implementation of the Basel III final framework will commence Jan. 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:   

3.5% Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets;          

4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and          

8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.         The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to Tier 1 common equity. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax
assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from Tier 1 common equity to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of Tier 1 common equity or all such categories
in the aggregate exceed 15% of Tier 1 common equity.      Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to Tier 1 common equity will
begin on Jan. 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on Jan. 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on
each subsequent Jan. 1, until it reaches 2.5% on Jan. 1, 2019).      The timing for the U.S. banking agencies  publication of proposed rules
to implement the Basel III capital framework and the implementation schedule is uncertain. The release accompanying the Proposed SIFI Rules appears to indicate that rules implementing Basel III will be published for comment during the first
quarter of 2012. The rules ultimately adopted and made applicable to us may be different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010.       Impact on BNY Mellon       Because the U.S. banking agencies  rules implementing Basel III
may differ from the Basel III final framework, we cannot be certain of the impact the new regulations will have on our capital ratios. At Dec. 31, 2011, our Basel III ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets was 7.1%.   

14 BNY Mellon   

Leverage Requirement       Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard. However, even though a leverage requirement has not been an international standard in the past, the federal banking
agencies  capital regulations do require BHCs and banks to comply with a minimum leverage ratio requirement (Basel III will impose a leverage requirement as an international standard). The Federal Reserve s existing leverage ratio
requirement for BHCs is that the BHC maintains a ratio of Tier 1 capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The rules
require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for BHCs that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other BHCs are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of
4%. Also, the rules indicate that the Federal Reserve will consider a  tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio  in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking
organization s Tier 1 capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles). At Dec. 31, 2011, our leverage ratio was 5.2% and the leverage ratio of The Bank of New York Mellon was 5.3%.   
   Liquidity Ratios under Basel III    
  Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and BHC liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the United States and
internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and BHCs to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically
applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains
an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other,
referred to as the net stable funding ratio ( NSFR ), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of

banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incentivize banking entities to
increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the LCR will be subject to an
observation period continuing through mid-2013 and, subject to any revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard on Jan. 1, 2015. Similarly, it contemplates that
the NSFR will be subject to an observation period through mid-2016 and, subject to any revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard by Jan. 1, 2018.   
  As discussed above in this section under  Regulatory Reforms , the Proposed SIFI Rules address liquidity requirements for BHCs, including BNY
Mellon, with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. In the release accompanying those rules, the Federal Reserve states a general intention to incorporate the Basel III liquidity framework for the BHCs covered by the Proposed SIFI Rules
or a  subset  of those BHCs. Although the Proposed SIFI Rules do not include prescriptive ratios like the LCR and NSFR, they do include detailed liquidity-related requirements, including requirements for cash flow projections, liquidity
stress testing (including, at a minimum, over time horizons that include an overnight time horizon, a 30-day time horizon, a 90-day time horizon and a one-year time horizon), and a requirement that covered BHCs maintain a liquidity buffer of
unencumbered highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and the projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios.   
   Prompt Corrective Action       The FDI Act,
as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ( FDICIA ), requires the federal banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action  in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified
capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically undercapitalized. A depository institution is deemed
to be  well capitalized  if the banking institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a

BNY Mellon 15

Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive or prompt
corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which
an institution is classified.      At Dec. 31, 2011, all of our bank subsidiaries were  well capitalized  based on the ratios and
guidelines noted above. A bank s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank s overall financial condition or
prospects.       Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company    
  If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., upon
its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:       

to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed  bridge  bank without
the approval of the depository institution s creditors;          

to enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the
appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or          

to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to
be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.         In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority
over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC
ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., the debt holders

would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank.      The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as  orderly liquidation authority ) for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including BHCs and their affiliates. Under
the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its failed non-bank subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the
time of the institution s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system.      If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the
institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver
for depository institutions under the FDI Act. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors  claims
under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the
strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors  claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to
transfer claims to a  bridge  entity.      The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon
enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of Dodd-Frank, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification. The FDIC has completed its initial phase of rulemaking under the orderly liquidation
authority, but additional rules are under consideration. These rules may affect the manner in which the new authority is applied, particularly with respect to broker-dealer and futures commission merchant subsidiaries of BHCs.

16 BNY Mellon   

Depositor Preference       Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims
against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the  liquidation or other resolution  of such an institution by any receiver.       Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act       A major focus of governmental policy on
financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  USA Patriot Act ) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and
regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, identifying new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued
a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment
companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and
to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or
persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.   
   Privacy       The privacy provisions of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have
the opportunity to  opt out  of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.

Acquisitions       Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or BHCs. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for
the direct or indirect acquisition by a BHC of more than 5% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or BHC. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications,
the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the
applicant s record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 which requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities (including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies) and the effectiveness of the
subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to informal notice and approval by the Federal Reserve or other regulatory authorities.   
    Competition        BNY Mellon is
subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Investment Management business competes with asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust
banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. These firms and companies may be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and foreign banks that offer institutional trust, custody products
and cash management products, as well as a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer services for institutional and retail
customers. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates, lending limits and customer convenience.   
  Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation
as extensive as that described under the  Supervision and Regulation  section of this Form 10-K and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.

BNY Mellon 17

In recent years there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services
industry. Many broad-based financial services firms now have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset management, which may enhance their competitive position.   
  As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe
that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have
devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. For additional discussion regarding competition, see Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K,  Risk Factors   Competition   We are subject to intense competition in all
aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability  below, which is incorporated herein by reference.        Employees        At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately
48,700 employees.        Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies        The SEC s disclosure rules relating to the MD A require that the following statistical disclosures specified in the Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Exchange Act Industry
Guide 3 (together,  Guide 3 ) be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by BHCs.       

I.  
  Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders  Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential     
  Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and
 Supplemental information   Rate/volume analysis  sections in the MD A and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

II.  
  Investment Portfolio         

A.  
  Book Value of Investments;         

B.  
  Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,         

C.  
  Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders  Equity     
  Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and  Consolidated
balance sheet review   Investment securities  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section and in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

III.  
  Loan Portfolio         

A.  
  Types of Loans and         

B.  
  Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates        Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review   Loans  section in the MD A   Results of
Operations section and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
  C. Risk Elements and      D. Other Interest-bearing
Assets      Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review
  Loans  and    Nonperforming assets  and  International operations   Cross-border risk ,    Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations
section and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       

IV.  
  Summary of Loan Loss Experience        Information
required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the  Critical accounting estimates   Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments  section in the MD A   Results of
Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.      When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion
deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses 

18 BNY Mellon   

section in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.   
  Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit
exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the  Risk management   Credit risk  and  Critical accounting estimates  sections in the MD A   Results of
Operations section, Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.      V.
Deposits      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Net interest revenue  and
 Consolidated balance sheet review   Deposits  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.
     VI. Return on Equity and Assets   
  Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Financial summary  section, which is incorporated
herein by reference.      VII. Short-Term Borrowings      Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the  Consolidated balance sheet review   Short-term borrowings  section in the MD A   Results
of Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.        Replacement Capital Covenant     
  On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the  RCC ) in connection with the issuance by Mellon
Financial of  200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial s 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities, due 2066 (the  Junior Subordinated Debt Securities ) to Mellon Capital III (the
 Trust ) and the issuance by the Trust of  200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust s 6.369% trust preferred securities (the  Preferred Securities ). Under this section entitled  Replacement Capital
Covenant , we refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the

Preferred Securities collectively as the  Securities . Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed
Mellon Financial s obligations under the RCC.      BNY Mellon agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified
series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered Debt  in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:       

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless:

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital
guidelines applicable to BHCs; and          

the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash
proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally
described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and

BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to
capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.         The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have
CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered

BNY Mellon 19

Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such
series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the
other eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the
RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.   
  The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial s current report on Form 8-K filed on Sept. 20, 2006. The
description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.      On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a
Replacement Capital Covenant (the  2007 RCC ) in connection with (i) the issuance by Mellon Capital IV (the  2007 Trust ) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or  Normal
PCS  (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the  PCS ), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the issuance by Mellon
Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or  Junior Notes , and a 1/100th interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which the 2007 Trust is obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial is obligated to
sell, one share of Mellon Financial s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the  Preferred Stock ). Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial s obligation
under the 2007 RCC.      BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term
indebtedness for money borrowed, called  Covered Debt , that on or before the  Stock Purchase Date , as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be

June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before the  Termination Date ,
as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022), with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the  2007 Securities ):   

BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless:      

BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve s capital
guidelines applicable to BHCs; and          

the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and
its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are
expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.      
  The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon s
5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease
to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in
part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility
requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but
is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.

20 BNY Mellon   

The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial s current report on
Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.   
   ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS       Making or
continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth the most significant risk factors that could affect our business,
financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below, or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in our reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those
described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-K. See  Forward-looking Statements.         Market and Economic Risk Uncertainties in financial markets and weakness in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.     
  Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the
United States and elsewhere around the world. A variety of factors raise concern over the course and strength of the economic recovery, including depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment,
governmental budget deficits (including, in the United States, at the federal, state and municipal level), contagion risk from possible default by other countries on sovereign debt, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of
increased inflation. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions
would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may

face the following risks in connection with these events, some of which are discussed at greater length in separate risk factors:   

The fees earned by our Investment Management business   that is, Asset Management and Wealth Management   and, accordingly, its profitability
are higher as assets under management increase. Those fees are also impacted by the composition of the assets under management, with higher fees for some asset categories as compared to others. Uncertain and volatile capital markets could result in
reductions in assets under management because of investors  decisions to withdraw assets or from simple declines in the value of assets under management as markets decline. Uncertain and volatile financial markets may also result in changes in
customer allocations of funds among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives. Those changes in allocation may be from higher fee investments to lower fee investments. For example, at Dec. 31, 2011, using the S P 500
Index as a proxy for the global equity markets, we estimate that a 100-point change in the value of the S P 500 Index, sustained for one year, would impact fee revenue by approximately 1% and fully diluted earnings per common share by $0.03 to
$0.05.          

Uncertain and volatile capital markets, particularly declines, could reduce the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including
pension and other post-retirement plan assets.          

Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash
redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio
securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the level of liquidity that could be achieved from the portfolio securities in such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss
as a result of our operation of such funds.          

Low interest rates may result in the voluntarily waiving of fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees by us and others in
order to prevent clients  yields on such funds from becoming uneconomic, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.

BNY Mellon 21

The process we use to estimate our projected credit losses and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that
it requires use of statistical models and difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations. In uncertain
and volatile capital markets, our ability to estimate our projected credit losses may be impaired, which could adversely affect our overall profitability and results of operations.      

Our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets.
          Disruptions in European economies, or the failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe,
many of whom are major financial institutions, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.        The financial
markets remain concerned about the ability of certain European countries, particularly Greece, Ireland and Portugal, but also others such as Spain and Italy, to finance their deficits and service growing debt burdens amidst difficult economic
conditions. This loss of confidence has led to rescue measures for Greece, Ireland and Portugal by Eurozone countries and the International Monetary Fund as well as the European Central Bank s intervention to stabilize Italian and Spanish
bonds. The actions required to be taken by those countries as a condition to rescue packages, and by other countries to mitigate similar developments in their economies, have resulted in increased political discord within and among Eurozone
countries. We are primarily exposed to disruptions in European markets in two principal areas   on our balance sheet, in certain interest-bearing deposits with banks, loans, trading assets and investment securities, as well as our Investment
Management fee revenue relating to client investments in European assets. Additionally, continued disruptions in Europe could lead to increased client deposits and a larger balance sheet, which could adversely impact our leverage ratio.   
  The interdependencies among European economies and financial institutions have contributed to concerns regarding the stability of European financial
markets generally and certain institutions in particular. Financial services institutions are interdependent as a result of trading, clearing,

counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with European counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and
other institutional clients. As a result, defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more European financial institutions, or the financial markets generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and
could lead to losses by us or by other institutions in the future. Given the scope of our European operations, clients and counterparties, persistent disruptions in the European financial markets, the attempt of a country to abandon the Euro, the
failure of a significant European financial institution, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the Euro, could have an adverse impact on our business or results of operations.   
    Continued market volatility may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to manage risk.
       The capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the 2008 financial crisis. Under these
extreme conditions, our hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. Further market volatility could produce downward pressure on our stock
price and credit availability without regard to our underlying financial strength. The broad decline in stock prices throughout the financial services industry, which has also affected our common stock, could require further goodwill impairment
testing. A substantial goodwill impairment charge would not have a significant impact on our financial condition, but would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For a discussion of goodwill, see  Critical accounting estimates
  Goodwill and other intangibles  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if
unprecedented extreme market events were to reoccur. For a discussion of risk, see  Risk management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report. If markets experience further upheavals, there can be no
assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to manage risk and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

22 BNY Mellon   

We may experience further write-downs of financial instruments that we own and other losses related
to volatile and illiquid market conditions, reducing our earnings.        We maintain an investment securities portfolio of various
holdings, types and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes U.S. Treasury and agency securities, non-agency U.S. and non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, sovereign debt, commercial mortgage-backed securities, municipal securities, foreign
covered bonds, FDIC-insured debt, collateralized loan obligations and credit cards, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. This volatility affects the amount of our capital. In addition, if such
investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment which could impact our revenue in the quarter in which we recognize the
losses. For example, net securities losses totaled $4.8 billion in the third quarter of 2009, primarily as a result of a charge related to restructuring the investment securities portfolio, which resulted in negative earnings per share that quarter.
The losses in 2009 reflected both credit- and non-credit-related losses on our investment securities portfolio. We could experience losses related to our investment securities portfolio in the future, which could ultimately adversely affect our
results of operations and capital levels. For information regarding our investment securities portfolio, refer to  Consolidated balance sheet review   Investment securities  and for information regarding the sensitivity of and risks
associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the  Risk management   Market risk  sections both of which are in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and Note 5
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.        Reputational, Legal and Regulatory Risk Our business
may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.        We are subject to reputational, legal and regulatory risk in the ordinary course of our business.

The 2008 financial crisis and current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions have
resulted in a significant amount of adverse media coverage of financial institutions. Harm to our reputation can result from numerous sources, including adverse publicity arising from events in the financial markets, our perceived failure to comply
with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our employees or alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well-known companies. Additionally, a failure to deliver appropriate standards of
service and quality or a failure to appropriately describe our products and services can result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue, higher operating costs and litigation. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by other
members of or individuals in the financial services industry can also negatively impact our reputation. For example, public perception that some consumers may have been treated unfairly by financial institutions has damaged the reputation of the
financial services industry as a whole. Should any of these or other events or factors that can undermine our reputation occur, there is no assurance that the additional costs and expenses that we may need to incur to address the issues giving rise
to the reputational harm would not adversely affect our earnings and results of operations.      We are also the subject of inquiries,
investigations and proceedings by regulatory and other governmental agencies in the United States and abroad, as well as the Department of Justice and state attorneys general. Responding to such investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the
ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. Actions brought against us may result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, injunctions, settlements,
damages, fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, the outcome of such proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which
may last several years. Any or all of these risks could result in increased regulatory supervision and affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets. Adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal
proceedings can also adversely impact the morale and performance of our employees. See  Legal proceedings  in Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

BNY Mellon 23

We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and
supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions, which may limit our ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions and violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
       We operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to a comprehensive statutory and regulatory regime as well as oversight
by governmental agencies. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the Obama Administration, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. New or
modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. We are required to submit to the Federal Reserve an annual
capital plan outlining our planned capital actions for the following year. Our ability to take capital actions, including our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock is subject to Federal Reserve approval,
which is dependent on our successful demonstration that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a stressed market environment. For example, any increase in quarterly dividends not contemplated in the
annual capital plan will also require Federal Reserve approval. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large BHCs like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.
In addition, the implementation of certain regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors, including those who may not be subject to the same
regulatory requirements, which could put further pressure on the price of our common stock.      Failure to comply with laws, regulations or
policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and
procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. If violations do occur, they could damage our reputation and increase our legal and compliance costs, and ultimately adversely impact
our results of operations. Laws, regulations or policies, including

accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any
time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches
to compliance and enforcement. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Form 10-K.      Some of the governmental authorities which may
assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ from those encountered in the United States. For
example, on various dates from 2004 to 2011, BNY Mellon subsidiary Pershing LLC was named as a defendant in more than 100 lawsuits filed in Germany by plaintiffs who are investors with accounts at German broker-dealers. See  Legal
proceedings  in Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided more quickly than in the United States, trials may not involve testimony
of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess and
therefore we may not be able to estimate potential exposure for a matter.        Recent legislative and regulatory actions may have an adverse
effect on our operations.        In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This law broadly affects the financial
services industry, particularly those entities considered to be  systemically important , such as BHCs with assets of over $50 billion, including BNY Mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation
authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Further, in July
2011, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document setting forth proposals to apply a new Tier 1 common equity surcharge to certain G-SIBs, and in November, the Financial Stability Board indicated that BNY Mellon is one of the 29 G-SIBs
subject to this surcharge. Additionally, in its Proposed SIFI Rules, the Federal Reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate rulemaking, a Tier 1 common equity surcharge for G-SIBs based on the Basel Committee s proposal.

24 BNY Mellon   

Among numerous other provisions of recent legislative and regulatory changes that could have an effect on
BNY Mellon are:       

the Basel Committee s heightened capital and liquidity requirements;      

the potential requirement to register as a  municipal advisor . Depending upon the SEC s final interpretation of the statutory
requirement, BNY Mellon and a large number of employees located throughout the country may be required to register as a municipal adviser, which would impose increased costs and burdens on, and changes to, our business and may necessitate a
re-evaluation of the affected services;          

the required registration of swap dealers and associated compliance duties, reporting and record-keeping with respect to swaps and clearing and
execution obligations, among other duties; and          

various features of the  Volcker Rule  element of the Dodd-Frank Act, including:      

o  
  establishment of a costly heightened compliance regime;         

o  
  the need to liquidate investments in certain funds at an accelerated pace at unfavorable pricing; and     

o  
  preclusion from launching new funds to meet customer demand, and the competitive disadvantage vis- -vis other managers not subject to the Volcker Rule.
       U.S. regulatory agencies   banking, securities and commodities   are steadily publishing notices of proposed
regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and new bodies created by Dodd-Frank (including the FSOC and the CFPB) are commencing operations. The related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of
the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business practices
and plans, including those relating to cross-selling our products and services. These changes could also expose us to additional regulatory costs and require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes,
all of which could impact our profitability. See  Supervision and Regulation  in

this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business.        Interest Rate Environment Low or volatile interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.        Our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. Our net interest revenue is the
difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits
and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold.      The global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts
in interest rates. During fiscal 2010 and 2011, the Federal Open Market Committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. The low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based
revenues. It has also resulted in the voluntary waiving of fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees by us and others in order to prevent the yields on such funds from becoming uneconomic, which has an adverse impact on
our revenue and results of operations.      Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on
liabilities. A rising interest rate environment may result in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment may result in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage
our interest rate risk, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Further rapid increases in interest rates could also trigger one or more of the following additional effects, which could impact our business, results of
operations and financial condition:       

changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under  Asset/liability
management  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report;          

an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in
interest rates;      

BNY Mellon 25

a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and      

increased borrowing costs.      
  A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the  Risk management  section in the MD A  
Results of Operations in the Annual Report.        Deposit Insurance Deposit insurance premiums may continue to increase, which could
increase our costs.        During 2009 and 2010, due to a higher level of bank failures, the FDIC increased recurring deposit insurance
premiums, imposed a special assessment on insured financial institutions, and required insured financial institutions to prepay three years of deposit premiums, which increased our costs. Due to the continuing volume of bank failures, it is possible
that a continued high level of funding will be required from insured financial institutions, such as The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Additionally, the failure by BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries to maintain its  well
capitalized  status could also lead to higher FDIC assessments.        Competition We are subject to intense competition in all
aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.        Many businesses in
which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Competitors include other banks, trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, asset managers, insurance companies and a variety of other financial services and advisory companies whose
products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, technological advances and the growth of internet-based commerce have made it possible for other types of institutions, such as
outsourcing companies and data processing companies, to offer a variety of products and services competitive with certain areas of our business. Increased competition in any one or all of these areas may require us to make additional capital
investments in our businesses in order to remain competitive.      Furthermore, pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to
offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction

in the price we can charge for our products and services, which would likely negatively affect our ability
to maintain or increase our profitability.      Recently enacted and proposed legislation and regulation may impact our ability to conduct certain
of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including legislation relating to restrictions on the types of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, such as seed capital investing. This legislation and other
regulations may not apply to all of our competitors, which could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. A decline in our competitive position could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and could impact
our ability to attract and retain talent.        Dependence on fee-based business We are dependent on fee-based business for a
substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, weak financial markets or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.
       Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, which is distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of
their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, such as investment
management, custody, corporate trust, depositary receipts, clearing, collateral management and treasury services.      Fees for many of our
products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing,
global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues. If the volumes of these activities decrease, our revenues will also decrease, which would negatively impact
our results of operations.      Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we
receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Weak financial markets could result in reduced market

26 BNY Mellon   

values in some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of
operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of
operations.      Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined
benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds,
defined benefit plans or defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.        Our fee-based revenues could be
adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.        The degree of volatility in
foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more
volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.      Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting
from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity.   
    Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform.
       We provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and
recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us
in a   
 
   custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in
a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure
may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.      From time to time our internal strategies and forecasts may assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline in
the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions
would also adversely affect our results of operations.        Integration of Acquisitions Our failure to successfully integrate strategic
acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.        From time to time,
to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. For example, on July 1, 2010, we acquired Global Investment Servicing ( GIS ), which provides a
comprehensive suite of products that includes subaccounting, fund accounting/administration, custody, managed account services and alternative investment services. We are in the process of integrating GIS and other businesses that we have acquired,
but each of these acquisitions poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining and assimilating clients and key employees, capitalizing on certain revenue synergies, integrating the acquired company s accounting management
information, internal controls and other administrative systems and technology. We may be required to spend a significant amount of time and resources to integrate these acquisitions and the anticipated benefits may take longer to achieve than
projected. Moreover, to the extent we enter into an agreement to buy or sell an entity, there can be no guarantee that the transaction will close when anticipated, or at all. In particular, in certain instances we must seek regulatory approvals
before we can acquire another organization, which can delay or disrupt such acquisitions. If we fail to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions on a timely basis or in a cost-

BNY Mellon 27

effective manner, we may not meet our expectations regarding the profitability of such acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.        Counterparty Risk The failure or instability of any of our significant counterparties, many of whom are major
financial institutions, and our assumption of credit and counterparty risk, could expose us to loss and adversely affect our business.     
  Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial
institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, particularly with other financial institutions,
and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults or non-performance
by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other
institutions in the future. For example, as a result of our membership in several industry clearing or settlement exchanges, we may be required to guarantee obligations and liabilities or provide financial support in the event that other members do
not honor their obligations or default. These obligations may be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of our contribution to a member s guarantee fund, or, in a few cases, the
obligation may be unlimited. The consolidation of financial service firms and the failures of other financial institutions have increased the concentration of our counterparty risk. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral
held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. In addition, disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral significantly increase in times
of market stress and illiquidity.      The degree of client demand for short-term credit also tends to increase during periods of market
turbulence, exposing us to

further counterparty-related risks. For example, investors in collective investment vehicles for which we act as custodian may engage in significant redemption activity due to adverse market or
economic news that was not anticipated by the fund s manager. Our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process and our systems may result in our extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. For some types of
clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if the client experiences credit difficulties. In addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to
concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of events. As a consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our
exposure to one of its affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized. Moreover, not all of our counterparty exposure is secured and, when our exposure is secured, the realizable market value of the collateral may have declined by the
time we exercise rights against that collateral. This risk may be particularly acute if we are required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily impaired market.      We act as agent for securities lending arrangements between customers and financial counterparties, including broker-dealers, wherein securities are sourced from our customers versus cash or securities
posted by such financial counterparties. We invest the proceeds from such securities lending transactions pursuant to certain instructions or guidelines from customers. In certain cases, we agree to indemnify our customers against defaults on the
securities lending agreements and may have to buy-in the securities with the cash collateral or the proceeds from the liquidation of the collateral. In those instances, we, rather than our customers, are exposed to the risks of the defaulting
counterparty on the securities lending transaction.      Although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our
business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our currency and other trading activities, our securities lending business and our investment management business. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and
adversely affect our results of operations.   

28 BNY Mellon   

Credit Ratings Any material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our
subsidiaries, The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A., could increase the cost of funding and borrowing to us and our rated subsidiaries and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
       Our debt and trust preferred securities and the debt and deposits of our subsidiaries, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon,
N.A., are currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our rated subsidiaries and their outlook on us and our rated subsidiaries. Their credit ratings are based on a number of
factors, including our financial strength, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In addition, rating agencies employ different models and formulas to assess the
financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to rating agency models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside of our control could impact a
rating agency s judgment of the rating or outlook it assigns us or our rated subsidiaries. In view of the difficulties experienced in recent years by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten their level of
scrutiny, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of rating levels. For example, in November
2011, S P revised its ratings methodology for banks, which resulted in a downgrade of the debt ratings of BNY Mellon and our rated subsidiaries. Similarly in December 2011, Moody s placed the long-term ratings of BNY Mellon and its rated
subsidiaries on review for possible downgrade and indicated that it would review BNY Mellon s risk profile, capital plans and earnings prospects in light of an operating environment characterized by lower interest rates, greater capital markets
volatility and heightened litigation risks.      Moreover, Moody s has indicated that regulatory changes in the Dodd-Frank Act could result
in lower debt and deposit ratings for U.S. banks and other financial institutions, including us, whose ratings currently benefit from assumed government support. Currently, our ratings benefit from one notch of  lift  and The Bank of New
York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. benefit from two notches of  lift  as a

result of the rating agency s government support assumptions. Moody s continues to evaluate whether to reduce its support assumptions to below pre-financial crisis levels for banks that
currently benefit from ratings uplift. In this context, in June 2011, the rating outlook on the deposit, senior debt, and senior subordinated debt ratings of BNY Mellon and its rated subsidiaries changed to negative from stable. Similarly, in
November 2011, S P s outlook on the debt ratings of BNY Mellon and its rated subsidiaries changed to negative from stable, reflecting S P s outlook on the U.S. government rating and its assumption that our ratings enjoy one notch
of  uplift  from assumed government support. There can be no assurance that we or our rated subsidiaries will maintain our respective credit ratings or outlook on our securities.      A material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our rated subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our access to credit markets, the related cost of funding, our credit
spreads, our liquidity and on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical.      A
material reduction in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. could affect the cost of, and other terms upon which we are able to obtain, funding and borrowing. Our credit spreads, which is the
amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity that we need to pay our debt investors, may be impacted by our credit ratings and market perceptions of our creditworthiness. In
addition, in connection with certain over-the-counter derivatives contracts and other trading agreements, counterparties may require us to provide additional collateral or to terminate these contracts and agreements and collateral financing
arrangements in the event of a material credit ratings downgrade below certain ratings levels. Termination of these contracts and agreements could impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash
payments or securities movements. An increase in the costs of our funding and borrowing, or an impairment of our liquidity, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict what actions
rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.

BNY Mellon 29

Supervisory Standards Failure to satisfy regulatory standards, including
 well-capitalized  and  well-managed  status or capital adequacy guidelines more generally, could result in limitations on our activities and adversely affect our financial condition.     
  Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet
guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed under  Supervision and
Regulation  in this Form 10-K, BNY Mellon is regulated as a BHC and an FHC. Our ability to maintain our status as an FHC is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries qualifying on an ongoing
basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed  under the banking agencies  prompt corrective action regulations and upon BNY Mellon qualifying on an ongoing basis as  well capitalized  and  well managed 
under applicable Federal Reserve regulations. Failure by BNY Mellon or one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to qualify as  well capitalized  and  well managed , if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status
as an FHC and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. Additionally, an FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status could lose the ability to undertake new activities
or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for BHCs without FHC status or to continue such activities. During periods of market uncertainty, custody customers may choose to hold cash balances instead of securities, with those cash
balances customarily invested in deposits of our bank subsidiaries. Such inflows of cash deposits could adversely impact our leverage ratio. As a BHC, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal
Reserve. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements, administered by the Federal Reserve in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the OCC in the case of our national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. Failure by BNY Mellon or one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as  adequately capitalized  would lead to regulatory sanctions and limitations and could lead the
federal banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action . Furthermore, failure by one of our bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as  well

capitalized  could lead to higher FDIC assessments. If our company, our subsidiary banks, or
broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we may not be able to deploy capital in the operation of our business or distribute capital to stockholders, which may adversely affect our business.
The capital requirements applicable to us as well as to our subsidiary banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with Basel III and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks will be
required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Form 10-K and the  Liquidity and
dividends  and  Capital   Capital adequacy  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section and the  Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  section in the MD A section in the Annual Report.
       Access to Capital Markets If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our liquidity, financial condition and
results of operations may be adversely affected.        Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital
markets on a regular basis. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated
operations. Events or circumstances, such as market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our
liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could
be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or
we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and
trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations.

30 BNY Mellon   

Monetary and Other Governmental Policies Change or uncertainty in monetary and other
governmental policies may impact our profitability and ability to compete.        The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and
its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. For example, the Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its policies
determine in large part our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. The actions of the Federal Reserve also can
materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, and its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Due to current market conditions, we anticipate that tax and other
government policies will become more rigorous. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory
investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of
geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. Our business and earnings are also affected by the fiscal or other policies that are adopted by various U.S.
regulatory authorities, non-U.S. governments and international agencies. Changes in domestic and international fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and we cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such
changes would have upon our financial condition or operations. See  Supervision and Regulation  in this Form 10-K.   
    Operational Risk Our business may be adversely affected by operational risk.        We are exposed to operational risk as a result of conducting various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services.
Examples of operational risk include: the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction

processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or
persons outside BNY Mellon, business interruption due to system failures, natural disasters or other unforeseeable events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
Operational risk may also include breaches of our technology and information systems resulting from unauthorized access to confidential information or from internal or external threats, such as cyber attacks. Operational risk also includes potential
legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulatory requirements or contracts which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our
business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as systems failures or
natural disasters, could damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and ultimately negatively impact our results of
operations due to potentially higher expenses and lower revenues. For a discussion of operational risk see  Risk management   Operational risk  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.   
    A failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.        Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate
governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure
or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we identify material
weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the
accuracy and completeness of our financial reports.   

BNY Mellon 31

If our information systems experience a disruption or breach in security that results in a loss of
confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide services to our clients, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.        We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The security of our computer systems, software and networks, and those functions that we may outsource, may be vulnerable
to breaches, hacker attacks, unauthorized access and misuse, computer viruses and other cybersecurity risks and events that could result in failures or disruptions in our business, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan
systems. Our businesses that rely heavily on technology, such as our Investment Services business, are particularly vulnerable to security breaches and technology disruptions. Breaches of security may occur through intentional or unintentional acts
by those having authorized or unauthorized access to our or our clients  or counterparties  confidential information, including employees and customers, as well as hackers. A breach of security that results in the loss of confidential
client information may require us to reimburse clients for data and credit monitoring efforts and would be costly and time-consuming, and may negatively impact our results of operations and reputation. Additionally, security breaches or disruptions
of our information system could impact our ability to provide services to our clients, which could expose us to liability for damages, result in the loss of customer business, damage our reputation, subject us to regulatory scrutiny or expose us to
civil litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure to upgrade or maintain our computer systems, software and networks, as necessary, could also make us
susceptible to breaches and unauthorized access and misuse. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. We may be required to
expend significant additional resources to modify, investigate or remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from information systems security risks. For a discussion of operational risk, see  Risk management   Operational
risk  in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.

Technology We depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties
misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.        We are dependent on technology because many of our
products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop
competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products
may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.      Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened
settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and
market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.   
  Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing
investments. We cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development
costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.      Furthermore, if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement or
misappropriation of its proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such
claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.

32 BNY Mellon   

Global Operations We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that
are inherent in operating globally and which may materially adversely affect our business.        In conducting our business and maintaining
and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of loss from the outbreak of hostilities and various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental
policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. Our international businesses are regulated in the jurisdictions
in which they are located or operate. These regulations may apply heightened scrutiny to non-domestic companies, which can reduce our flexibility as to intercompany transactions, investments and other aspects of business operations and adversely
affect our liquidity, profitability and regulatory capital. The failure of our systems of internal control to properly mitigate such risks, or of its operating infrastructure to support such international activities, could result in operational
failures and regulatory fines or sanctions, which could cause our earnings or stock price to decline. Further, our businesses and operations from time to time enter into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. Various emerging
market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative
growth rates in their economies. Crime, corruption, war or military actions, and a lack of an established legal and regulatory framework are additional challenges in certain emerging markets. Revenue from international operations and trading in
non-U.S. securities and other obligations may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above considerations. The possible effects of any of these conditions may adversely affect our business and increase volatility in global financial
markets generally.        Acts of Terrorism and Global Conflicts Acts of terrorism and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our
business and operations.        Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While
we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism and global

conflicts could still damage our facilities, disrupt or delay the normal operations of our business (including communications and technology), result in harm or cause travel limitations on our
employees, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent that those acts or conflicts result in
reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. War, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, the
national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further negatively impact economic growth, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations,
and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict.        New Business New lines of business or new products
and services may subject us to additional risks.        From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and
services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and
resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. As we develop new lines of business or new
products or services, our revenues and costs may fluctuate because generally new businesses require start-up expenses but take time for revenues to develop. As a result of the uncertainties associated with the entry into new businesses, our business
may be adversely impacted.        Attraction and Retention of Employees Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to
attract and retain employees.        Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our
existing employees, and continue to compensate our employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny of the compensation practices of large financial institutions. Competition for the best employees in most activities in which we
engage can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we   

BNY Mellon 33

will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain key personnel. Factors that affect our ability to attract and retain key employees include our compensation and benefits programs and our
reputation for rewarding and promoting qualified employees. Our ability to attract and retain key executives and other employees may be hindered as a result of regulations applicable to incentive compensation and other aspects of our compensation
programs promulgated by the Federal Reserve and other regulators in the United States and worldwide, regulations on incentive compensation to be promulgated by various U.S. regulators pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and other existing and potential
regulations. These regulations, which include and are expected to include mandatory deferral and clawback requirements, do not and will not apply to some of our competitors and to other institutions with which we compete for talent. Our ability to
recruit and retain key talent may be adversely affected by these regulations.        Tax Laws and Regulations Tax law changes or
challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.     
  In the course of our business, we receive inquiries from both U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters
discussed in Notes 13 and 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. If we are not successful in defending these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the
allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when
necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business. In addition, changes in tax
legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.        Accounting
Principles Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.        From time to time, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board, the International Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and bank regulators

change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial
statements such as the potential adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. See
 Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments  in the MD A section in the Annual Report. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and
other financial data.        Credit Reserves We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan
reserves, are inadequate.        We have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the financial, airline and automotive industries,
monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending
activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on statistical models and our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to
create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. In addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management
estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings.   
    Holding Company Risks We are a non-operating holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our
subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our stockholders.        We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries   The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A.   and our other
subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and

34 BNY Mellon   

interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our
stockholders, to the extent declared by our Board of Directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our
affiliates.      Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our
subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See  Supervision
and Regulation   Payment of Dividends and Stock Repurchases  in this Form 10-K, the  Liquidity and Dividends  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section and Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in the Annual Report.      Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our
debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their
depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims.
Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.
       Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by the
Federal Reserve or applicable provisions of Delaware law.        Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as
our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly
dividend would require approval from the Federal Reserve. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the

future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   
    Delaware Law Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our
stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.        Provisions of Delaware law and provisions
of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Additionally, our certificate of
incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a
third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. These provisions could also potentially deprive stockholders of an opportunity to sell their shares of common stock at a premium over prevailing
market prices as a result of a takeover bid or merger.       ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    
  None.       ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
      We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs. At a number of the locations described
below, we are not currently occupying all of the space under our control. Where commercially reasonable and to the extent it is not needed for future expansion, we have leased or subleased, or seek to lease or sublease, this excess space. The
following is a description of our principal properties, as of Dec. 31, 2011:       New York City properties    
  We own a 49-story office building located at One Wall Street that serves as our corporate headquarters. We also own our 23-story operations center
building located at 101 Barclay Street, and lease the land on which that building sits under a ground lease expiring in 2080. In addition, we lease approximately 372,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 200 Park Avenue and
approximately 318,000 square feet of space in an office building located at 2 Hanson Place in Brooklyn. The New York City properties are utilized by all of our segments.

BNY Mellon 35

Pittsburgh properties       We lease under a long-term, triple net lease the entire 54-story office building known as BNY Mellon Center located at 500 Grant Street. In addition, we own a 42-story office building located at 525
William Penn Place and a 14-story office building located at 500 Ross Street. The Pittsburgh properties are utilized by all of our segments.   
   Boston properties       We lease
approximately 373,000 square feet of space in a Boston office building located at One Boston Place, 201 Washington Street. We also lease under a triple net lease the entire 3-story office building located at 135 Santilli Highway in Everett,
Massachusetts. Additionally, we lease approximately 304,000 square feet at 4400 Computer Drive in Westborough, Massachusetts. The Boston properties are utilized by all of our segments.       New Jersey properties       We lease approximately 485,000 square feet of space in an office
building located at 95 Christopher Columbus Drive, Jersey City, primarily utilized by our Investment Services segment.       United Kingdom
properties       We have a number of leased office locations in London (including approximately 234,000 square feet of space at BNY Mellon
Centre at 160-162 Queen Victoria Street and approximately 152,000 square feet of space at The Tower at One Canada Square at Canary Wharf), as well as other leased office locations throughout the United Kingdom, including locations in Manchester,
Poole, Leeds, Brentwood, Liverpool, Swindon and Edinburgh. The UK properties are utilized by all of our segments.

India properties       We lease approximately 401,000 square feet of office space in Pune, India and approximately 358,000 square feet in Chennai, India. The India properties are utilized by all of our segments.   
   Other properties       We also lease (and in
a few instances own) office space and other facilities at numerous other locations both within and outside of the U.S., including properties located in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Florida, Delaware, Texas,
California, Illinois, Washington and the mid-south region of the U.S.; Brussels, Belgium; Navan, Wexford, Dublin and Cork in Ireland; Luxembourg; Frankfurt, Germany; Singapore; Hong Kong and Shanghai in China; Tokyo, Japan and Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.       ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS       The information required by this Item is set forth in the  Legal proceedings  section in Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portion is
incorporated herein by reference.       ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.       Not applicable.   

36 BNY Mellon   

PART II    

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BK. BNY Capital IV s
6.875% Preferred Trust Securities, Series E (symbol: BKPrE), BNY Capital V s 5.95% Preferred Trust Securities, Series F (symbol: BKPrF) and Mellon Capital IV s 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities (symbol:
BK/P) are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per share of our common stock and our common stock dividend for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2010 and 2011 is set forth in the
 Selected Quarterly Data  section in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. As of Dec. 31, 2011, there were 33,222 holders of record of our common stock.      For additional information about dividends and a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries and our payment of dividends to stockholders, see
the  Liquidity and Dividends  section in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and  Supervision and Regulation  
Payment of Dividends and Stock Repurchases  in Item 1 of this Form 10-K, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
  Additional information about our common stock, including information about share repurchases during the fourth quarter of 2011 and existing Board of
Directors authorization with respect to purchases by us of our common stock, and other equity securities is provided in the  Capital   Stock repurchase program  section of the MD A Results of Operations section in the Annual
Report and Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
   ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    
  The information required by this Item is set forth in  Financial Summary ,  Summary of financial results  in the MD A  
Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and Notes 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
      The information required by this Item is set forth in the MD A and Notes 3, 13, 15, 20, 24 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.       ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK       The information required by this Item is set forth in the  Critical accounting estimates ,
 Off-balance sheet arrangements ,  Risk management ,  Trading activities and risk management  and  Asset/liability management  sections in the MD A   Results of Operations section in the Annual Report
and Note 1 under  Derivative financial instruments  and Notes 22, 24 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA       Reference is made to Item 15 on page 42 hereof for a detailed listing of the items under Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules, Exhibits and Other Financial Data, which are
incorporated herein by reference.       ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
      None.       ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES        Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, with participation by the members of the Disclosure Committee, has responsibility for ensuring that there is an adequate
and effective process for establishing, maintaining, and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our SEC reports is timely recorded, processed, summarized and
reported and that information required to be disclosed by BNY Mellon is accumulated and communicated to BNY Mellon s

BNY Mellon 37

management to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure. In addition, our ethics hotline can also be used by employees and others for the anonymous communication of concerns about
financial controls or reporting matters. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and
procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.      As of Dec. 31, 2011, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective.   
 
    Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting    
  In the ordinary course of business, we may routinely modify, upgrade or enhance our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. There have
not been any changes in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act during the fourth quarter of 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal
control over financial reporting.       Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm       See  Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and  Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  on pages 86 and 87 of the Annual Report, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.   
   ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION       None.

38 BNY Mellon   

PART III    

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE    
  The information required by this Item is included below and in the Proxy in the following portions of the  Election of Directors  section:
 Information About the Nominees ,  Director Qualifications ,  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Audit Committee, and   Committees and Committee Charters ,  Nomination Procedures ,
 Nominees for Election as Directors ,  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and  Director Compensation , which portions are incorporated herein by reference.   
   CODE OF ETHICS       We have adopted a code
of ethics for our employees which we refer to as our Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries, including our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer), Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer) and Controller (principal accounting officer). The Code of Conduct is posted on our website at www.bnymellon.com/ ethics/codeofconduct.pdf. We also have a code of ethics for our directors, which we refer to as our
Directors  Code of Conduct. The Directors  Code of Conduct applies to all directors of BNY Mellon. The Directors  Code of Conduct is posted on our website at www.bnymellon.com/governance/directorscodeof conduct.pdf. Both the Code of
Conduct and the Directors  Code of Conduct are available in print, without charge, to any stockholder who requests a copy. Requests should be sent to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Office of the Secretary, One Wall Street, New York,
NY 10286. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments to or waiver of the Code of Conduct relating to executive officers (including the officers specified above) and will disclose any amendments to or waivers of the Directors  Code of
Conduct relating to our directors.       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT       The name and age of, and positions and offices held by, each executive officer of BNY Mellon as of February 28, 2012, together with the offices held by each such person during the last five years,
are listed below and on the following two pages. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the appointing authority. No executive officer has

a family relationship to any other executive officer or director or nominee for director.   

(1)  
  Mr. Hassell also serves as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From July 1, 2007 to
August 31, 2011, Mr. Hassell served as President of BNY Mellon, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hassell served as President of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and The Bank of New York since
at least 2006.     

BNY Mellon 39

(2)  
  Mr. Arledge also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Investment Management and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From 2008 to
November 2010, Mr. Arledge served as Chief Investment Officer for fixed income portfolios at BlackRock, Inc., an investment management firm. From prior to 2006 to 2008, Mr. Arledge served as the global head of the fixed income division of
the corporate and investment banking group in Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company.         

(3)  
  Mr. Gibbons also serves as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Mr. Gibbons served as Chief Risk
Officer of BNY Mellon from July 1, 2007 to July 1, 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Gibbons served as Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York Company, Inc. from September 2006 until June 2007.
Prior to the merger, he also served as Chief Financial Officer of The Bank of New York from September 2006 until June 2007.         

(4)  
  Mr. Keaney also serves as Chief Executive Officer of BNY Mellon Asset Servicing and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the
merger, Mr. Keaney served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006.         

(5)  
  Mr. Palermo also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Global Client Management and Liquidity Services and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY
Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Palermo served as Vice Chairman of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2006.     

(6)  
  Ms. Peetz also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Financial Markets   Treasury Services and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon,
N.A. Prior to the merger, Ms. Peetz served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006.         

(7)  
  Mr. Rogan also serves as Chief Risk Officer of BNY Mellon and Vice Chairman of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Rogan
served as     
 
   Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since at least 2006.   

(8)  
  Mr. Brueckner also serves as Chief of Staff of BNY Mellon and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A.
Prior to the merger, Mr. Brueckner served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of Pershing LLC since at least 2006 to October 2010 and Chairman of Pershing LLC from
May 2007 to December 2011.         

(9)  
  Mr. Certosimo also serves as Chief Executive Officer of Global Markets and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. He
served as an Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon beginning in July 2007 and ending in May 2009. Prior to July 2007, Mr. Certosimo served as head of Broker Dealer Services and Alternative Investment Services and Executive
Vice President of The Bank of New York since at least 2006.         

(10)  
  Ms. Peters also serves as Chief Human Resources Officer of BNY Mellon and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior
to the merger, Ms. Peters served as an Executive Vice President of Mellon Bank, N.A. since at least 2006.         

(11)  
  Ms. Sherburne also serves as Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. From 2009 to May 2010,
Ms. Sherburne conducted a private legal practice. Ms. Sherburne served as General Counsel for Wachovia Corporation, a financial services company, from 2008 to 2009 and as General Counsel for the Global Consumer Group of Citigroup Inc., a
financial services company, from at least 2006 to 2008.         

(12)  
  Mr. Woetzel also serves as Chief Administrative Officer and Head of Global Operations and Technology at BNY Mellon and Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank
of New York Mellon and Vice President of BNY Mellon, N.A. Prior to the merger, Mr. Woetzel served as Senior Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York since May 2006.     

(13)  
  Mr. Park also serves as Executive Vice President of The Bank of New York Mellon

40 BNY Mellon   

and BNY Mellon, N.A. since August 2009, and Controller of The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. since May 2008. Mr. Park served as Managing Director of The Bank of New York Mellon
beginning with the merger and ending in May 2008. Prior to the merger, Mr. Park served as Managing Director of The Bank of New York since at least 2006.        The Bank of New York Mellon, BNY Mellon, N.A. and Pershing LLC, as referenced in the foregoing footnotes, are subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation.   
   ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION    
  The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following portions of the  Election of Directors  section:
 Compensation and Risk ,  Director Compensation ,  Executive Compensation ,  Compensation Discussion and Analysis ,  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Committees and Committee
Charters ,  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Human Resources and Compensation Committee   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and the  Report of the Human Resources and
Compensation Committee , which are incorporated herein by reference. The information incorporated herein by reference to the  Report of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee  is deemed furnished hereunder.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following portions of the  Election of Directors 
section:  Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Holders of 5% or More of Outstanding Stock ,  Beneficial Ownership of Shares by Directors and Executive Officers  and  Executive Compensation   Equity Compensation Plans
Table , which are incorporated herein by reference.       ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE       The information required by this Item is included in the Proxy in the following portions of the  Election of
Directors  section:  Corporate Governance Matters   Director Independence and   Business Relationships and Related Party Transactions Policy  and  Board Meetings and Board Committee Information   Audit Committee
and   Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and   Human Resources and Compensation Committee , which are incorporated herein by reference.       ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES       The information required by this Item
is included in the Proxy in the following portion of the  Election of Directors  section:  Audit Fees, Audit Related Fees, Tax Fees and All Other Fees , which is incorporated herein by reference.

BNY Mellon 41

PART IV    

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES    

(a)  
     
  The financial statements, schedules and exhibits required for this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference as indicated in the following index. Page numbers refer
to pages of the Annual Report for items (1) Financial Statements and (c) Other Financial Data.   

(1)  
      
   Financial Statements   
      
   Page No.    

Consolidated Income Statement  
      
  88 and 89   

Consolidated Balance Sheet   
      
  90   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows  
      
  91   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity  
      
  92 through 94   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
      
  95 through 161   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
      
  162   

Selected Quarterly Data  
      
  80   

(2)   
      
   Exhibits   

See (b) below.  

(b)   
     
  The exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits on pages 44 through 56 hereof are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this
Item.   

(c)   
     
     Other Financial Data       
  None.    

42 BNY Mellon   

SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, BNY Mellon has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.        

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation   

By:  
     
  /s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

Gerald L. Hassell   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

DATED: February 28, 2012   
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of BNY Mellon and in the capacities and on the date indicated.       

Signature   

Capacities    

By:  
     
    /s/ Gerald L. Hassell   

Director and Principal Executive Officer   

Gerald L. Hassell   

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   

Principal Financial Officer   

Thomas P. Gibbons   

Chief Financial Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ John A. Park   

Principal Accounting Officer   

John A. Park   

Controller   

Ruth E. Bruch; Nicholas M. Donofrio;  

Directors   
 
  Edmund F. Kelly; Richard J. Kogan;  

Michael J. Kowalski; John A. Luke, Jr.;  

Mark A. Nordenberg; Catherine A. Rein;  

William C. Richardson; Samuel C. Scott III;  

John P. Surma; and Wesley W. von Schack  

By:  
     
    /s/ Arlie R. Nogay   

DATED: February 28, 2012   

Arlie R. Nogay   

Attorney-in-fact   

BNY Mellon 43

INDEX TO EXHIBITS    
      Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the
SEC, BNY Mellon has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or
parties to such agreements and (i) may have been qualified by disclosures made to such other party or parties, (ii) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are
subject to more recent developments, which may not be fully reflected in BNY Mellon s public disclosure, (iii) may reflect the allocation of risk among the parties to such agreements and (iv) may apply materiality standards different
from what may be viewed as material to investors. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe BNY Mellon s actual state of affairs at the date hereof and should not be relied upon.   

44 BNY Mellon   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.     
         BNY Mellon 45

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         46 BNY Mellon   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         BNY Mellon 47

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         48 BNY Mellon   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         BNY Mellon 49

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
  ** Non-shareholder approved compensatory plan pursuant to which BNY Mellon s Common Stock may be issued to employees
of BNY Mellon. No executive officers or directors of BNY Mellon are permitted to participate in this plan.   
         50 BNY Mellon   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

10.50*  
      
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Item 1.01 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) as filed with the Commission on February 18, 2005, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.51*  
      
  Description regarding administration and compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Item 1.01(1) to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) as filed with the Commission on December 21, 2005, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.52*  
      
  Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Mellon Financial Corporation.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) as filed with the Commission on January 27, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.53*  
      
  Mellon Financial Corporation Long-Term Profit Incentive Plan (2004) Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, dated February 20, 2007.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.98 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 000-52710) for the year ended December 31, 2007, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.54*  
      
  Form of Indemnification Agreement with Directors and Senior Officers of Mellon Financial Corporation and Mellon Bank, N.A.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit B to Mellon Financial Corporation s Proxy Statement (File No. 001-07410) dated March 13, 1987, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.55*  
      
  Letter Agreement entered into by Mellon Financial Corporation and Robert P. Kelly dated January 30, 2006, accepted January 31, 2006.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) as filed with the Commission on February 6, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.   

10.56*  
      
  Amendment to Agreements between Mellon Financial Corporation and Robert P. Kelly dated December 22, 2006.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.51 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 001-07410) for the year ended December 31, 2006, and incorporated
herein by reference.   

10.57*  
      
  Description regarding amendments entered into on December 22, 2006 by Robert P. Kelly and Mellon Financial Corporation to his Change in Control Severance Agreement, employment
letter agreement and equity award agreement.  
      
  Previously filed as Item 5.02 to Mellon Financial Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-07410) as filed with the Commission on December 29, 2006, and
incorporated herein by reference.   
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         BNY Mellon 51

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         52 BNY Mellon   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         BNY Mellon 53

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     
       
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         54 BNY Mellon   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS    (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

10.84*  
      
  Amendment to Letter Agreement, dated March 1, 2011, between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Robert P. Kelly.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-52710) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.85*  
      
  Terms of Employment agreed to by The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Curtis Y. Arledge, dated July 26, 2010, and accepted July 29, 2010.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 000-52710) for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.86*  
      
  The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan.  
      
  Previously filed as Appendix A to the Company s definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A (File No. 000-52710) filed on March 11, 2011, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.87*  
      
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation     Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.   
      
  Previously filed as Appendix B to the Company s definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A (File No. 000-52710) filed on March 11, 2011, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

10.88*  
      
  Letter Agreement between The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and Robert P. Kelly, dated August 31, 2011.  
      
  Previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-52710) as filed with the Commission on September 2, 2011, and incorporated herein by
reference.   

12.1  
      
  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

13.1  
      
  All portions of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders that are incorporated herein by reference. The remaining portions are furnished for the
information of the SEC and are not  filed  as part of this filing.  
      
  Filed and furnished herewith.   

21.1  
      
  Primary subsidiaries of the Company.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

23.1  
      
  Consent of KPMG LLP.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

24.1  
      
  Power of Attorney.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

31.1  
      
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   
    * Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.   
         BNY Mellon 55

INDEX TO EXHIBITS  (continued)     

Exhibit   
      
    Description   
      
    Method of Filing    

31.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

32.1  
      
  Certification of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

32.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
      
  Furnished herewith.   

101.INS  
      
  XBRL Instance Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   

101.PRE   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  
      
  Filed herewith.   
 
         56 BNY Mellon   

<EX-12.1>
 2
 d260593dex121.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12.1        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation        

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   The proportion deemed representative of the interest factor.      

(c)   
   Earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $2,208 million.      

</EX-12.1>

<EX-13.1>
 3
 d260593dex131.htm
 ALL PORTIONS OF 2011 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

All portions of 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders 

Exhibit 13.1       FINANCIAL  SECTION        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION
       2011 Annual Report        Table of Contents        

Page   

Financial Summary     

2  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:    

Results of Operations:   

General    

4  

Overview    

5  

Key 2011 events    

5  

Summary of financial results    

6  

Fee and other revenue    

8  

Net interest revenue    

11  

Noninterest expense    

14  

Income taxes    

15  

Review of businesses    

15  

International operations    

25  

Critical accounting estimates    

29  

Consolidated balance sheet review    

35  

Liquidity and dividends    

47  

Commitments and obligations    

52  

Off-balance sheet arrangements    

52  

Capital    

53  

Risk management    

57  

Trading activities and risk management    

61  

Foreign exchange and other trading    

62  

Asset/liability management    

63  

Business continuity    

64  

Supplemental Information:   

Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures (unaudited)    

66  

Rate/volume analysis (unaudited)    

70  

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments    

71  

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    

80  

Forward-looking Statements    

81  

Glossary    

83  

Report of Management on Internal Control Over   Financial
Reporting    

86  

Report of Independent Registered Public   Accounting Firm    

87  

Corporate Information      

Inside back cover  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      

(c)   
   Diluted earnings per common share for 2009 was calculated using average basic shares. Adding back the dilutive shares would be anti-dilutive.

(d)   
   Represents the securities on loan managed by the Investment Services business.      
      
  2     BNY Mellon   

BNY
Mellon     3   
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
   Financial Summary  (continued)         

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(c)   
   See  Supplemental Information  beginning on page 66 for a calculation of these ratios.      

(d)   
   Includes fee revenue, net interest revenue and income of consolidated investment management funds, net of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.

(e)   
   Excluding investment securities losses, the percentage of non-U.S. fee revenue was 32%.      

(f)   
   Excluding the SILO/LILO charge, the percentage of non-U.S. fee and net interest revenue was 32% and the net interest margin was 2.21%.      

(h)   
   Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio (Non-GAAP) reflects our current interpretation of the Basel III rules. Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common
equity ratio could change in the future as the U.S. regulatory agencies implement Basel III or if our businesses change.      

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
   Results of Operations        

General       In this Annual Report, references to  our,   we,   us,   BNY Mellon,  the  Company  and similar terms for periods on or after July 1, 2007 refer to
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, and references to  our,   we,   us,  the  Company,  and similar terms prior to July 1, 2007 refer to The Bank of New York
Company, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The term  Parent  refers to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation but not its subsidiaries.      BNY Mellon s actual results of future operations may differ from those estimated or anticipated in certain forward-looking statements contained herein for reasons which are discussed below and under
the heading  Forward-looking Statements.  When used in this Annual Report, words such as  estimate,   forecast,   project,   anticipate,   confident,   target, 
 expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could,   should,   may,   will,   strategy, 
 synergies,   opportunities,   trends,  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements in addition to statements specifically identified as forward-looking statements.   
  Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the Glossary.      The following should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.       How we reported results       All information for 2011 in this Annual Report is reported on a
net income basis. All information for 2010 and 2009 in this Annual Report is reported on a continuing operations basis, unless otherwise noted. For a description of discontinued operations, see Note 4 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.      Throughout this Annual Report, certain measures, which are noted as  Non-GAAP measures,  exclude certain items. BNY
Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period-to-period comparisons, using measures that relate to our ability to enhance revenues and limit expenses in circumstances where such matters are within
our control. We also present the net interest margin on a fully taxable equivalent ( FTE ) basis. We believe that this presentation allows for

comparison of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources and is consistent with industry practice. Certain immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior periods to place them
on a basis comparable with the current period presentation. See  Supplemental information   Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures  beginning on page 66 for a reconciliation of financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP
to adjusted Non-GAAP financial measures.       Organization of our business       In the first quarter of 2011, BNY Mellon realigned its internal reporting structure and business presentation to focus on its two principal businesses, Investment Management and Investment Services. The
realignment reflects management s approach to assessing performance and decisions regarding resource allocations. Investment Management includes the former Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses. Investment Services includes the
former Asset Servicing, Issuer Services and Clearing Services businesses as well as the Cash Management business previously included in the former Treasury Services business. The Other segment includes credit-related activities previously included
in the Treasury Services business, the lease financing portfolio, corporate treasury activities, including our investment securities portfolio, our equity investments in Wing Hang Bank and ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead. The
income statement has been changed to reflect this realignment as follows:       

Investment management and performance fees consist of the former asset and wealth management fee revenue; and      

Investment services fees consist of the former securities servicing fees, including asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services, as well as
treasury services fee revenue.         All prior periods were reclassified. The reclassifications did not affect the results of
operations.       Merger with Mellon Financial       On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation ( Mellon Financial ) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (together with its consolidated
subsidiaries,  BNY Mellon ), with BNY Mellon   

4     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

being the surviving entity (the  2007 Merger ). Results for 2007 reflect six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.   
     Overview       BNY Mellon is
the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE symbol: BK). BNY Mellon is a global financial services company focused on helping clients manage and service their financial assets, operating in 36 countries and serving more than
100 markets. BNY Mellon is a leading provider of financial services for institutions, corporations and high-net-worth individuals, offering superior investment management and investment services through a worldwide client-focused team. At Dec. 31,
2011, we had $25.8 trillion in assets under custody and administration and $1.26 trillion in assets under management, serviced $11.8 trillion in outstanding debt and processed global payments averaging $1.5 trillion per day.   
  BNY Mellon s businesses benefit from the global growth in financial assets and from the globalization of the investment process. Over the long term,
our goals are focused on deploying capital to accelerate the long-term growth of our businesses and achieving superior total returns to shareholders by generating first quartile earnings per share growth over time relative to a group of peer
companies.      Key components of our strategy include: providing superior client service versus peers; strong investment performance relative to
investment benchmarks; above-median revenue growth relative to peer companies; increasing the percentage of revenue and income derived from outside the United States; successful integration of acquired businesses; competitive margins; and positive
operating leverage. We have established Basel I Tier 1 capital as our principal capital measure and have established a targeted ratio of Basel I Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 10%. We expect to update our capital targets once new
regulatory capital guidelines are finalized.         Key 2011 events        Sale of Shareowner Services       On Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold its Shareowner Services
business. The sales price of $550 million resulted in a pre-tax gain of $98 million. We recorded an immaterial after-tax gain primarily due to the

write-off of non-tax deductible goodwill associated with the business. The transaction enhanced BNY Mellon s capital position, adding approximately 30 basis points to our estimated Basel III
Tier 1 common equity ratio at Dec. 31, 2011.       Acquisition of Penson Financial Services    
  On Nov. 30, 2011, we acquired Penson Financial Services Australia Pty Ltd ( Penson ), a clearing firm located in Australia, in a $33 million
share purchase transaction. Penson offers execution and clearing services and provides processing for local exchange-traded equities and exchange-traded options in Australia. The results of Penson are included in the Investment Services business.
      Continuing global economic uncertainty       The global financial markets and economy remain affected by a variety of concerns, including questions about the creditworthiness of sovereign issuers within Europe. Sovereign or financial institution
defaults, political uncertainties or credit downgrades could lead to disruptions in the money markets, changes in foreign exchange values, reductions in the attractiveness and value of European assets, and/or an increase in borrowing costs for
consumers and companies in Europe.      During 2011, the continued economic uncertainty in the global markets contributed to a significant
increase in our balance sheet. Client deposits increased $74 billion, which drove a $78 billion increase in total assets. In response to this continued uncertainty, we reduced exposure to higher risk countries and increased our exposure to central
banks. Additionally, we continued to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet with a ratio of liquid funds to total assets of 42% at Dec. 31, 2011, while also reducing our exposure to large global financial institutions.   
   Change in executive management    
  Effective Aug. 31, 2011, Robert P. Kelly resigned as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director. Also effective on Aug. 31, 2011, Gerald L. Hassell,
BNY Mellon s President and a board member since 1998, was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.       Acquisition
of Talon Asset Management       On July 1, 2011, BNY Mellon acquired the wealth management operations of Chicago-based Talon Asset

BNY
Mellon     5   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Management ( Talon ). Talon manages more than $800 million in assets for wealthy families and institutions. The acquisition of Talon represents BNY Mellon s first wealth management
office in Chicago, the third largest wealth management market in the U.S. The results of Talon are included in the Investment Management business.       Dividend increase and share repurchase program       In March 2011, BNY Mellon received
confirmation that the Federal Reserve did not object to its comprehensive capital plan which provides for capital actions, including a dividend increase and share repurchases. Accordingly, on March 22, 2011, the board of directors authorized a
44% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.13 per common share.      In 2011, we repurchased 34.8 million shares in the open
market, at an average price of $24.00 per share for a total of $835 million. In 2012, we continued to repurchase shares under the 2011 capital plan. Through Feb. 27, 2012, we repurchased 17.3 million shares in the open market, at an average
price of $21.53 per share for a total of $371 million.         Summary of financial results    
  We reported net income applicable to common shareholders of BNY Mellon of $2.5 billion, or $2.03 per diluted common share in 2011 compared with $2.5
billion, or $2.05 per diluted common share in 2010. In 2009, we reported a net loss applicable to common shareholders of BNY Mellon of $1.4 billion, or $1.16 per diluted common share. In 2010, net income applicable to common shareholders on a
continuing operations basis was $2.6 billion, or $2.11 per diluted common share. In 2009, we incurred a net loss applicable to common shareholders on a continuing operations basis of $1.1 billion, or $0.93 per diluted common share.   
   Highlights of 2011 results        

Dec. 31, 2010. The increase was primarily driven by net new business. (See the  Investment Management business  beginning on page 18).      

Investment services fees totaled $6.8 billion in 2011 compared with $6.1 billion in 2010. The increase primarily resulted from the full year impact of
the acquisitions of Global Investment Servicing ( GIS ) on July 1, 2010 and BHF Asset Servicing GmbH ( BAS ) on Aug. 2, 2010 (collectively,  the Acquisitions ), and net new business, partially offset by higher
money market fee waivers. (See the  Investment Services business  beginning on page 21).      

Investment management and performance fees totaled $3.0 billion in 2011 compared with $2.9 billion in 2010. The increase was driven by net new business
and higher average equity markets, largely offset by higher money market fee waivers. (See the  Investment Management business  beginning on page 18).      

Investment income and other revenue totaled $455 million in 2011 compared with $467 million in 2010. The decrease primarily resulted from lower foreign
currency translation, the write-down of an equity investment, lower lease residual gains and lower private equity investment revenue, primarily offset by the gain on the sale of Shareowner Services and gains related to loans held-for-sale retained
from a previously divested bank subsidiary. (See  Fee and other revenue  beginning on page 8).      

Net interest revenue totaled $3.0 billion in 2011 compared with $2.9 billion in 2010 and the net interest margin (FTE) was 1.36% in 2011 compared with
1.70% in 2010. The trends of net interest revenue and net interest margin (FTE) primarily reflect growth in client deposits, which were placed with central banks, purchases of high quality securities and an increased level of secured loans,
partially offset by lower spreads resulting from the continued impact of the lower global interest rate environment. (See  Net interest revenue  beginning on page 11).

6     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

The provision for credit losses was $1 million in 2011 compared with $11 million in 2010. The lower provision in 2011 primarily resulted from an
improvement in the loan portfolio and a decline in criticized assets. (See  Asset quality and allowance for credit losses  beginning on page 42).      

Noninterest expense totaled $11.1 billion in 2011 compared with $10.2 billion in 2010. The increase primarily reflects the full-year impact of the
Acquisitions, higher staff expense, volume-related expenses, and software expense, as well as higher professional, legal and other purchased services. Noninterest expense in 2011 also includes restructuring charges of $89 million. (See
 Noninterest expense  beginning on page 14).      

Unrealized net of tax gains on our total investment securities portfolio were $420 million at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $150 million at Dec. 31,
2010. The improvement in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by improved valuations of agency RMBS and U.S. Treasury securities, partially offset by declines in valuations of certain non-agency residential mortgage-backed
securities. (See  Investment securities  beginning on page 36).      

At Dec. 31, 2011, our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 7.1% , an improvement of more than 100 basis points from March 31, 2011.
The improvement was driven by earnings retention, the reduction of goodwill and intangible assets related to the sale of Shareowner Services and paydowns on sub-investment grade securities, partially offset by share repurchases. (See
 Capital  beginning on page 53).      

Results of 2010       In 2010, we reported net income applicable to common shareholders, including discontinued operations, of $2.5 billion, or $2.05 per diluted common share, or on a continuing operations basis, net income of
$2.6 billion, or $2.11 per diluted common share. These results were primarily driven by:       

Investment services fee revenue totaled $6.1 billion in 2010 reflecting the Acquisitions, higher market values and net new business.

Investment management and performance fees totaled $2.9 billion in 2010 reflecting higher market values globally, the full year impact of the
acquisition of Insight Investment Management Limited ( Insight ) and new business.      

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue totaled $886 million in 2010 driven by lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue and lower foreign
exchange revenue.      

Net interest revenue totaled $2.9 billion in 2010 as a higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio and higher interest-earning
assets were offset by lower spreads.      

Noninterest expense totaled $10.2 billion in 2010 primarily driven by the impact of the Acquisitions, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition
and higher compensation expense.          Results for 2009       In 2009, we reported a net loss of $1.4 billion, or $1.16 per diluted common share, or on a continuing operations basis, a net loss of $1.1 billion, or $0.93 per diluted common share. These results were
primarily driven by:       

Investment securities (pre-tax) net losses of $5.4 billion in 2009 reflecting the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio.

A provision for credit losses of $332 million in 2009, reflecting a higher number of downgrades and deterioration in certain industry sectors.

Merger and integration ( M I ) expenses of $233 million (pre-tax).      

An after-tax redemption charge of $196.5 million related to the repurchase of the Series B preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the
Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ) Capital Purchase Program and $86.5 million for dividends/accretion on the Series B preferred stock.

BNY
Mellon     7   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Results for 2009, compared with 2008, also included lower securities servicing revenue, lower investment

management and performance fees and lower foreign exchange and other trading revenue.

Fee and other
revenue        

Fee revenue       Fee revenue increased 7% in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily reflecting the full year impact of the Acquisitions, higher average market values and higher net new business, partially offset by higher
money market fee waivers and lower trading volumes.       Investment services fees       Investment services fees were impacted by the following compared with 2010:       

Asset servicing fees increased 20%, primarily driven by the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values, net new business and higher
securities lending revenue due to wider spreads.      

Issuer services fees decreased 1% as higher Depositary Receipts revenue driven by higher corporate action fees was more than offset by lower Corporate
Trust fee revenue, reflecting continued weakness in the structured debt markets and lower money market-related distribution fees, and lower Shareowner Services revenue, reflecting lower corporate action fees.

Clearing services fees increased 15%, primarily driven by the full-year impact of the GIS acquisition, and new business, partially offset by lower
trading volumes and higher money market fee waivers.      

Treasury services fees increased 1% compared with 2010, reflecting the full-year impact of the GIS acquisition, primarily offset by lower funds
transfer, cash management and liquidity management fees.         See the  Investment Services business  in  Review
of businesses  for additional details.       Investment management and performance fees    
  Investment management and performance fees totaled $3.0 billion in 2011, an increase of 5% compared with 2010. The increase reflects higher average
market values and net new business, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower performance fees. Performance fees were $93 million in 2011 and $121 million in 2010.      Total AUM for the Investment Management business was $1.26 trillion at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $1.17 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase was

8     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

primarily due to net new business and improved market values throughout 2011. Long-term inflows in 2011 were $83 billion and benefited from strength in fixed income and equity-indexed products.
     See the  Investment Management business  in  Review of businesses  for additional details regarding the drivers of
investment management and performance fees.       Foreign exchange and other trading revenue    

(a)   
   Used as economic hedges of loans.      
  Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased $38 million, or 4%, from $886 million in 2010. In 2011, foreign exchange revenue totaled $761
million, a decrease of 3% compared with 2010, driven by lower volatility and spreads, partially offset by higher volumes. Foreign exchange revenue continues to be impacted by increasing competitive pressures. Other trading revenue totaled $87
million in 2011, a decrease of 12% compared with 2010, largely due to lower fixed income trading revenue. Foreign exchange revenue is primarily reported in the Investment Services business. Other trading revenue is primarily reported in the Other
segment.      The foreign exchange trading engaged in by the Company generates revenues, which are influenced by the volume of client transactions
and the spread realized on these transactions. The level of volume and spreads is affected by market volatility, the level of cross-border assets held in custody for clients, the level and nature of underlying cross-border investments and other
transactions undertaken by corporate and institutional clients. These revenues also depend on our ability to manage the risk associated with the currency transactions we execute. A substantial majority of our foreign exchange trades is undertaken
for our custody clients in transactions where BNY Mellon acts as principal, and not as an agent or broker. As a principal, we earn a profit, if any, based on our ability to risk manage the aggregate foreign currency positions that we buy and sell on
a daily basis. Generally speaking, custody clients enter into foreign exchange transactions in one of three

ways:  negotiated trading  with BNY Mellon, BNY Mellon s  standing instruction program , or transactions with  third-party foreign exchange providers .  Negotiated
trading  generally refers to orders entered by the client or the client s investment manager, with all decisions related to the transaction, usually on a transaction-specific basis, made by the client or its investment manager. Such
transactions may be initiated by (i) contacting one of our sales desks to negotiate the rate for specific transactions, (ii) using electronic trading platforms, or (iii) electing other methods such as those pursuant to a benchmarking
arrangement, in which pricing is determined by an objective market rate plus a pre-negotiated spread. The preponderance of the notional value of our trading volume with clients is in negotiated trading. Our  standing instruction program 
provides custody clients and their investment managers with an end-to-end solution that allows them to shift to BNY Mellon the cost, management and execution risk, often in small transactions not otherwise eligible for a more favorable rate or
transactions in restricted and difficult to trade currencies. We incur substantial costs in supporting the global operational infrastructure required to administer the standing instruction program; on a per-transaction basis, the costs associated
with the standing instruction program exceed the costs associated with negotiated trading. Our custody clients choose to use  third-party foreign exchange providers  other than BNY Mellon for a substantial majority of their U.S. dollar
equivalent volume foreign exchange transactions.      We typically price negotiated trades for our custody clients at a spread over our estimation
of the current market rate for a particular currency or based on an agreed third-party benchmark. With respect to our standing instruction program, we typically assign a price derived from the daily pricing range for marketable-size foreign exchange
transactions (generally more than $1 million) executed between global financial institutions, known as the  interbank range.  Using the interbank range for the given day, we typically price purchases of currencies at or near the low end of
this range and sales of currencies at or near the high end of this range. For the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, our total revenue for all types of foreign exchange trading transactions was $761 million, which is approximately 5% of our total revenue.
Approximately 40% of our foreign exchange revenue resulted from foreign exchange transactions undertaken through our standing instruction program.

BNY
Mellon     9   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Distribution and servicing fees       Distribution and servicing fees earned from mutual funds are primarily based on average assets in the funds and the sales of funds that we manage or administer and are primarily reported in the Investment
Management business. These fees, which include 12b-1 fees, fluctuate with the overall level of net sales, the relative mix of sales between share classes, the funds  market values and money market fee waivers.   
  The $23 million decrease in distribution and servicing fee revenue in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily reflects increased money market fee waivers as
well as equity market changes. The impact of distribution and servicing fees on income in any one period is partially offset by distribution and servicing expense paid to other financial intermediaries to cover their costs for distribution and
servicing of mutual funds. Distribution and servicing expense is recorded as noninterest expense on the income statement.   
   Financing-related fees    
  Financing-related fees, which are primarily reported in the Other segment, include capital markets fees, loan commitment fees and credit-related fees.
Financing-related fees decreased $25 million from 2010 primarily as a result of lower capital markets and credit-related fees, primarily reflecting our strategy to reduce targeted risk exposure.   
   Investment income        
    Investment income, which is primarily reported in the Other segment and Investment Management business, includes income
from insurance contracts, lease residual gains and losses, equity investment income (loss), private equity investments and gains and losses on seed capital investments. The decrease, compared with 2010, primarily reflects lower lease residual,
private equity and seed capital gains.   
 
    Other revenue        
    Other revenue includes asset-related gains, expense reimbursements from joint ventures, economic value payments and other
income (loss). Asset-related gains include loan, real estate and other asset dispositions. Expense reimbursements from joint ventures relate to expenses incurred by BNY Mellon on behalf of joint ventures. Economic value payments relate to deposits
from the GIS acquisition that have not yet transferred to BNY Mellon. Other income (loss) primarily includes foreign currency remeasurement, other investments and various miscellaneous revenues.   
  Total other revenue increased $38 million compared with 2010, primarily reflecting the gain on the sale of Shareowner Services and asset-related gains on
loans held-for-sale retained from a previously divested bank subsidiary, partially offset by net losses on foreign currency remeasurement.   
   Net securities gains (losses)       Net
securities gains totaled $48 million in 2011 compared with $27 million in 2010.      The following table details securities gains (losses) by type
of security. See  Consolidated balance sheet review  for further information on the investment securities portfolio.       

10     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    2010 compared with 2009       Fee revenue increased 6% in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of the Acquisitions, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, improved market values and new business,
partially offset by lower foreign exchange and other trading revenue, lower distribution and servicing fees and lower securities lending revenue.      Net securities gains totaled $27 million in 2010 compared with losses of $5.4 billion in 2009. The loss in 2009 primarily resulted from a charge related to restructuring the investment securities
portfolio.      Fee and other revenue was also impacted by the following:   

Investment services fees increased reflecting the impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values, net new business and higher Depositary Receipts
revenue resulting from higher issuance, corporate action and service fees. This increase

was partially offset by lower Corporate Trust fee revenue, reflecting continued weakness in the structured debt markets and lower money market related distribution fees, lower Shareowner Services
revenue, reflecting lower corporate action fees, and lower securities lending revenue resulting from narrower spreads and lower loan balances.      

Investment management and performance fees increased reflecting improved market values, the Insight acquisition and the impact of net new business.

Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased largely due to lower fixed income and derivatives trading revenue.      

Investment income increased reflecting higher equity investment revenue and higher private equity gains, partially offset by lower lease residual and
seed capital gains.      

Total other revenue increased primarily reflecting higher foreign currency remeasurements, partially offset by lower asset-related gains.

Net interest
revenue        

Net interest revenue totaled $3.0 billion in 2011, a 2% increase compared with 2010. The net interest
margin (FTE) was 1.36% in 2011 compared with 1.70% in 2010. The trends of net interest revenue and net interest margin (FTE) primarily reflect growth in client deposits, which were placed with central banks, purchases of high quality securities and
an increased level of secured loans, partially offset by lower spreads resulting from the continued impact of the lower global interest rate environment.      Average interest-earning assets were $222 billion in 2011, compared with $173 billion in 2010. The increase in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily occurred in the second half of 2011 and was driven by
higher client deposits as a function of the European debt crisis and continued economic uncertainty in the global markets. Average total securities increased to $74 billion in 2011, up from $61 billion in 2010, reflecting our strategy to invest in
high-quality, government-guaranteed securities, and to a lesser degree, state and political subdivisions and
asset-  

backed collateralized loan obligations ( CLOs ). Average interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks increased to $47 billion, up from $14 billion in
2010, reflecting higher client deposits.       2010 compared with 2009       Net interest revenue totaled $2.9 billion in 2010, essentially unchanged compared with 2009. Net interest revenue in 2010 reflected a higher yield on the restructured investment securities portfolio, net
of lost interest on the securities sold and higher average interest-earning assets, primarily offset by narrower spreads.      The net interest
margin (FTE) was 1.70% in 2010 compared with 1.82% in 2009. The lower net interest margin (FTE) in 2010 was driven by lower spreads and higher interest-earning assets in a lower-rate environment, which more than offset the higher yield on the
restructured investment securities portfolio.   

BNY
Mellon     11   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Includes fees of $39 million in 2011. Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the cash basis, is included in
interest.      

(c)   
   Includes the Cayman Islands branch office.      
      
  12     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Includes fees of $46 million in 2010 and $43 million in 2009. Non-accrual loans are included in the average loan balance; the associated income, recognized on the
cash basis, is included in interest.      

(c)   
   Average balances and rates are impacted by allocations made to match assets of discontinued operations with liabilities of discontinued operations.

(d)   
   In 2011, certain money market rate accounts were reclassified to other time deposits. All prior periods have been restated.      

(e)   
   Includes the Cayman Islands branch office.      
         BNY
Mellon     13   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
      Noninterest expense    

(a)   
   Excluding investment securities gains (losses), total staff expense as a percentage of total revenue (Non-GAAP) was 36% in 2009.      

Total noninterest expense increased $942 million, or 9%, compared with 2010 primarily reflecting the
full-year impact of the Acquisitions, which impacted nearly all expense categories and accounted for nearly 50% of the increase year-over-year. The increase in noninterest expense also reflects higher staff expense, volume-related expenses and
software expense, as well as higher professional, legal and other purchased services.       Staff expense    
  Given our mix of fee-based businesses, which are staffed with high-quality professionals, staff expense comprised 55% of total noninterest expense in
2011 and 54% in 2010, excluding amortization of intangible assets, restructuring charges and M I expenses.      Staff expense is comprised of:

compensation expense, which includes:      

salary expense, primarily driven by headcount;      

the cost of temporary services and overtime; and      

severance expense;      

incentive expense, which includes:      

additional compensation earned under a wide range of sales commission and incentive

plans designed to reward a combination of individual, business unit and corporate performance goals; as well as,      

stock-based compensation expense; and      

employee benefit expense, primarily medical benefits, payroll taxes, pension and other retirement benefits.      
  The increase in staff expense compared with 2010 primarily reflects:       

the full-year impact of the Acquisitions;      

the annual employee merit increase effective in the second quarter of 2011;      

higher pension expense;      

higher incentives; and      

a $22 million charge as a result of a change in executive management.          Non-staff expense       Non-staff expense includes certain expenses that vary with the levels
of business activity and levels of expensed business investments, fixed infrastructure costs and expenses associated with corporate activities related to technology, compliance, legal, litigation, productivity initiatives and business development.

14     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Non-staff expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, restructuring charges and M I expenses,
totaled $4.8 billion in 2011 compared with $4.4 billion in 2010. The increase primarily reflects:       

the full-year impact of the Acquisitions;      

higher volume-related expenses;      

higher software expense resulting from new assets placed into service; and,      

higher legal costs.         These
increases were partially offset by state investment tax credits received in 2011.      Pre-tax restructuring charges of $89 million in 2011
primarily related to efficiency initiatives to transform operations, technology and corporate services. The efficiency initiatives are expected to produce annualized pre-tax savings of $240   $260 million in 2012. For additional information on
restructuring charges, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      In 2011, we incurred $91 million of M I expenses
primarily related to the integration of the Acquisitions.      The financial services industry has seen a continuing increase in the level of
litigation activity. As a result, we anticipate our legal and litigation costs to continue at elevated levels. For additional information on litigation matters, see Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   2010 compared with 2009       Total
noninterest expense was $10.2 billion in 2010, an increase of $0.6 billion or 7% compared with 2009. The increase primarily reflects the impact of the Acquisitions and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, both of which impacted nearly
all expense categories and higher litigation expense. Noninterest expense in 2010 also included M I expenses of $139 million related to the Acquisitions and the 2007 Merger.         Income taxes       BNY Mellon recorded an income tax provision of $1.0 billion
(29.0% effective tax rate) in 2011 compared with an income tax provision, on a continuing operations basis, of $1.0 billion (28.3% effective tax rate) in 2010 and an income tax benefit, on a continuing operations basis, of $1.4 billion (63.2%
effective tax rate) in 2009. Excluding the impact of investment securities losses, M I expenses, restructuring charges and benefits from discrete tax items, the effective tax rate for 2009 was 29.7%.

We expect the effective tax rate to be approximately 29-30% in the first quarter of 2012.   
     Review of businesses    
  We have an internal information system that produces performance data along product and service lines for our two principal businesses and the Other
segment.       Organization of our business       In the first quarter of 2011, BNY Mellon realigned its internal reporting structure and business presentation to focus on its two principal businesses, Investment Management and Investment Services. See
 General   Organization of our business  for additional information. All prior periods presented in this Annual Report are presented accordingly.      Also in the first quarter of 2011, we revised the net interest revenue for our businesses to reflect a new approach which adjusts our transfer pricing methodology to better reflect the value of certain
domestic deposits. All prior period business results have been restated to reflect this revision. This revision did not impact the consolidated results.      For information on the accounting principles of our businesses, the primary types of revenue generated by each business and how our businesses are presented and analyzed, see Note 26 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.      Information on our businesses is reported on a continuing operations basis for 2010 and 2009. See Note 4
to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.      The results of our businesses may be
influenced by client activities that vary by quarter. In the second quarter, we typically experience an increase in securities lending fees due to an increase in demand to borrow securities outside of the United States. In the third quarter,
depositary receipts revenue is typically higher due to an increased level of client dividend payments paid in the quarter. Also in the third quarter, volume-related fees may decline due to reduced client activity. In our Investment Management
business, performance fees are typically higher in the fourth quarter, as the fourth quarter represents the end of the measurement period for many of the performance fee eligible relationships.   
  The results of our businesses in 2011 were driven by the following factors. The Investment Management business benefited from higher average equity
markets and net new business partially offset by higher money   

BNY
Mellon     15   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

market fee waivers and lower performance fees. Results in the Investment Services business benefited from the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, net new business, higher Depositary Receipts
revenue, the pre-tax gain on the sale of the Shareowner Services business and an increased level of secured loans, partially offset by lower foreign exchange fee revenue, higher money market fee waivers and lower trading volumes. NYSE and NASDAQ
share volumes decreased 10% in 2011 compared with 2010.      Net securities gains (losses) and restructuring charges are recorded in the Other
segment. In addition, M I expenses are a corporate level item and are therefore recorded in the Other segment.

Net interest revenue was impacted by growth in client deposits and loans, partially offset by lower spreads
resulting from the continued impact of the low interest rate environment.      Noninterest expense increased compared to 2010 reflecting the
full-year impact of the Acquisitions, restructuring charges related to efficiency initiatives to transform operations, technology and corporate services, higher volume-related expenses and higher software costs.   
  The following table presents the value of certain market indices at period end and on an average basis.

(a)   
   Period end.      

The period end S P 500 Index at Dec. 31, 2011 was unchanged versus Dec. 31, 2010. The period end FTSE
100 Index decreased 6% at Dec. 31, 2011 versus Dec. 31, 2010. On a daily average basis, the S P 500 Index increased 11% and the FTSE 100 Index increased 4% in 2011 versus 2010.      Fee revenue in Investment Management, and to a lesser extent Investment Services, is impacted by the value of market indices. At Dec. 31, 2011, using the S P 500 Index as a proxy for the global equity

markets, we estimate that a 100-point change in the value of the S P 500 Index, sustained for one year, would impact fee revenue by approximately 1% and fully diluted earnings per common
share by $0.03 to $0.05. If global equity markets over- or under-perform the S P 500 Index, the impact to fee revenue and earnings per share could be different.      The following consolidating schedules show the contribution of our businesses to our overall profitability.

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $200 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $50 million, for a net
impact of $150 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $50 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      
      
  16     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $226 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $59 million, for a net
impact of $167 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $59 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      
 
         BNY
Mellon     17   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Investment Management business    

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes the impact of the consolidated investment management funds. See  Supplemental Information  beginning on page 66.
Additionally, other revenue includes asset servicing, clearing services and treasury services revenue.      

(b)   
   Distribution and servicing expense is netted with the distribution and servicing revenue for the purpose of this calculation of pre-tax operating margin.
Distribution and servicing expense totaled $412 million, $376 million and $393 million, respectively.          

(a)   
   Excludes securities lending cash management assets.      
      
  18     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Business description       Our Investment Management business is comprised of our affiliated investment management boutiques and wealth management business.      Our Investment Management business is responsible, through various subsidiaries, for U.S. and non-U.S. retail, intermediary and institutional investment management, distribution and related services. The
investment management boutiques offer a broad range of equity, fixed income, cash and alternative/overlay products. In addition to the investment subsidiaries, this business includes BNY Mellon Asset Management International, which is responsible
for the investment management and distribution of non-U.S. products, and the Dreyfus Corporation and its affiliates, which are responsible for U.S. investment management and distribution of retail mutual funds, separate accounts and annuities. We
are one of the world s largest asset managers with a top-10 position in both the United States and Europe and 11th position globally.   
  Through BNY Mellon Wealth Management, we offer a full array of investment management, wealth and estate planning and private banking solutions to help
clients protect, grow and transfer their wealth through an extensive network of offices in the U.S., Canada, UK and Asia. Clients include high-net-worth individuals and families, charitable gift programs, endowments and foundations and related
entities. BNY Mellon Wealth Management is ranked as the nation s seventh largest wealth manager and third largest private bank.      The
results of the Investment Management business are driven by the period-end, average level and mix of assets managed and the level of activity in client accounts. The overall level of AUM for a given period is determined by:   

the beginning level of AUM;      

the net flows of new assets during the period resulting from new business wins and existing client enrichments, reduced by the loss of clients and
withdrawals; and      

the impact of market price appreciation or depreciation, the impact of any acquisitions or divestitures and foreign exchange rates.
        The mix of AUM is determined principally by client asset allocation decisions among equities, fixed income, alternative
investments and overlay, and money market products.   
 
   Managed equity assets typically generate higher percentage fees than money market and fixed-income assets.
Also, actively managed assets typically generate higher management fees than indexed or passively managed assets of the same type.      Management
fees are typically subject to fee schedules based on the overall level of assets managed for a single client or by individual asset class and style. This is most prevalent for institutional assets where amounts we manage for individual clients are
typically large.      A key driver of organic growth in investment management and performance fees is the amount of net new AUM flows. Overall
market conditions are also key drivers, with a significant long-term economic driver being the growth of global financial assets.      Performance
fees are generally calculated as a percentage of a portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance.      Results for this business are also impacted by sales of fee-based products. Net interest revenue is determined by loan and deposit volumes and the interest rate spread between customer rates and internal
funds transfer rates on loans and deposits. Expenses in this business are mainly driven by staffing costs, incentives and distribution and servicing expense.       Review of financial results       Investment management and performance fees are dependent on
the overall level and mix of AUM and the management fees expressed in basis points (one-hundredth of one percent) charged for managing those assets. Assets under management were $1.26 trillion at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $1.17 trillion at
Dec. 31, 2010, an increase of 8%. The increase primarily reflects net new business and higher market values, offset in part by short-term outflows.      Net long-term inflows were $83 billion and benefited from strength in fixed income and equity-indexed products. Net short-term outflows were $14 billion in 2011.   
  Revenue generated in the Investment Management business includes 42% from non-U.S. sources in 2011 compared with 40% in 2010.   
  In 2011, Investment Management had pre-tax income of $723 million compared with $743 million in 2010.

BNY
Mellon     19   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Excluding amortization of intangible assets, pre-tax income was $937 million in 2011 compared with $980 million in 2010. Investment Management results for 2011 reflect the impact of net new
business in the investment management boutiques and the wealth management business, the adverse impact of the low interest rate environment, and lower performance fees.      Investment management and performance fees in the Investment Management business were $3.1 billion in 2011 compared with $3.0 billion in 2010. The increase was driven by net new business and higher
average equity markets, largely offset by higher money market fee waivers and lower non-U.S. markets and performance fees.      In 2011, 35% of
investment management and performance fees were generated from managed mutual fund fees. These fees are based on the daily average net assets of each fund and the management fee paid by that fund. Managed mutual fund fee revenue was $1.1 billion in
both 2011 and 2010. Managed mutual fund fees were impacted by net new business and higher average equity markets in the U.S., primarily offset by higher money market fee waivers.      Distribution and servicing fees were $181 million in 2011 compared with $201 million in 2010. The decrease primarily reflects higher money market fee waivers.   
  Other fee revenue was $31 million in 2011 compared with $80 million in 2010. The decrease primarily resulted from a $30 million write-down of an equity
investment, mark-to-market seed capital losses and lower securities gains.

Net interest revenue was $206 million in 2011, compared with $205 million in 2010. The increase primarily
resulted from higher average deposits and loans, largely offset by the impact of low interest rates. Average deposits increased 23% in 2011 compared with 2010 while average loans increased 8% in 2011 compared with 2010.   
  Noninterest expense excluding amortization of intangible assets was $2.53 billion in 2011 and $2.46 billion in 2010. The increase was primarily driven by
higher distribution and servicing and staff expenses, primarily resulting from net new business.       2010 compared with 2009    
  Income before taxes was $743 million in 2010, compared with $567 million in 2009. Income before taxes excluding amortization of intangible assets
and support agreement charges was $980 million in 2010 compared with $831 million in 2009. Fee and other revenue increased $409 million, primarily reflecting improved market values, the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition, higher performance
fees, net new business and a higher value of seed capital investments. Investment management results also include $12 million of securities gains in 2010 and $76 million of securities losses in 2009. The increase in fee and other revenue was
partially offset by higher fee waivers and short-term outflows. Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets) increased $221 million in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher incentives expense resulting from an increase
in performance fees, as well as the impact of adjusting compensation to market levels, and the full-year impact of the Insight acquisition.

20     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Investment Services business    

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes investment management fees and distribution and servicing revenue.      

(b)   
   Noninterest expense excludes amortization of intangible assets, support agreement charges and litigation expense.      

(b)   
   Represents the total amount of securities on loan, both cash and non-cash, managed by the Investment Services business.      
         BNY
Mellon     21   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Business description       Our Investment Services business provides global custody and related services, broker-dealer services, alternative investment services, corporate trust and depositary receipt, as well as clearing services
and global payment/working capital solutions to institutional clients.      Our comprehensive suite of financial solutions includes: global
custody, global fund services, securities lending, investment manager outsourcing, performance and risk analytics, alternative investment services, securities clearance, collateral management, corporate trust, American and global depositary receipt
programs, cash management solutions, payment services, liquidity services and other revenues, principally foreign exchange, global clearing and execution, managed account services and global prime brokerage solutions. Our clients include
corporations, public funds and government agencies, foundations and endowments; global financial institutions including banks, broker-dealers, asset managers, insurance companies and central banks; financial intermediaries and independent registered
investment advisors and hedge fund managers. We help our clients service their financial assets through a network of offices and operations centers in 36 countries across six continents.      The results of this business are driven by a number of factors which include: the level of transaction activity; the range of services provided, including custody, accounting, fund administration, daily
valuations, performance measurement and risk analytics, securities lending, and investment manager back-office outsourcing; and the market value of assets under administration and custody. Market interest rates impact both securities lending revenue
and the earnings on client deposit balances. Business expenses are driven by staff, technology investment, equipment and space required to support the services provided by the business and the cost of execution and clearance and custody of
securities.      We are one of the leading global securities servicing providers with a total of $25.8 trillion of assets under custody and
administration at Dec. 31, 2011.      We are the largest custodian for U.S. corporate and public pension plans and we service 44% of the top 50
endowments. We are a leading custodian in the UK and service 25% of UK pensions. European asset servicing continues to grow across all products, reflecting significant cross-border investment and capital flows.

We are one of the largest providers of fund services in the world, servicing over $6.5 trillion in assets.
We are the third largest fund administrator in the alternative investment services industry and service 44% of the funds in the U.S. exchange-traded funds marketplace.      BNY Mellon is a leader in both global securities and U.S. Government securities clearance. We clear and settle equity and fixed income transactions in over 100 markets and handle most of the transactions
cleared through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 17 of the 21 primary dealers. We are an industry leader in collateral management, servicing $1.8 trillion as a clearing bank in tri-party balances worldwide at Dec. 31, 2011.   
  In connection with our role as a clearing and custody bank for the tri-party repurchase ( repo ) transaction market, we work with dealers who
use repos to finance their securities by selling them to counterparties, agreeing to buy them back at a later date. In tri-party repos, a clearing and custody bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the intermediary between a dealer and its
counterparty in settling the transaction and providing mark-to-market and other services.      In securities lending, we are one of the largest
lenders of U.S. Treasury securities and depositary receipts and service a lending pool of more than $3.0 trillion in 31 markets. We are one of the largest global providers of performance and risk analytics, with $9.7 trillion in assets under
measurement.      BNY Mellon is the leading provider of corporate trust services for all major conventional and structured finance debt
categories, and a leading provider of specialty services. We service $11.8 trillion in outstanding debt from 61 locations in 20 countries.      We
serve as depositary for 1,389 sponsored American and global depositary receipt programs at Dec. 31, 2011, acting in partnership with leading companies from 65 countries   a 62% global market share.   
  With a network of more than 2,000 correspondent financial institutions, we help clients in their efforts to optimize cash flow, manage liquidity and make
payments more efficiently around the world in more than 100 currencies. We are the fourth largest Fedwire and CHIPS payment processor, processing about 170,000 global payments daily totaling an average of $1.5 trillion.   
  Pershing, our clearing service, takes a consultative approach, working with more than 1,500 financial

22     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

organizations and 100,000 investment professionals who collectively represent more than five and a half million individual and institutional investors by delivering dependable operational
support; robust trading services; flexible technology; an expansive array of investment solutions, including managed accounts, mutual funds and cash management; practice management support and service excellence.   
   Sale of Shareowner Services       On Dec.
31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold its Shareowner Services business. See  Key 2011 events  for additional information.       Role of BNY
Mellon, as a trustee, for mortgage-backed securitizations       BNY Mellon acts as trustee and document custodian for certain mortgage-backed
security ( MBS ) securitization trusts. The role of trustee for MBS securitizations is limited; our primary role as trustee is to calculate and distribute monthly bond payments to bondholders. As a document custodian, we hold the mortgage,
note, and related documents provided to us by the loan originator or seller and provide periodic reporting to these parties. BNY Mellon, either as document custodian or trustee, does not receive mortgage underwriting files (the files that contain
information related to the creditworthiness of the borrower). As trustee or custodian, we have no responsibility or liability for the quality of the portfolio; we are liable only for performance of the limited duties as described above and set forth
in the trust document. BNY Mellon is indemnified by the servicers or directly from trust assets under the governing agreements. BNY Mellon may appear as the named plaintiff in legal actions brought by servicers in foreclosure and other related
proceedings because the trustee is the nominee owner of the mortgage loans within the trusts.       Review of financial results    
  Assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2011 were $25.8 trillion, an increase of 3% from $25.0 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase was
driven by net new business. Equity securities constituted 33% and fixed-income securities constituted 67% of the assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with 32% equity securities and 68% fixed income securities at Dec.
31, 2010. Assets under custody and administration at Dec. 31, 2011 consisted of assets related to custody, mutual funds and corporate trust

businesses of $20.5 trillion, broker-dealer service assets of $3.4 trillion, and all other assets of $1.9 trillion.      Income before taxes was $3.1 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Income before taxes, excluding amortization of intangible assets, was $3.3 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Investment Services results in 2011
were primarily impacted by the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, net new business, higher money market fee waivers, as well as higher volume-driven expenses and expense incurred to support business growth.   
  Revenue generated in the Investment Services business includes 37% from non-U.S. sources in both 2011 and 2010.   
  Investment services fees increased $780 million, or 13%, in 2011 compared with 2010.   

Asset servicing revenue (global custody, broker-dealer services and alternative investment services) was $3.6 billion in 2011 compared with $3.0
billion in 2010. The increase was primarily driven by the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values of AUC, net new business and higher securities lending revenue due to wider spreads, partially offset by lower volumes.

Issuer services revenue (Corporate Trust, Depositary Receipts and Shareowner Services) was $1.4 billion in 2011 compared with $1.5 billion in 2010. The
decrease primarily resulted from lower revenue in our Shareowner Services and Corporate Trust businesses, primarily offset by higher Depositary Receipts revenue driven by higher corporate action fees and net new business.

Clearing services revenue (Pershing) was $1.1 billion in 2011 compared with $1.0 billion in 2010. The increase reflects the full-year impact of the GIS
acquisition, net new business, growth in mutual fund assets and positions and an 8% increase in DARTS, partially offset by higher money market fee waivers.         Foreign exchange and other trading revenue decreased $42 million compared with 2010, primarily reflecting lower volatility and spreads, partially offset by higher volumes.   
  Net interest revenue increased $187 million compared with 2010, primarily driven by higher average customer deposits and loan levels, offset in part by
narrower spreads.   

BNY
Mellon     23   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Noninterest expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, increased $933 million compared with
2010. The increase in expenses primarily resulted from the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher litigation and volume-driven expenses and increased expenses in support of business growth.   
   2010 compared with 2009       Income before
taxes was $3.1 billion in 2010, compared with $3.3 billion in 2009. Income before taxes, excluding amortization of intangible assets, was $3.3 billion in 2010 compared with $3.5 billion in 2009. Fee and other revenue increased $292 million,
primarily due to the impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values of AUC and net new business, partially offset by lower foreign exchange trading volatility, lower money market related distribution fees and lower trading volumes. Net interest
revenue increased $99 million, primarily driven higher yields related to restructured investment securities portfolio and increased loan and deposit balances. Noninterest expense, excluding amortization of intangible assets, increased $593 million,
primarily due to the impact of the Acquisitions, higher volume-driven expenses and expenses supporting business growth.       Other Segment

Business description       The Other segment primarily includes:       

credit-related services;      

the leasing portfolio;      

corporate treasury activities, including our investment securities portfolio;      

our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank;      

a 33.2% equity interest in ConvergEx; and      

business exits and corporate overhead.         Revenue primarily reflects:       

net interest revenue from the credit services and lease financing portfolios;      

interest income remaining after transfer pricing allocations;      

fee and other revenue from corporate and bank-owned life insurance and credit-related financing revenue; and      

gains (losses) associated with the valuation of investment securities and other assets.      
  Expenses include:       

M I expenses;      

restructuring charges;      

direct expenses supporting credit-related services, leasing, investing and funding activities; and      

certain corporate overhead not directly attributable to the operations of other businesses.      
   Equity stake in ConvergEx Group       On
Dec. 23, 2011, the previously-announced agreement to sell a majority of our equity stake in ConvergEx Group was terminated.       Review of
financial results       Income before taxes was a loss of $270 million in 2011 compared with a loss of $220 million in 2010.   
  Total fee and other revenue decreased $3 million in 2011 compared with 2010. The decrease primarily reflects lower leasing gains, financing related fees,
private equity investment gains and the impact of wider credit spreads on the CVA in 2011, partially offset by gains related to loans held-for-sale from a previously divested bank subsidiary

24     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Net interest revenue decreased $129 million in 2011 compared with 2010, primarily reflecting a reduction in
the net interest margin resulting from the continued impact of the low interest rate environment as well as lower average loan and lease balances resulting from our strategy to reduce targeted risk exposure.   
  Noninterest expense (excluding amortization of intangible assets, restructuring charges and M I expenses) decreased $87 million in 2011 compared with
2010. The decrease was driven by lower litigation expense and the impact of state investment tax credits in 2011.       2010 compared with 2009
      Income before taxes was a loss of $220 million in 2010 compared with a loss of $6.1 billion in 2009. Total fee and other revenue
increased $5.5 billion, primarily due to net securities losses related to the restructured investment securities portfolio recorded in 2009. Net interest revenue decreased $52 million, primarily reflecting our strategy to reduce targeted risk
exposure. The provision for credit losses decreased $323 million in 2010 reflecting a decline in criticized assets and improvements in the insurance, media and residential mortgage portfolios. Noninterest expense excluding amortization of intangible
assets, restructuring charges and M I expenses increased $47 million in 2010 compared with 2009 as a result of higher litigation expenses, partially offset by a special FDIC assessment recorded in 2009, as well as lower legal costs and
consulting fees. M I expenses related to the Acquisitions and the 2007 Merger were $139 million in 2010 compared with $233 million in 2009, primarily related to the 2007 Merger.         International operations       Our primary international activities consist of
securities services and global payment services in our investment services business, and asset management in our investment management business.      Our clients include some of the world s largest asset managers, insurance companies, corporations, financial intermediaries, local authorities and pension funds. Through our global network of
offices, we have developed a deep understanding of local requirements and cultural needs and we pride ourselves in providing dedicated service through our multilingual sales, marketing and client service teams.   
  We conduct business through subsidiaries, branches, and representative offices in 36 countries. We have

operational centers based in Brussels, Cork, Dublin, Navan, Wexford, Luxembourg, Singapore, Wroclaw, throughout the United Kingdom including London, Manchester, Brentwood, Edinburgh and Poole,
and Chennai and Pune in India.      At Dec. 31, 2011, we had approximately 9,000 employees in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
( EMEA ), approximately 8,000 employees in the Asia-Pacific region ( APAC ) and approximately 700 employees in other global locations, primarily Brazil.      At Dec. 31, 2011, our cross-border assets under custody and administration were $9.7 trillion compared with $9.2 trillion at Dec. 31, 2010. This increase was primarily driven by net new business.
     In Europe, we maintain a significant presence in the Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directives
( UCITS ) servicing field. In Ireland, BNY Mellon is the largest administrator of third-party assets and largest provider of trustee services. In Luxembourg, BNY Mellon is a top 10-ranked fund administrator. We provide global clearance
services in more than 100 markets and service $1.8 trillion in daily tri-party balances spanning 40 markets.      The acquisition of GIS and BAS
in 2010 expanded our investment services business worldwide. GIS enhanced our managed account platform, performance reporting capabilities and business intelligence tools for broker-dealer and registered investment advisor clients. BAS offers a full
range of tailored solutions for investment companies, financial institutions and institutional investors in Germany.      We serve as the
depositary for 1,389 sponsored American and global depositary receipt programs, acting in partnership with leading companies from 65 countries. As the world s leading provider of corporate trust and agency services, BNY Mellon services $11.8
trillion in outstanding debt from 61 locations, in 20 countries, for clients including governments and their agencies, multi-national corporations, financial institutions and other entities that access the global debt markets. We leverage our global
footprint and expertise to deliver customized and market-driven solutions across a full range of debt issuer and related investor services.   
  BNY Mellon Asset Management operates on a multi-boutique model, bringing investors the skills of our specialist boutique asset managers, which together
manage investments spanning virtually all asset classes.   

BNY
Mellon     25   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   We are one of the largest global asset managers, ranking 11th in the institutional marketplace and are the
8th largest asset manager active in Europe. We are also a market leader in the field of liability-driven investments.      At Dec. 31, 2011, our
international operations managed 38% of BNY Mellon s AUM, compared with 34% at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase primarily resulted from net long-term inflows in fixed income products and improved market values.   
  We process 170,000 global payments daily, totaling an average of $1.5 trillion. With payment services provided in more than 100 currencies through more
than 2,000 correspondent bank accounts worldwide, we are a recognized leader in receivables and payables processing.      We have over 50 years of
experience providing trade and cash services to financial institutions and central banks outside of the U.S. In addition, we offer a broad range of servicing and fiduciary products to financial institutions, corporations and central banks depending
on the state of market development. In emerging markets, we lead with global payments and issuer services, introducing other products as the markets mature. For more established markets, our focus is on global, not local, investment services.
     We are also a full-service global provider of foreign exchange services, actively trading in over 80 of the world s currencies. We serve
clients from ten trading rooms in Europe, Asia and North America.      Our financial results, as well as our level of AUM and AUC, are impacted by
the translation of financial results denominated in foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar. We are primarily impacted by activities denominated in the British pound and the Euro. If the U.S. dollar depreciates against these currencies, the
translation impact is a higher level of fee revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense and AUM and AUC. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar appreciates, the translated levels of fee revenue, net interest revenue, noninterest expense and AUM and
AUC will be lower.       

International clients accounted for 37% of revenue in 2011 compared with 36% in 2010 and 53% in 2009.
Income from international operations was $1.5 billion in 2011 compared with income from continuing operations of $1.5 billion in 2010 and $1.1 billion in 2009.      In 2011, revenues from EMEA were $3.8 billion, compared with $3.5 billion in 2010 and $2.8 billion in 2009. Revenues from EMEA were up 8% for 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in 2011 primarily reflects
the full-year impact of the Acquisitions, higher market values and net new business, partially offset by lower volumes, lower performance fees and a write-down of an equity investment in the fourth quarter of 2011. Investment Services generated 72%
and Investment Management generated 28% of EMEA revenues. Income from continuing operations from EMEA was $867 million in 2011 compared with $916 million in 2010 and $667 million in 2009.      Revenues from APAC were $842 million in 2011 compared with $745 million in 2010 and $669 million in 2009. Revenues from APAC were up 13% for 2011 compared to 2010. The increase in 2011 primarily resulted
from higher net interest revenue and net new business. Revenue from APAC in 2011 was generated by Investment Services 67% and Investment Management 27%. Income from continuing operations from APAC was $325 million in 2011 compared with $295 million
in 2010 and $222 million in 2009.      Net income in EMEA reflects the same factors affecting revenue, which were more than offset by higher
expenses, including higher risk expenses as well as a credit loss incurred in the second quarter. Net income in APAC was driven by the same factors affecting revenue. For additional information regarding our International operations, see Note 27 of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal    
  The following table presents our on- and off-balance sheet exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Portugal at   
  Dec. 31, 2011. We have provided expanded disclosure on these countries as they have experienced particular market focus on credit quality and are
countries experiencing economic concerns. Where appropriate, we are offsetting the risk associated with the gross exposure in these countries with collateral that has been pledged, which primarily consists of cash or marketable securities, or by
transferring the risk to a third-party guarantor in another country.   

26     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

BNY Mellon has a limited economic interest in the performance of assets of consolidated investment
management funds, therefore they are excluded from this presentation. The liabilities of consolidated investment management funds represent the interest of the note holders of the funds and are solely dependent on the value of the assets. Any loss
in the value of assets of consolidated investment management funds would be incurred by the fund s note holders.

At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon had no exposure to Greece and no sovereign exposure to the countries disclosed
below.      Our exposure to Ireland is principally related to Irish domiciled investment funds. Servicing provided to these funds and fund
families may result in overdraft exposure.      See  Risk management  for additional information on how our exposures are managed.

Exposure in the table below reflects
the country of operations and risk of the immediate counterparty.       

(a)   
   Interest-bearing deposits with banks represent a $96 million placement with an Irish subsidiary of a UK holding company and $29 million of nostro accounts related to
our custody business.      

(b)   
   Represents $364 million, fair value, of residential mortgage-backed securities, of which 97% were investment grade, $23 million, fair value, of investment grade
asset-backed CLOs, and $3 million, fair value, of money market fund investments located in Ireland.      

(c)   
   Loans and leases include $335 million of overdrafts primarily to Irish domiciled investment funds resulting from our custody business, a $65 million commercial lease
fully-collateralized by U.S. Treasuries, $15 million of financial institution loans, which were collateralized by marketable securities and $4 million of leases to airline manufacturing companies which are under joint and several guarantee
arrangements, with guarantors outside of the Eurozone. There is no impairment associated with these loans and leases.      

(d)   
   Trading assets represent over-the-counter mark-to-market on foreign exchange receivables, net of master netting agreements. Trading assets include $117 million of
foreign exchange trading receivables due from Irish domiciled investment funds and $72 million to financial institutions in Italy, Spain and Portugal. Cash collateral on the trading assets totaled $22 million in Ireland, $39 million in Italy, $7
million in Spain and $3 million in Portugal.      

(e)   
   Lending-related commitments represent $100 million to an asset manager fully-collateralized by marketable securities, and $173 million to an insurance company,
collateralized by $90 million of marketable securities.      

(f)   
   Represents a $14 million letter of credit extended to an insurance company in Spain fully-collateralized by marketable securities. Exposure in Italy represents a $2
million letter of credit extended to a financial institution.      
         BNY
Mellon     27   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Cross-border risk       Foreign assets are subject to general risks attendant to the conduct of business in each foreign country, including economic uncertainties and each foreign government s regulations. In addition, our
foreign assets may be affected by changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency

exchange rates or other factors. Cross-border outstandings include loans, acceptances, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments, and other monetary assets
which are denominated in U.S. dollars or other non-local currency. Also included are local currency outstandings not hedged or funded by local borrowings.

The table below shows our
cross-border outstandings for the last three years where cross-border exposure exceeds 1.00% of total assets (denoted with  * ) or 0.75% of total assets (denoted with  ** ).   

(a)   
   Primarily short-term interest-bearing deposits with banks.      

(b)   
   Excludes assets of consolidated investment management funds.      

(c)   
   Primarily European floating rate notes.      
      
  28     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Emerging markets exposure       We determine our emerging markets exposures using the MSCI Emerging Markets (EM) IMI Index. Our emerging markets exposures totaled $8 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $5 billion at Dec. 31, 2010.
The increase in emerging markets exposure was primarily driven by higher short-term loans and interest-bearing deposits with banks.        
 Critical accounting estimates       Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements under  Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies . Our more critical accounting estimates are those related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments, fair value of financial
instruments and derivatives, other-than-temporary impairment, goodwill and other intangibles, and pension accounting. Further information on policies related to the allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments can be found
under  Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on the valuation of derivatives and securities where quoted market prices are not available
can be found under  Fair value measurement  in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on policies related to goodwill and intangible assets can be found in  Goodwill and intangible assets 
in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information on pensions can be found in  Employee benefit plans  in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments       The allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in our credit portfolio. This evaluation process is subject to
numerous estimates and judgments.      In 2011, we implemented an enhanced methodology for determining the allowance for credit losses by adding a
qualitative allowance framework. Within this framework, management applies judgment when assessing internal risk factors and environmental factors to compute an additional allowance for each component of the loan portfolio.

The three elements of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments
include the qualitative allowance framework. The three elements are:       

an allowance for impaired credits of $1 million or greater;      

an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits; and      

an allowance for residential mortgage loans.         Our lending is primarily to institutional customers. As a result, our loans are generally larger than $1 million. Therefore, the first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all
impaired loans of $1 million or greater. The allowance is measured by the difference between the recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value. Impaired value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the
borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.      The second element, higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated
credits, is based on our probable loss model. All borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings. The probable loss inherent in each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and
maturity. The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation. The borrower s probability of default is derived from the associated credit rating. Borrower ratings are reviewed at least annually and are periodically mapped to third-party
databases, including rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity. Higher risk-rated credits are reviewed quarterly. Commercial loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being assigned a
credit rating. We also apply this technique to our lease financing and wealth management portfolios.      The third element, the allowance for
residential mortgage loans, is determined by segregating six mortgage pools into delinquency periods ranging from current through foreclosure. Each of these delinquency periods is assigned a probability of default. A specific loss given default
based on a combination of external loss data from third-party databases and internal loss history is assigned for each mortgage pool. For each pool, the inherent loss is calculated using the above factors. The resulting probable loss factor is
applied against the loan balance to determine the allowance held for each pool.   

BNY
Mellon     29   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The qualitative framework is used to determine an additional allowance for each portfolio based on the
factors below:      Internal risk factors:       

Non-performing loans to total non-margin loans;      

Criticized assets to total loans and lending-related commitments;      

Ratings volatility;      

Borrower concentration; and      

Significant concentration in high risk industry.         Environmental risk factors:       

U.S. non-investment grade default rate;      

Unemployment rate; and      

Change in real GDP.         The
allocation of the prior period allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments has been restated to reflect the implementation of the qualitative allowance framework.      To the extent actual results differ from forecasts or management s judgment, the allowance for credit losses may be greater or less than future charge-offs.   
  The credit rating assigned to each credit is a significant variable in determining the allowance. If each credit were rated one grade better, the
allowance would have decreased by $68 million, while if each credit were rated one grade worse, the allowance would have increased by $109 million. Similarly, if the loss given default were one rating worse, the allowance would have increased by $45
million, while if the loss given default were one rating better, the allowance would have decreased by $42 million. For impaired credits, if the net carrying value of the loans was 10% higher or lower, the allowance would have decreased or increased
by $2 million, respectively.       Fair value of financial instruments       The guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement  included in Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 820 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands
disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The standard also established a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement
date.   
 
    Fair value   Securities         Level 1   Securities     Recent quoted prices from exchange transactions are used for debt and equity securities that are actively traded on exchanges and for U.S. Treasury
securities and U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over-the-counter markets.        Level 2  
Securities     For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. The pricing sources
employ financial models or obtain comparisons to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.      Specifically, the pricing
sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and speed of prepayment for the type of transaction and apply such variables
to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current market place and classify such securities as Level 2.      In
addition, we have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS and other types of securities such as FDIC-insured debt and sovereign debt. The pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from
three major inter-dealer brokers. The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the inter-dealer brokers.      For securities with bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is analyzed and that information is included in the fair value assessment for such securities.   
  The pricing sources discontinue pricing any specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient observable data to provide a good faith
opinion on price. The pricing sources did not discontinue pricing for any securities in our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2011.   
  BNY Mellon obtains prices for its Level 1 and Level 2 securities from multiple pricing sources. We have designed controls to develop an understanding of
the pricing sources  securities pricing methodology and have implemented specific internal controls over the valuation of securities.

30     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   As appropriate, we review the quality control procedures and pricing methodologies used by the pricing
sources, including the process for obtaining prices provided by the pricing sources, their valuation methodology and controls for each class of security.      Prices received from pricing sources are subject to validation checks that help determine the completeness and accuracy of the prices. These validation checks are reviewed by management and, based on the
results, may be subject to additional review and investigation. We also review securities with no price changes (stale prices) and securities with zero or 100% values.      BNY Mellon has a surveillance process in place to monitor the accuracy of prices provided by the pricing sources. We utilize a hierarchy that compares security prices obtained from multiple pricing
sources against established thresholds. Discrepancies that fall outside of these thresholds are challenged with the pricing services and adjusted if necessary.      If further research is required, we review and validate these prices with the pricing sources. We also validate prices from pricing sources by comparing prices received to actual observed prices from
actions such as purchases and sales, when possible.        Level 3   Securities     Where we have used our own cash flow
models and estimates to value securities, we classify them in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy. More than 99% of our securities are valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Less than 1% of our securities are priced
based on economic models and non-binding dealer quotes, and are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.      See Note 22 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for details of our securities by ASC 820 hierarchy level.       Fair value   Derivative financial
instruments         Level 1   Derivative financial instruments     Includes derivative financial instruments that are
actively traded on exchanges, principally foreign exchange futures and forward contracts.        Level 2   Derivative financial
instruments     Includes the majority of our derivative financial instruments priced using internally developed models that use observable inputs for interest rates, pay-downs (both actual and expected), foreign exchange rates, option
volatilities and other factors. The valuation process

takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity and concentration concerns.        Level 3   Derivative financial instruments     Certain interest rate derivatives that are highly structured require significant judgment and analysis to adjust the value determined
by standard pricing models. These interest rate derivatives are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy and comprise less than 1% of our derivative financial instruments at fair value.      To test the appropriateness of the valuations, we subject the models to review and approval by an independent internal risk management function, benchmark the models against similar instruments and
validate model estimates to actual cash transactions. In addition, we perform detailed reviews and analyses of profit and loss. Valuation adjustments are determined and controlled by a function independent of the area initiating the risk position.
As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain products becomes more transparent, we refine our valuation methods. Any changes to the valuation models are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.   
  To confirm that our valuation policies are consistent with exit prices as prescribed by ASC 820, we reviewed our derivative valuations using recent
transactions in the marketplace, pricing services and the results of similar types of transactions. As a result of maximizing observable inputs as required by ASC 820, we reflect external credit ratings as well as observable credit default swap
spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as
those of our counterparties.      For details of our derivative financial instruments by ASC 820 hierarchy level, see Note 22 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.       Fair value option       ASC 825 provides the option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement basis for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments which
are not subject to fair value under other accounting standards. Under ASC 825, fair value is used for both the initial and subsequent measurement of the designated assets, liabilities and commitments, with the changes in fair value recognized in
income. See   

BNY
Mellon     31   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure regarding the fair value option.       Fair value   Judgments       In times of illiquid markets and financial stress, actual
prices and valuations may significantly diverge from results predicted by models. In addition, other factors can affect our estimate of fair value, including market dislocations, incorrect model assumptions, and unexpected correlations. These
valuation methods could expose us to materially different results should the models used or underlying assumptions be inaccurate. See  Basis of presentation  in Note 1 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Other-than-temporary impairment       The guidance
included in ASC 320 defines the other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) model for investments in debt securities. Under this guidance, a debt security is considered impaired if its fair value is less than its amortized cost basis. An OTTI
is triggered if (1) the intent is to sell the security, (2) the security will more likely than not have to be sold before the impairment is recovered, or (3) the amortized cost basis is not expected to be recovered. When an entity
does not intend to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis, it will recognize the credit component of an OTTI of a debt security in earnings and the remaining portion in accumulated other comprehensive income.   
  The determination of whether a credit loss exists is based on best estimates of the present value of cash flows to be collected from the debt security.
Generally, cash flows are discounted at the effective interest rate implicit in the debt security at the time of acquisition. For debt securities that are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets and are not high credit quality, ASC 325
provides that cash flows be discounted at the current yield used to accrete the beneficial interest.      For each security in the investment
securities portfolio (including but not limited to those whose fair value is less than their amortized cost basis), an extensive, regular review is conducted to determine if an OTTI has occurred. For example, to determine if an unrealized loss on
non-agency RMBS is other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying assets (mortgages) and multiply that calculated amount by an estimate of realizable value

upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity) in order to determine the projected collateral loss. We also evaluate the current credit enhancement underlying the bond to determine the
impact on cash flows. If we determine that a given RMBS will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a charge to earnings.      During 2011, the housing market continued to remain unstable. As a result, we adjusted our non-agency RMBS estimated default and loss severity assumptions to increase estimated defaults and decreased the
amount we expect to receive to cover the value of the original loan. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for projected weighted-average default rates and loss severities for the 2007, 2006 and late-2005 non-agency RMBS and
Grantor Trust portfolios at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010. If actual delinquencies, default rates and loss severity assumptions worsen, we would expect additional impairment losses to be recorded in future periods.   
  Net securities gains in 2011 were $48 million compared with $27 million in 2010.      If we were to increase or decrease each of our loss severity and projected default rates by 100 basis points on each of the positions in our Alt-A, subprime and prime RMBS portfolios including the
securities previously held by the Grantor Trust we established in connection with the restructuring of our investment securities portfolio in 2009, credit-related impairment charges on these securities would have increased by $10 million (pre-tax)
or decreased by $9 million (pre-tax) at Dec. 31, 2011.       Goodwill and other intangibles       We initially record all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase acquisitions, including goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other intangibles, in accordance with ASC 805  Business
Combinations . Goodwill, indefinite-lived intangibles and other intangibles are subsequently accounted for in accordance with ASC 350  Intangibles   Goodwill and Other.  The initial measurement of goodwill and intangibles requires
judgment concerning estimates of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. Goodwill ($17.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2011) and indefinite-lived intangible assets ($2.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2011) are not amortized but subject to tests for
impairment annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not they may be impaired. Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are

32     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

subject to impairment if events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.      BNY Mellon s three business segments include seven reporting units for which annual goodwill impairment testing is done in accordance with ASC 350. The Investment Management segment is comprised of
two reporting units; the Investment Services segment is comprised of four reporting units; and one reporting unit is included in the Other segment.      The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of
the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit were to exceed its estimated fair value, a second step would be performed that would
compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. A substantial
goodwill impairment charge would not have a significant impact on our financial condition, but could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, due to regulatory restrictions, the Company s subsidiary banks could be
restricted from distributing available cash to the Parent resulting in the Parent needing to issue additional long-term debt.      In the second
quarter of 2011, we performed our annual goodwill test. The estimated fair values of each of these reporting units exceeded its carrying amount by at least 20% at that time.      GAAP also requires that an interim test be done whenever events or circumstances occur that may indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit might be less than its
carrying value. The broad decline of stock prices throughout the U.S. stock market in the second half of 2011 also impacted the Company s stock price, which declined below the Company s net book value per share. As a result of this
sustained decline in the second half of 2011, the Company performed an interim goodwill test during the fourth quarter of 2011.      For this
interim test, the fair value of each of the Company s reporting units was estimated by the

Company with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist. Fair value was estimated using an income approach, based on discounted cash flows and, where appropriate, a market approach.
Since public company multiples are on a marketable minority interest basis, we adjusted them in the impairment test to reflect the control rights and privileges in arriving at a multiple that reflects an appropriate control premium. Fair value of
each of the Company s reporting units reflected a control premium of 35% to 40%.      Estimated cash flows used in the income approach were
based on management s most recent projections available as of Oct. 31, 2011. The discount rates used under the income approach were based on the capital asset pricing model. The discount rate applied to estimated cash flows ranged from 10% to
12% and incorporated a 6% market equity risk premium, forward assumptions for risk-free rates, and other relevant assumptions. Estimated cash flows extend far into the future and, by their nature, are difficult to estimate over such an extended
time-frame. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among others, stock market price impacts affecting the market values of assets we manage, the effects of regulatory and legislative changes, increases to the cost of equity,
specific industry or market sector conditions, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures and technology, and changes in interest rates.   
  The market approach used by the Company was primarily based on the  Guideline Public Company Method , which generally reflects publicly
available information for comparable businesses, and incorporated earnings multiples from comparable publicly-traded companies in industries similar to that of the respective reporting unit. When appropriate, comparable multiples were selected based
on the expected profitability of the reporting unit among other factors.      The fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as
of the date of the interim test. The fair values of six of the Company s reporting units were substantially in excess of the respective reporting unit s carrying value. The Asset Management reporting unit, with $7.7 billion of allocated
goodwill, which is one of the two reporting units in the Investment Management segment, exceeded its carrying value by approximately 10%.

BNY
Mellon     33   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The fair value of the Asset Management reporting unit was estimated using both an income approach and a
market approach. The Company estimated cash flows based on a compound annual operating income growth rate of approximately 16% through 2016 and 4.5% thereafter, discounted at 12.0%. In addition, the fair value of this reporting unit reflected a
control premium of 35%. Fair value estimates based on the two methods exceeded the carrying value of the reporting unit. For this reporting unit, in the future, small changes in the assumptions could produce a non-cash goodwill impairment, which
would have no effect on our regulatory capital ratios. In addition to the factors and assumptions previously discussed that could affect all of the Company s reporting units, certain money market fee waiver practices and changes in the level of
assets under management could have an effect on Asset Management broadly, as well as the fair value of this reporting unit.      Key judgments in
accounting for intangibles include useful life and classification between goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles or other intangibles requiring amortization.      Indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment at least annually by comparing their fair values, estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, to their carrying values. Other amortizing
intangible assets ($2.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2011) are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Such evaluation of other intangible assets is initially based on undiscounted cash flow projections.
     See Notes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill, intangible assets and the
annual and interim impairment testing.       Pension accounting       BNY Mellon has defined benefit pension plans covering approximately 24,500 U.S. employees and approximately 9,700 non-U.S. employees.      BNY Mellon has two qualified and several non-qualified defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and several pension plans overseas. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the U.S. plans accounted for 84% of the projected
benefit obligation. The pension expense for BNY Mellon plans was $93 million in 2011 compared with $47 million in 2010 and a pension credit of $17 million in 2009.

Effective Jan. 1, 2011, the U.S. pension plan was amended to reduce benefits earned by participants for
service after 2010, and to freeze plan participation such that no new employees will enter the plan after Dec. 31, 2010. This change in the pension plan reduced pension expense by $40 million in 2011.   
  A net pension expense of approximately $140 million is expected to be recorded by BNY Mellon in 2012, assuming currency exchange rates at Dec. 31, 2011.
The expected increase in pension expense in 2012 is primarily driven by the change in plan assumptions.      A number of key assumption and
measurement date values determine pension expense. The key elements include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, the market-related value of plan assets and the price used to value stock in the ESOP. Since 2009, these key
elements have varied as follows:       

(a)   
   Market-related value of plan assets and ESOP stock price are for the beginning of the plan year. See  Summary of significant accounting and reporting
policies  in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         The discount rate for U.S. pension plans was
determined after reviewing equivalent rates obtained by discounting the pension plans  expected cash flows using various high-quality, long-term corporate bond yield curves. We also reviewed the results of several models that matched bonds to
our pension cash flows. After reviewing the various indices and models, we selected a discount rate of 4.75% as of Dec. 31, 2011.      The
discount rates for foreign pension plans are based on high-quality corporate bond rates in countries that have an active corporate bond market. In those

34     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

countries with no active corporate bond market, discount rates are based on local government bond rates plus a credit spread.      Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each applicable asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the expected allocation for each asset class.
Anticipated returns are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets.      We also consider the growth outlook for U.S. and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      The market-related value of plan assets also influences the level of pension expense. Differences between expected and actual returns are recognized over five years to compute an actuarially derived
market-related value of plan assets.      Unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the future service period of active employees
if they exceed a threshold amount. BNY Mellon currently has $1.7 billion of unrecognized losses which are being amortized.      The annual impacts
of hypothetical changes in the key elements on pension costs are shown in the table below.       
    In addition to its pension plans, BNY Mellon has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ). Benefits payable
under The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Pension Plan are offset by the equivalent

value of benefits earned under the ESOP for employees who participated in the legacy Retirement Plan of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.   
     Consolidated balance sheet review       At Dec. 31, 2011, total assets were $325.3 billion compared with $247.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in consolidated total assets primarily resulted from growth in client deposits. Deposits
totaled $219.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, and $145.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. At Dec. 31, 2011, total interest-bearing deposits were 48% of total interest-earning assets, compared with 59% at Dec. 31, 2010. Total assets averaged $291.1 billion in
2011, compared with $237.8 billion in 2010. The increase in average assets primarily reflects higher client deposit levels. Total deposits averaged $182.7 billion in 2011 and $139.4 billion in 2010.   
  At Dec. 31, 2011, we had $40.8 billion of liquid funds and $94.4 billion of cash (including $90.2 billion of overnight deposits with the Federal Reserve
and other central banks) for a total of $135.2 billion of available funds. This compares with available funds of $77.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. Our percentage of liquid assets to total assets was 42% at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with 31% at Dec. 31,
2010. At Dec. 31, 2011, of our $40.8 billion in liquid funds, $36.3 billion were placed in interest-bearing deposits with large, highly-rated global financial institutions with a weighted average life to maturity of approximately 56 days. Of the
$36.3 billion, $7.5 billion was placed with banks in the Eurozone.      Investment securities were $82.0 billion or 25% of total assets at Dec.
31, 2011, compared with $66.3 billion or 27% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase primarily reflects a higher level of agency residential mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasury securities and sovereign securities, as well as an
improvement in the unrealized gain of our investment securities portfolio.      Loans were $44.0 billion or 14% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2011,
compared with $37.8 billion or 15% of total assets at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in loan levels was primarily due to higher loans to broker-dealers.      Long-term debt increased to $19.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 from $16.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, primarily due to the issuance of $5.1 billion of senior medium-term notes, partially offset by $1.3 billion
of senior and subordinated debt that matured in 2011 and $596 million of retail medium-term notes that were called in 2011.

BNY
Mellon     35   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Total shareholders  equity applicable to BNY Mellon was $33.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 and $32.4
billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in total shareholders  equity primarily reflects earnings retention and an improvement in the valuation of our investment securities portfolio, offset in part by share repurchases.   
  BNY Mellon, through its involvement in the Government Securities Clearing Corporation ( GSCC ), settles government securities transactions on a
net basis for payment and delivery through the Fed wire system. As a result, at Dec. 31, 2011, the assets and liabilities of BNY Mellon were reduced by $98 million for the netting of repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreement
transactions executed with the same counterparty under

standardized Master Repurchase Agreements. This netting is performed in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 41 (ASC Topic 210-20)
 Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements.        Investment securities    
  In the discussion of our investment securities portfolio, we have included certain credit ratings information because the information indicates the
degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings classifications for our investment portfolio could indicate increased credit risk for us and could be accompanied by a reduction in the fair value of our investment
securities portfolio.   

The following table shows the
distribution of our total investment securities portfolio:       

(a)   
   Amortized cost before impairments.      

(b)   
   The  Watch list  includes those securities we view as having a higher risk of impairment charges.      

(c)   
   Includes RMBS, commercial MBS and other securities. See page 37 for exposure by country.      

(d)   
   Primarily comprised of exposure to United Kingdom, France, Germany and Netherlands.      

(e)   
   These RMBS were included in the former Grantor Trust and were marked-to-market in 2009. We believe these RMBS would receive higher credit ratings if these ratings
incorporated, as additional credit enhancement, the difference between the written-down amortized cost and the current face amount of each of these securities.      

(f)   
   Primarily comprised of exposure to Germany and Canada.      

(g)   
   Includes net unrealized gains on derivatives hedging securities available-for-sale of $60 million at Dec. 31, 2010 and net unrealized losses on derivatives hedging
securities available-for-sale of $269 million at Dec. 31, 2011.      
      
  36     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The fair value of our investment securities portfolio was $81.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with
$66.4 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in the fair value of the investment securities portfolio primarily reflects a higher level of agency residential mortgage-backed securities, U.S. Treasury securities and sovereign securities, commensurate
with our growth in deposits, as well as an increase in the unrealized gain of the securities portfolio. In 2011, we received $1.3 billion of paydowns and sold $480 million of sub-investment grade securities.   
  At Dec. 31, 2011, the total investment securities portfolio had an unrealized pre-tax gain of $793 million compared with $353 million at Dec. 31, 2010.
The unrealized net of tax gain on our investment securities available-for-sale portfolio included in accumulated other comprehensive income was $417 million at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $151 million at Dec. 31, 2010. The improvement in the
valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by improved valuations of agency RMBS and U.S. Treasury securities, partially offset by declines in valuations of certain non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities.   
  In 2009, we established a Grantor Trust in connection with the restructuring of our investment securities portfolio. The Grantor Trust has been
dissolved. The securities held in the former Grantor Trust are included in our investment securities portfolio and were marked down to approximately 60% of face value in 2009. At Dec. 31, 2011, these securities were trading above adjusted amortized
cost with a total unrealized pre-tax gain of $177 million compared with $578 million at Dec. 31, 2010.      At Dec. 31, 2011, 89% of the
securities in our portfolio were rated AAA/AA-, compared with 87% at Dec. 31, 2010.      We routinely test our investment securities for OTTI.
(See  Critical accounting estimates  for additional disclosure regarding OTTI.)      At Dec. 31, 2011, we had $1.2 billion of accretable
discount related to the restructuring of the investment securities portfolio. The discount related to these transactions had a remaining average life of approximately 3.9 years. The accretion of discount related to these securities increases net
interest revenue and is recorded on a level yield basis. The discount accretion totaled $391 million in 2011 and $458 million in 2010.

Also, at Dec. 31, 2011, we had $1.7 billion of net amortizable purchase premium relating to investment
securities with a remaining average life of approximately 4.1 years. For these securities, the amortization of net premium decreased net interest revenue and is recorded on a level yield basis. We recorded net premium amortization of $294 million in
2011 and $242 million in 2010.      The following table provides pre-tax securities gains (losses) by type.   
   
    At Dec. 31, 2011, the investment securities portfolio includes $95 million of assets not accruing interest. These
securities are held at market value.      The following table shows the fair value of the European floating rate notes by geographical location at
Dec. 31, 2011. The unrealized loss on these securities was $347 million at Dec. 31, 2011, a decrease of 19% compared with $431 million at Dec. 31, 2010.       

(a)   
   71% of these securities are in the AAA to AA- ratings category.

BNY
Mellon     37   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the detail of securities by level in the
fair value hierarchy.       Equity investments       We also have equity investments categorized as other assets. Included in other assets are (parenthetical amounts indicate carrying values at Dec. 31, 2011): joint ventures and other equity investments
($1.6 billion), seed capital ($48 million), Federal Reserve Bank stock ($429 million), private equity investments ($122 million), and tax advantaged low-income housing investments ($477 million). For additional information on the fair value of our
private equity investments and seed capital, see Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      Our equity investment in Wing
Hang Bank Limited ( Wing Hang ), which is located in Hong Kong, had a fair value of $499 million (book value of $399 million) based on its share price at Dec. 31, 2011. An agreement with certain other shareholders of Wing Hang prohibits
the sale of this interest without their permission. In 2011, we elected to receive a stock dividend from Wing Hang with a value of $12 million

(or 1.1 million shares). In 2010 and 2009, we received cash dividends from Wing Hang of $6 million and $2 million, respectively.      Private equity activities consist of investments in private equity funds, mezzanine financings, and direct equity investments. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core activities, we continue to
reduce our exposure to these activities. The carrying and fair value of our private equity investments was $122 million at Dec. 31, 2011, down $21 million from $143 million at Dec. 31, 2010. At Dec. 31, 2011, private equity investments consisted of
investments in private equity funds of $115 million, direct equity of less than $1 million, and leveraged bond funds of $7 million. Investment income was $18 million in 2011.      At Dec. 31, 2011, we had $22 million of unfunded investment commitments to private equity funds. If unused, the commitments expire between 2012 and 2015.   
  Commitments to private equity limited partnerships may extend beyond the expiration period shown above to cover certain follow-on investments, claims and
liabilities, and organizational and partnership expenses.   

Loans    

At Dec. 31, 2011, total exposures were $79.5 billion, an increase of 5% from $75.9 billion at Dec. 31,
2010. This increase primarily reflects higher secured term loans to broker-dealers in the margin loans portfolio and higher other margin loans, partially offset by lower commercial exposure, overdrafts and lease financing exposure.

Our financial institutions and commercial portfolios comprise our largest concentrated risk. These
portfolios make up 56% of our total lending exposure. Additionally, a substantial portion of our overdrafts relate to financial institutions and commercial customers.

38     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Financial institutions       The diversity of the financial institutions portfolio is shown in the following table.       

The financial institutions portfolio exposure was $26.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, compared to
$25.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase primarily reflects loans to banks.      Financial institution exposures are high quality,
with 93% meeting the investment grade equivalent criteria of our rating system at Dec. 31, 2011. These exposures are generally short-term. Of these exposures, 78% expire within one year, and 39% expire within 90 days. In addition, 44% of the
financial institutions exposure is secured. For example, securities industry and asset managers often borrow against marketable securities held in custody.      For ratings of non-U.S. counterparties, as a conservative measure, our internal credit rating

classification generally caps the rating based upon the sovereign rating of the country where the counterparty resides regardless of the credit rating of the counterparty or the underlying
collateral.      Our exposure to banks is predominately to investment grade counterparties in developed countries. Non-investment grade bank
exposures are short-term in nature supporting our global trade finance and U.S. dollar clearing businesses in developing countries.      The asset
manager portfolio exposures are high quality with 99% meeting our investment grade equivalent ratings criteria at Dec. 31, 2011. These exposures are generally short-term liquidity facilities with the vast majority to regulated mutual funds.

Commercial    
  The diversity of the commercial portfolio is shown in the following table.   

The commercial portfolio exposure decreased 14% to $17.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, from $20.4 billion at
Dec. 31, 2010, reflecting our desire to reduce

non-strategic exposure. Our goal is to maintain a predominantly investment grade portfolio.

BNY
Mellon     39   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The table below summarizes the percentage of the financial institutions and commercial exposures that are
investment grade.       
    Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities, avoid single
name/industry concentrations and exit high-risk portfolios. Each customer is assigned an internal rating grade, which is mapped to an external rating agency grade equivalent based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may
change over time. The execution of our strategy has resulted in a higher percentage of the portfolio that is investment grade at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with Dec. 31 2010.       Wealth management loans and mortgages       Wealth Management loans and mortgages are primarily
composed of loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured by marketable securities and/or residential property. Wealth management mortgages are primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan to value ratio of 62% at
origination. In the wealth management portfolio, 1% of the mortgages were past due at Dec. 31, 2011.      At Dec. 31, 2011, the private wealth
mortgage portfolio was comprised of the following geographic concentrations: New York   24%; Massachusetts   17%; California   17%; Florida   8%; and other   34%.       Commercial real estate       Our commercial real estate facilities are focused on experienced
owners and are structured with moderate leverage based on existing cash flows. Our commercial real estate lending activities include both construction facilities and medium-term loans. Our client base consists of experienced developers and long-term
holders of real estate assets. Loans are approved on the basis of existing or projected cash flow, and supported by appraisals and knowledge of local market conditions. Development loans are structured with moderate leverage, and in most instances,
involve some level of recourse to the

developer. Our commercial real estate exposure totaled $3.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $3.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2010.      At Dec. 31, 2011, 58% of our commercial real estate portfolio is secured. The secured portfolio is diverse by project type, with 62% secured by residential buildings, 17% secured by office buildings, 9%
secured by retail properties, and 12% secured by other categories. Approximately 95% of the unsecured portfolio is allocated to investment grade real estate investment trusts ( REITs ) under revolving credit agreements.   
  At Dec. 31, 2011, our commercial real estate portfolio is comprised of the following geographic concentrations: New York metro   43%; investment
grade REITs   40%; and other   17%.       Lease financings       The lease financing portfolio consisted of non-airline exposures of $2.4 billion and $197 million of airline exposures at Dec. 31, 2011. The lease financing exposure is 89% investment grade, or investment
grade equivalent. The leasing portfolio is likely to decline in the future if risk-adjusted returns are unable to meet our expected returns.   
  At Dec. 31, 2011, the non-airline portion of the lease financing portfolio consisted of $2.4 billion of exposures backed by well-diversified assets,
primarily large-ticket transportation equipment. The largest component is rail, consisting of both passenger and freight trains. Assets are both domestic and foreign-based, with primary concentrations in the United States and European countries.
Approximately 50% of the non-airline portfolio is additionally secured by highly rated securities and/or letters of credit from investment grade issuers. Excluding airline lease financing, counterparty rating equivalents at Dec. 31, 2011, were as
follows:       

1% of the counterparties are AA, or equivalent;      

6% were non-investment grade         At Dec. 31, 2011, our $197 million of exposure to the airline industry consisted of $13 million of real estate lease exposure, as well as the airline lease financing portfolio, which included $69
million to major U.S. carriers, $103 million to foreign airlines and $12 million to U.S. regional airlines.   

40     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Recently, the U.S domestic airline industry has shown significant improvement in revenues and yields.
Despite this improvement, these carriers continue to have extremely high debt levels. Combined with their high fixed-cost operating models, the domestic airlines remain vulnerable. As such, we continue to maintain a sizable allowance for loan losses
against these exposures and continue to closely monitor the portfolio.      We utilize the lease financing portfolio as part of our tax management
strategy.       Other residential mortgages       The other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists of one to four family residential mortgage loans and totaled $1.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2011. Included in this portfolio is $596 million of
mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the purchased loans in this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value
ratio of 76% at origination and 28% of these loans were at least 60 days delinquent. The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in California, Florida, Virginia, Maryland and the tri-state
area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut).      To determine the projected loss on the prime and Alt-A mortgage portfolio, we calculate the
total estimated defaults of these mortgages and multiply

that amount by an estimate of realizable value upon sale in the marketplace (severity).   
  At Dec. 31, 2011, we had less than $15 million in subprime mortgages included in the other residential mortgage portfolio. The subprime loans were issued
to support our Community Reinvestment Act requirements.       Overdrafts       Overdrafts primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally repaid within two business
days.       Other loans       Other
loans primarily includes loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities, as well as bankers  acceptances.       Margin loans       Margin loans are collateralized with marketable securities and borrowers are
required to maintain a daily collateral margin in excess of 100% of the value of the loan. Margin loans also include $5 billion related to a term loan program that offers fully collateralized loans to broker-dealers. The increase compared with Dec.
31, 2010 was primarily driven by the term loan program.   

BNY
Mellon     41   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Loans by product       The following table shows trends in the loans outstanding at year-end over the last five years.       

(a)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis.      

Maturity of loan portfolio       The following table shows the maturity structure of our loan portfolio at Dec. 31, 2011.       

(a)   
   Excludes loans collateralized by residential properties, lease financings and wealth management loans and mortgages.      

(b)   
   Variable rate loans due after one year totaled $5.0 billion and fixed rate loans totaled $114 million.      
   International loans       We have credit
relationships in the international markets, particularly in areas associated with our

securities servicing and trade finance activities. Excluding lease financings, these activities resulted in outstanding international loans of $9.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 and $6.5 billion at
Dec. 31, 2010. This increase primarily resulted from an increase in investment grade loans to financial institutions.       Asset quality and allowance
for credit losses       Over the past several years, we have improved our risk profile through greater focus on clients who are active users of
our non-credit services, de-emphasizing broad-based loan growth. Our primary exposure to the credit risk of a customer consists of funded loans, unfunded formal contractual commitments to lend, standby letters of credit and overdrafts associated
with our custody and securities clearance businesses.      The role of credit has shifted to one that complements our other services instead of as
a lead product. Credit solidifies customer relationships and, through a disciplined allocation of capital, can earn acceptable rates of return as part of an overall relationship.      Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities, avoid single name/industry concentrations and exit high-risk

42     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

portfolios. In addition, we make use of credit derivatives and other risk mitigants as economic hedges of portions of the credit risk in our portfolio. The effect of these transactions is to
transfer credit

risk to creditworthy, independent third parties. The following table details changes in our allowance for credit losses for the last five years.

(a)   
   Charge-offs, recoveries and the provision for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.

BNY
Mellon     43   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Net charge-offs were $75 million in 2011, $68 million in 2010 and $214 million in 2009. Net charge-offs in
2011 included $53 million of other residential mortgages primarily located in California, Florida, New York and New Jersey, a $10 million loan in the media portfolio and $6 million related to a broker-dealer holding company that filed for
bankruptcy. Net charge-offs in 2010 included $44 million of other residential mortgages primarily located in California, New York and Florida, $17 million related to a mortgage company, partially offset by $10 million of net recoveries from the
media portfolio. Net charge-offs in 2009 included $71 million related to print and broadcast media, $60 million of residential mortgages primarily located in California, New York, New Jersey and Florida, $31 million related to commercial real estate
exposure in Florida and New York, $38 million to finance and leasing companies and $8 million to an auto parts manufacturer.      The provision
for credit losses was $1 million in 2011 compared with $11 million in 2010 and $332 million in 2009. The lower provision in 2011 primarily resulted from an improvement in the loan portfolio and a decline in criticized assets. Criticized
assets include impaired credits and higher risk-rated credits. We anticipate the quarterly provision for credit losses to be approximately $0 to $15 million in 2012.      The total allowance for credit losses was $497 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and $571 million at Dec. 31, 2010. The decrease in the allowance for credit losses reflects a 27% decline in criticized assets.
     The ratio of the total allowance for credit losses to year-end non-margin loans was 1.59% at Dec. 31, 2011 and 1.84% at Dec. 31, 2010. The
ratio of the allowance for loan losses to year-end non-margin      loans was 1.26% at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with

1.61% at Dec. 31, 2010. The decrease reflects the decline in criticized assets.      We had
$12.8 billion of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $6.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to them. As a
result, we believe that the ratio of total allowance for credit losses to non-margin loans is a more appropriate metric to measure the adequacy of the reserve.      Based on an evaluation of the three elements and our qualitative framework of the allowance for credit losses, as discussed in  Critical accounting estimates  and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, we have allocated our allowance for credit losses as follows:       

(a)   
   Restated to reflect the implementation of the qualitative allowance framework. Excludes discontinued operations in 2010 and 2009. The allowance for credit losses
includes discontinued operations in 2008 and 2007.      

(b)   
   Includes the allowance for wealth management mortgages.         The allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the nature of the loss.

44     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
    Nonperforming assets       The following table shows the distribution of nonperforming assets at the end of each of the last five years.       

(b)   
   Loans of consolidated investment management funds are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio. Included in these loans are nonperforming loans of $101 million
at Dec. 31, 2011 and $218 million at Dec. 31, 2010. These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table
above.      

Nonperforming assets were $341 million at Dec. 31, 2011, a decrease of $58 million compared with Dec. 31, 2010. The
decrease primarily resulted from repayments of $46 million in the other residential mortgage portfolio, $24 million in the commercial real estate portfolio, $10 million in the commercial loan portfolio, $8 million in the financial institutions
portfolio, $4 million in the wealth management portfolio and $1 million in the foreign loan portfolio, and charge-offs of $52 million in the other residential mortgage portfolio, $8 million in the financial institutions portfolio, $8 million in the
foreign loan portfolio, $6 million in the commercial loan portfolio and $4 million in the commercial real estate portfolio. Also in 2011, $27 million in the wealth management portfolio, $21 million in other residential mortgages and $9 million in
the commercial portfolio returned to

accrual status. Additions in 2011 included $90 million in the other residential mortgages portfolio, $36 million in the financial institutions portfolio, $25 million in commercial real estate
portfolio, $12 million in the commercial loans portfolio, $12 million in the foreign loan portfolio and $5 million in the wealth management portfolio.      The following table shows loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest.       
    Past due loans at Dec. 31, 2011 were primarily comprised of other residential mortgages. For additional information, see
Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

BNY
Mellon     45   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Deposits       Total deposits were $219.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, an increase of 51% compared with $145.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in deposits reflects a higher level of both domestic and foreign
deposits resulting from much higher client deposits in our Investment Services business.      Noninterest-bearing deposits were $95.3 billion at
Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $38.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. Interest-bearing deposits were $123.8 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $106.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2010.      The aggregate amount of deposits by foreign customers in domestic offices was $6.5 billion and $3.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  Deposits in foreign offices totaled $85.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, and $72.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The majority of these deposits were in amounts in
excess of $100,000 and were primarily overnight foreign deposits.      The following table shows the maturity breakdown of domestic time deposits
of $100,000 or more at Dec. 31, 2011.       
     Short-term borrowings       We fund ourselves primarily through deposits and, to a lesser extent, other borrowings, which are comprised of federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, payables to
customers and broker-dealers, commercial paper, other borrowed funds and long-term debt. Certain other borrowings, for example, securities sold under repurchase agreements, require the delivery of securities as collateral.   
  See  Liquidity and dividends  below for a discussion of long-term debt and liquidity metrics that we monitor and the Parent s limited
reliance on short-term borrowings.   
 
   Information related to federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements is presented
below.       
     
    Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements were $6.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with
$6.8 billion at Sept. 30, 2011 and $5.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The higher average federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements in the third quarter of 2011 was primarily a function of attractive overnight repo rate
opportunities. The maximum daily balance in the third quarter of 2011 was $21.7 billion and resulted from the same attractive overnight borrowing opportunities. At Dec. 31, 2011 and in the fourth quarter of 2011, we earned revenue on securities sold
under repurchase agreements related to certain securities for which we were able to charge a higher rate for lending them.      Information
related to payables to customers and broker-dealers is presented below.       

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Payables to customers and broker-dealers represent funds awaiting re-investment and short sale proceeds, payable on demand. Payables to customers and
broker-dealers were $12.7 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 and $13.1 billion at Sept. 30, 2011, and $10.0 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. Payables to customers and broker-dealers are driven by customer trading activity levels and market volatility.   
  Information related to commercial paper is presented below.       
     
    Commercial paper outstanding was $10 million at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $44 million at Sept. 30, 2011, and $10
million at Dec. 31, 2010. Our commercial paper matures within 397 days from date of issue and is not redeemable prior to maturity or subject to voluntary prepayment.

Information related to other borrowed funds is presented below.   

Other borrowed funds primarily include: term federal funds purchased under agreement to resell; borrowings under lines of
credit by our Pershing subsidiaries; and overdrafts of subcustodian account balances in our Investment Services businesses. Overdrafts in these accounts typically relate to timing differences for settlements of these business activities. Other
borrowed funds were $2.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $4.6 billion at Sept. 30, 2011 and $2.9 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. Fluctuations between periods reflect overdrafts of subcustodian accounts.   
     Liquidity and dividends    
  BNY Mellon defines liquidity as the ability of the Parent and its subsidiaries to access funding or convert assets to cash quickly and efficiently,
especially during periods of market stress. Liquidity risk is the risk that BNY Mellon cannot meet its cash and collateral obligations at a reasonable cost for both expected and unexpected cash flows, without adversely affecting daily operations or
financial conditions. Liquidity risk can arise from cash flow mismatches, market constraints from inability to convert assets to cash, inability to raise cash in the markets or deposit run-off.

BNY
Mellon     47   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Our overall approach to liquidity management is to ensure that sources of liquidity are sufficient in
amount and diversity such that changes in funding requirements at the Parent and at the various bank subsidiaries can be accommodated routinely without material adverse impact on earnings, daily operations or our financial condition.   
  BNY Mellon seeks to maintain an adequate liquidity cushion in both normal and stressed environments and seeks to diversify funding sources by line of
business, customer and market segment. Additionally, we seek to maintain liquidity ratios within approved limits and liquidity risk tolerance; maintain a liquid asset buffer that can be liquidated, financed and/or pledged as necessary; and control
the levels and sources of wholesale funds.      Potential uses of liquidity include withdrawals of customer deposits and client drawdowns on
unfunded credit or liquidity facilities. We actively monitor unfunded lending-related commitments,      thereby reducing unanticipated funding
requirements.      When monitoring liquidity, we evaluate multiple metrics to ensure ample liquidity for expected and unexpected events. Metrics
include cashflow mismatches, asset maturities, access to debt and money markets, debt spreads, peer ratios,

unencumbered collateral, funding sources and balance sheet liquidity ratios. We have begun to monitor the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio as applied to us, based on our current interpretation
of Basel III. Ratios we currently monitor as part of our standard analysis include total loans as a percentage of total deposits, deposits as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, foreign deposits as a percentage of total interest-earnings
assets, purchased funds as a percentage of total interest-earning assets, liquid assets as a percentage of total interest-earning assets and liquid assets as a percentage of purchased funds. All of these ratios exceeded our minimum guidelines at
Dec. 31, 2011.      We also perform stress tests to verify sufficient funding capacity is accessible after conducting multiple stress scenarios.
     Available funds are defined as liquid funds (which include interest-bearing deposits with banks and federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements), cash and due from banks, and interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks. The table below presents our total available funds including liquid funds at period end and on an average
basis. The higher level of available funds at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with Dec. 31, 2010 resulted from a higher level of client deposits.

On an average basis for 2011 and 2010, non-core sources of funds such as money market rate accounts,
certificates of deposit greater than $100,000, federal funds purchased, trading liabilities and other borrowings were $17.5 billion and $13.9 billion, respectively. The increase primarily reflects higher levels of federal funds purchased, money
market rate accounts and trading liabilities, partially offset by lower levels of other borrowed funds. Average foreign deposits, primarily from our European-based

Investment Services business, were $83.8 billion in 2011 compared with $71.4 billion in 2010. Domestic savings and other time deposits averaged $35.9 billion in 2011 compared with $28.0 billion
in 2010. Both increases reflect growth in client deposits. The deposit growth trend could be impacted by proposed money market fund reform and the expiration of the temporary unlimited FDIC insurance coverage on noninterest-bearing deposits expiring
on Dec. 31, 2012.   

48     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Average payables to customers and broker-dealers were $7.3 billion in 2011 and $6.4 billion in 2010.
Long-term debt averaged $18.1 billion in 2011 and $16.7 billion in 2010. The increase in average long-term debt was driven by planned capital actions and anticipated maturities. Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased to $58.0 billion in 2011
from $35.2 billion in 2010 reflecting growth in client deposits. A significant reduction in our Investment Services business would reduce our access to deposits.      The Parent has four major sources of liquidity:       

cash on hand;      

dividends from its subsidiaries;      

access to the commercial paper market; and      

access to the long-term debt and equity markets.         Our bank subsidiaries can declare dividends to the Parent of approximately $1.4 billion, subsequent to Dec. 31, 2011 without the need for a regulatory waiver. In addition, at Dec. 31, 2011, non-bank
subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of approximately $1.4 billion.      In the first quarter of 2011, BNY Mellon increased its quarterly
cash dividend to $0.13 per common share. Any increase in BNY Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends would require approval from the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like
us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.      Restrictions on our ability to
obtain funds from our subsidiaries are discussed in more detail in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      In 2011 and
2010, the Parent s average commercial paper borrowings were $98 million and $18 million, respectively. The Parent had cash of $4.6 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $3.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The Parent issues commercial paper, on an
overnight basis, to certain custody clients with excess demand deposit balances. Overnight commercial paper outstanding issued by the Parent was $10 million at both Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010. Net of commercial paper outstanding, the Parent s cash
position at Dec. 31, 2011, increased by $1.3 billion compared with Dec. 31, 2010, reflecting the issuance of long-term debt.      The
Parent s major uses of funds are payment of dividends, principal and interest payments on its borrowings, acquisitions, and additional investments in its subsidiaries.

In 2011, we repurchased 34.8 million common shares in the open market at an average price of $24.00
per share for a total of $835 million.      The Parent s reliance on short-term unsecured funding sources such as commercial paper, federal
funds and Eurodollars purchased, certificates of deposit, time deposits and bank notes is limited. The Parent s liquidity target is to have sufficient cash on hand to meet its obligations over the next 18 months without the need to receive
dividends from its bank subsidiaries or issue debt. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the Parent met its liquidity target.      In October 2011, our $226
million credit agreement with 10 financial institutions matured. We did not renew this credit agreement. We are satisfied that our other sources of liquidity are sufficient to meet our liquidity needs.   
  In addition to our other funding sources, we also have the ability to access the capital markets. In June 2010, we filed shelf registration statements on
Form S-3 with the SEC covering the issuance of certain securities, including an unlimited amount of debt, common stock, preferred stock and trust preferred securities, as well as common stock issued under the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend
Reinvestment Plans. These registration statements will expire in June 2013, at which time we plan to file new shelf registration statements.   
  Our ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, is partially dependent on our credit ratings, which, as of Dec. 31, 2011, were
as follows:       

Debt ratings at Dec. 31, 2011   

Standard   Poor s   

Fitch   

DBRS    

Moody s  

Parent:   

Long-term senior debt   

Aa2  

A+  

AA-  

AA (low)   
 
    Subordinated debt   

Aa3  

A  

A+  

A (high)   
 
    Trust-preferred securities   

A1  

BBB  

A  

A (high)   
 
    Short-term   

P1  

A-1  

F1+  

R-1 (middle)   

The Bank of New York Mellon:     
 
    Long-term senior debt   

Aaa  

AA-  

AA-  

AA   
 
    Long-term deposits   

Aaa  

AA-  

AA  

AA   
 
    Short-term deposits   

P1  

A-1+  

F1+  

R-1 (high)   

BNY Mellon, N.A.:    

Long-term senior debt   

Aaa  

AA-  

AA-     
   (a)    
     
  AA   
 
    Long-term deposits   

Aaa  

AA-  

AA  

AA   
 
    Short-term deposits   

P1  

A-1+  

F1+  

R-1 (high)   

Outlook:    

Ratings under review  

Negative  

Stable  

Stable   

(a)   
   Represents senior debt issuer default rating.

BNY
Mellon     49   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In April 2010, Moody s announced that regulatory changes in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank Act ) could result in lower debt and deposit ratings for U.S. banks and other financial institutions whose ratings currently benefit from assumed government support. Currently, the ratings for the
Parent benefit from one notch of  lift  and The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. benefit from two notches of  lift  as a result of the rating agency s government support assumptions. Moody s continues to
evaluate whether to reduce its support assumptions to below pre-financial crisis levels for banks that currently benefit from ratings uplift. In this context, in June 2011, Moody s rating outlook on the Parent and its rated subsidiaries
deposits, senior debt, and senior subordinated debt changed to negative from stable. On Aug. 3, 2011, Moody s reiterated its negative outlook on the Parent and its rated subsidiaries to match Moody s negative outlook on the U.S.
Government, and also due to its opinion that U.S. Government support to systemically important banks could decline, over time, as the Dodd-Frank Act and other banking system changes are implemented.   
  In December 2011, Moody s placed the long-term ratings of the Parent and its rated subsidiaries on review for potential downgrade. Moody s
indicated that it would review BNY Mellon s risk profile, capital plans and earnings prospects in light of an operating environment characterized by lower interest rates, greater capital markets volatility and heightened litigation risks.
Moody s indicated that it did not expect to change its systemic support assumptions during its current review. All short-term ratings for BNY Mellon were affirmed at Prime-1 and are unaffected by this action.   
  In November 2011, S P revised its ratings methodology for banks (the Banking Industry Country Risk Assessment). In that context, on Nov. 29, 2011,
S P lowered the debt ratings of the Parent and its rated subsidiaries by one notch. S P also revised its rating outlook on the Parent and its rated subsidiaries to negative from stable, reflecting S P s outlook on the U.S.
government rating and its assumption that our ratings enjoy one notch of  uplift  from assumed government support.      In January 2012,
Standard   Poor s, Fitch and DBRS reaffirmed all of our debt ratings.      Long-term debt increased to $19.9 billion at Dec. 31,
2011 from $16.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, primarily

due to the issuance of $5.1 billion of senior medium-term notes, summarized in the following table, partially offset by $1.3 billion of senior and subordinated debt that matured in 2011 and $596
million of retail medium-term notes that were called in 2011.       
    In February 2012, we issued $750 million of senior notes maturing in 2015 at an annual interest rate of 1.20% and $500
million of senior notes maturing in 2021 at an annual interest rate of 3.55%.      The Parent has $3.45 billion of long-term debt that will mature
in 2012 and has the option to call $142 million of subordinated debt in 2012, which it may call and refinance if market conditions are favorable.      We have $1.35 billion of trust preferred securities that are freely callable in 2012. These securities qualify as Tier 1 capital. Any decision to call these securities will be based on interest rates, the
availability of cash and capital, and regulatory conditions, as well as the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, which disqualifies these trust preferred securities from the Tier 1 capital of large bank holding companies, including BNY Mellon, over
a three-year period beginning Jan. 1, 2013.      The double leverage ratio is the ratio of investment in subsidiaries divided by our consolidated
equity plus trust preferred securities. Our double leverage ratio was 107.3% at Dec. 31, 2011 and 100.7% at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in the ratio primarily reflects a capital contribution to The Bank of New York Mellon due to the increased size
of its balance sheet. The double leverage ratio is monitored by regulators and rating agencies and is an important constraint on our ability to invest in our subsidiaries and expand our businesses.

50     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   Pershing LLC, an indirect subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines of credit in place
for liquidity purposes which are guaranteed by the Parent. The committed line of credit of $1.085 billion extended by 19 financial institutions matures in March 2012. Average daily borrowings against these lines was $63 million in 2011.
Additionally, Pershing has another committed line of credit for $125 million extended by one financial institution that matures in September 2012. The average borrowing against this line of credit was $1 million during 2011. Pershing LLC has nine
separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $1.6 billion in aggregate. Average daily borrowing under these lines was $542 million, in aggregate, during 2011.      The committed line of credit maintained by Pershing LLC requires the Parent to maintain:       

shareholders  equity of $10 billion;      

a ratio of Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5; and      

a double leverage ratio less than 130%.         We are currently in compliance with these covenants.      Pershing Limited, an indirect U.K.-based
subsidiary of BNY Mellon, has committed and uncommitted lines of credit in place for liquidity purposes, which are guaranteed by the Parent. The committed line of credit of $233 million extended by five financial institutions matures in March 2012.
There were no borrowings under these lines during 2011. Pershing Limited has two separate uncommitted lines of credit amounting to $250 million in aggregate and an overdraft facility of $250 million. Average daily borrowing under these lines was $37
million, in aggregate, during 2011.      The committed line of credit maintained by Pershing Limited requires the Parent to maintain:   

shareholders  equity of $5 billion;      

a ratio of Tier 1 capital plus the allowance for credit losses to nonperforming assets of at least 2.5; and      

a double leverage ratio of less than 130%.         We are currently in compliance with these covenants.

Statement of cash flows       Cash provided by operating activities was $2.2 billion in 2011 compared to $4.1 billion in 2010 and $3.8 billion in 2009. In 2011 and 2010, the cash flows from operations were principally the result of
earnings. In 2009, earnings, excluding the non-cash impact of investment securities losses, depreciation and amortization and accruals and other balances, partially offset by deferred tax benefits and changes in trading activities, were a
significant source of funds.      In 2011, cash used for investing activities was $80.2 billion compared to $14.9 billion in 2010 and cash
provided by investing activities of $23.1 million in 2009. In 2011, increases in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and the purchases of securities, partially offset by a decrease in interest-bearing deposits
with banks and sales, paydowns and maturities of securities, were significant uses of funds. In 2010, purchases of securities available-for-sale, an increase in interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and the
Acquisitions were a significant use of funds. In 2009, interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks was a significant source of funds, partially offset by purchases of securities available for sale.   
  Cash provided by financing activities was $78.8 billion in 2011 and $10.8 billion in 2010, compared with $28.0 billion in 2009 used for financing
activities. In 2011, changes in deposits and payables to customers and broker dealers and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were significant sources of funds. In 2010, change in deposits, federal funds purchased and securities sold under
repurchase agreements, other funds borrowed and the proceeds from issuances of long-term debt were significant sources of funds, partially offset by repayments of long-term debt. In 2009, change in deposits, other borrowed funds and the repurchase
of the Series B preferred stock and the warrant were significant uses of funds, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and common stock, and the change in federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
agreements.   

BNY
Mellon     51   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Commitments and obligations    
  We have contractual obligations to make fixed and determinable payments to third parties as indicated in

the table below. The table excludes certain obligations such as trade payables and trading liabilities, where the obligation is short-term or subject to valuation based on market factors.

(a)   
   Including commercial paper.      

(b)   
   including interest.         We have entered
into fixed and determinable commitments as indicated in the table below:       

(a)   
   Includes private equity and Community Reinvestment Act commitments.      

(b)   
   Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms.

In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, at Dec. 31, 2011, $250 million of unrecognized tax
benefits have been recorded as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential interest of $59 million. At this point, it is not possible to determine when these
amounts will be settled or resolved.      See  Liquidity and dividends  and Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for a further discussion of the source of funds for our commitments and obligations and known material trends in our capital resources.

Off-balance sheet arrangements    
  Off-balance sheet arrangements discussed in this section are limited to guarantees, retained or contingent interests, support agreements, and obligations
arising out of unconsolidated variable interest entities. For BNY Mellon, these items include certain credit guarantees and securitizations. Guarantees include: lending-related guarantees issued as part of our corporate banking business; securities
lending indemnifications issued as part of our servicing and fiduciary businesses; and support agreements issued to customers in our Investment Services and Investment Management businesses. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for a further discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements.   

52     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
      Capital    

(a)   
   See  Supplemental Information  beginning on page 66 for a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.      
  Total The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders  equity increased compared with Dec. 31, 2010. The increase primarily reflects
earnings retention and an unrealized gain in the investment securities portfolio resulting from a decline in interest rates, partially offset by share repurchases.      During 2011, we repurchased 34.8 million shares in the open market, at an average price of $24.00 per share for a total of $835 million. Our capital plan for 2011 authorized the repurchase of up to
$1.3 billion worth of common shares. In 2012, we continued to repurchase shares under the 2011 capital plan. Through Feb. 27, 2012, we repurchased

17.3 million shares in the open market, at an average price of $21.53 per share for a total of $371 million.      The unrealized net of tax gain on our available-for-sale investment securities portfolio recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income was $417 million at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $151 million at
Dec. 31, 2010. The improvement in the valuation of the investment securities portfolio was driven by improved valuations of agency RMBS and U.S. Treasury securities, partially offset by declines in valuations of certain non-agency residential
mortgage-backed securities.      In March 2011, the board of directors authorized a 44% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.13
per common share.      In January 2012, we declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.13 per common share. This cash dividend was paid on
Feb. 7, 2012, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on Jan. 30, 2012.       Capital adequacy    
  Regulators establish certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with
established quantitative measurements. For the Parent to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon must, among other things, qualify as well capitalized.   
  As of Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries were considered well capitalized on the basis of the Basel I Total and Tier 1 capital
to risk-weighted assets ratios and the leverage ratio (Basel I Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets as defined for regulatory purposes).

BNY
Mellon     53   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   Our consolidated and largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, capital ratios are shown
below.       

(a)   
   Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio (Non-GAAP) reflects our current interpretation of the Basel III rules. Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common
equity ratio could change in the future as the U.S. regulatory agencies implement Basel III or if our businesses change.      

(b)   
   See  Supplemental Information  beginning on page 66 for a calculation of this ratio.      
   N/A   Not applicable at the consolidated company level. Well capitalized and adequately capitalized have not been defined for Basel III.

At Dec. 31, 2011, our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 7.1%, an improvement of more than
100 basis points from March 31, 2011. The improvement was driven by earnings retention and the reduction of goodwill and intangible assets related to the sale of Shareowner Services and paydowns on sub-investment grade securities, partially
offset by share repurchases.      If a financial holding company such as BNY Mellon fails to qualify as  well capitalized , it may lose
its status as a financial holding company, which may restrict its ability to undertake or continue certain activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without financial holding company status.
Failure by one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to maintain a well capitalized status could lead to an increase in its FDIC assessment.      If a
bank holding company such as BNY Mellon or bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. fails to qualify as  adequately capitalized , regulatory sanctions and limitations are imposed. At Dec. 31, 2011, the amounts of
capital by which BNY Mellon and our largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, exceed the  well capitalized  guidelines are as follows.

In 2011, average non-interest bearing client deposits increased 65% primarily related to the events in Europe and the
U.S. The additional deposits, which increased the balance sheet, required the Parent to make a capital contribution to The Bank of New York Mellon in order for The Bank of New York Mellon to maintain its leverage ratio above well capitalized
guidelines in 2011. The leverage ratio of The Bank of New York Mellon was 5.3% at both Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010.      The Basel I Tier 1
capital ratio varies depending on the size of the balance sheet at quarter-end and the level and types of investments. The balance sheet size fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on levels of customer and market activity. In general, when
servicing clients are more actively trading securities, deposit balances and the balance sheet as a whole is higher. In addition, when markets experience significant volatility, our balance sheet size may increase considerably as client deposit
levels increase.   

54     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   In 2011, we generated $2.8 billion of gross Basel I Tier 1 common equity primarily driven by earnings
retention.       
    Our Basel I Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.0% at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with 13.4% at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in the
Basel I Tier 1 capital ratio compared with Dec. 31, 2010, primarily reflects earnings retention and a reduction in goodwill and intangible assets resulting from the sale of the Shareowner Services business. At Dec. 31, 2011, our total assets were
$325.3 billion compared with $247.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase in assets did not impact our risk-weighted assets as the increase was primarily in lower risk-weighted government investments and deposits with the Federal Reserve and other
central banks. Our Basel I Tier 1 leverage ratio was 5.2% at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with 5.8% at Dec. 31, 2010. The decrease reflects higher average assets driven by higher client deposits.

The following table shows the impact of a $1 billion increase or decrease in risk-weighted assets or a $100
million increase or decrease in common equity on the consolidated capital ratios at Dec. 31, 2011.       

Potential impact to capital ratios as of Dec. 31, 2011   

Increase or decrease of   

(basis points)     
      
   $100 million in common equity   
     
   $1 billion in risk- weighted
assets/ quarterly average assets   (a)     

Basel I:    

Tier 1 capital   
      
  10 bps  

15  
   bps    
 
    Total capital   
      
   10  

17  

Leverage   
      
     3  

2  

Basel III:    

Estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio   
      
   6 bps  

4  
   bps    

(a)   
   Quarterly average assets determined under Basel I regulatory guidelines.         Our tangible BNY Mellon shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations ratio was 6.4% at Dec. 31, 2011, up from 5.8% at Dec. 31, 2010. The increase compared with the prior year primarily
reflects earnings retention and a reduction in goodwill and intangible assets as a result of the sale of Shareowner Services.      At Dec. 31,
2011, we had $1.7 billion of trust preferred securities outstanding, all of which qualifies as Tier 1 capital. On June 20, 2012, the  stock purchase date,  as defined in the prospectus supplement for the trust preferred securities of
Mellon Capital IV, the sole assets of the trust will become shares of a series of our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock.

BNY
Mellon     55   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following tables present the components of our Basel I Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital as well
as the Basel I risk-weighted assets at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010.       

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel 1 guidelines.      

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel 1 guidelines.      

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      
      
  56     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
   The following table presents the calculation of our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio.

(a)   
   Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio (Non-GAAP) reflects our current interpretation of the Basel III rules. Our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common
equity ratio could change in the future as the U.S. regulatory agencies implement Basel III or if our businesses change.      

(b)   
   Basel III does not add back to capital the adjustment to other comprehensive income that Basel I and Basel II make for pension liabilities and available-for-sale
securities. Also, under Basel III, pension assets recorded on the balance sheet and adjustments related to equity method investments are a deduction from capital.      

(c)   
   Primary differences between Basel I and Basel III include: the determination of credit risk under Basel I uses predetermined risk weights and asset classes, while
under Basel III includes borrower credit ratings and internal risk models; the treatment of securitizations that fall below investment grade receive a significantly higher risk weighting under Basel III than Basel I; also, Basel III includes
additional adjustments for operational risk, market risk, counter party credit risk and equity exposures.          Stock
repurchase program        

(a)   
   Includes 134,000 shares that were repurchased at a purchase price of $3 million from employees, primarily in connection with the employees  payment of taxes
upon the vesting of restricted stock.      

On Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million
shares of common stock. On March 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 13 million shares of common stock. At Dec. 31, 2011, 12 million common shares were available for
repurchase under the program. On Feb. 14, 2012, in order to continue with share repurchases under our 2011 capital plan, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 12 million shares of common stock, provided that the
aggregate shares repurchased are within the $1.3 billion 2011 capital plan. There is no expiration date on the share repurchase authorizations.

Risk management        Governance       Risk management and oversight begins with the Board of Directors and two key
Board committees: the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.      The Risk Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors and meets on
a regular basis to review and assess the control processes with respect to the Company s inherent risks. They also review and assess the risk management activities of the Company and the Company s fiduciary risk policies and

BNY
Mellon     57   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

activities. Policy formulation and day-to-day oversight of the Risk Management Framework is delegated to the Chief Risk Officer, who, together with the Chief Auditor and Chief Compliance Officer,
helps ensure an effective risk management governance structure. The roles and responsibilities of the Risk Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of which is available on our website, www.bnymellon.com.   
  The Audit Committee is also comprised entirely of independent directors, all of whom are financially literate within the meaning of the NYSE listing
standards, and two of whom have been determined to be audit committee financial experts as set out in the rules and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and to have accounting or related
financial management expertise within the meaning of the NYSE listing standards, and who have banking and financial management expertise within the meaning of the FDIC rules. The Audit Committee meets on a regular basis to perform an oversight
review of the integrity of the financial statements and financial reporting process, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, our independent registered public accountant s qualifications and independence, and the performance of our
registered public accountant and internal audit function. The Audit Committee also reviews management s assessment of the adequacy of internal controls. The functions of the Audit Committee are described in more detail in its charter, a copy of
which is available on our website, www.bnymellon.com.      The Senior Risk Management Committee ( SRMC ) is the most senior management
body responsible for ensuring that emerging risks are weighed against the corporate risk appetite and that any material amendments to the risk appetite statement are properly vetted and recommended to the Executive Committee and the Board for
approval. The SRMC also reviews any material breaches to our risk appetite and approves action plans required to remediate the issue. SRMC provides oversight for the risk management, compliance and ethics framework. The Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Risk Officer and Chief Financial Officer are among SRMC s members.       Risk appetite statement    
  BNY Mellon defines risk appetite as the level of risk it is normally willing to accept while pursuing the interests of our major stakeholders, including
our clients, shareholders, employees and regulators. The Company has adopted the following as its risk appetite statement:  Risk taking is a fundamental characteristic of providing financial services and

arises in every transaction we undertake. Our risk appetite is driven by the fact that we are a leading manager and servicer of global financial assets and play a major role in the global
marketplace. As a result, we are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet throughout market cycles and to delivering operational excellence to meet the expectations of our major stakeholders, including our clients, shareholders, employees and
regulators. The balance sheet will be characterized by strong liquidity, superior asset quality, ready access to external funding sources at competitive rates and a strong capital structure, that supports our risk taking activities and is adequate
to absorb potential losses. These characteristics support our goal of having superior debt ratings among our peers. To that end, the company s Risk Management Framework has been designed to:   

ensure that appropriate risk tolerances ( limits ) are in place to govern our risk taking activities across all businesses and risk types;

ensure that our risk appetite principles permeate the company s culture and are incorporated into our strategic decision-making processes;

ensure rigorous monitoring and reporting of key risk metrics to senior management and the board of directors; and      

ensure that there is an on-going, and forward-looking, capital planning process to support our risk taking activities. 
         Primary risk types       The understanding, identification and management of risk are essential elements for the successful management of BNY Mellon. Our primary risk categories are:   

Type of risk   
     
   Description    

Operational    
     
  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, human factors
and systems, breaches of technology and information systems, or from external events.   
 
     Market    
     
  The risk of loss due to adverse changes in the financial markets. Market risk arises
from derivative financial instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps and options, and other financial instruments, including loans, securities, deposits, and other borrowings. Our market risks are primarily interest rate and foreign exchange
risk, equity risk and credit risk.   
 
     Credit    
     
  The possible loss we would suffer if any of our borrowers or other counterparties were
to default on their obligations to us. Credit risk arises primarily from lending, trading, and securities servicing activities.   

58     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
    Operational risk        Overview       In providing a comprehensive array of products and services, we may be exposed
to operational risk. Operational risk may result from, but is not limited to, errors related to transaction processing, breaches of internal control systems and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside BNY Mellon or business
interruption due to system failures or other events. Operational risk may also include breaches of our technology and information systems resulting from unauthorized access to confidential information or from internal or external threats, such as
cyber attacks. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and/or regulatory requirements. In the case of an operational event, we could suffer a financial
loss as well as damage to our reputation.      To address these risks, we maintain comprehensive policies and procedures and an internal control
framework designed to provide a sound operational environment. These controls have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate levels given our financial strength, the business environment and markets in which we operate, the nature of
our businesses, and considering factors such as competition and regulation. Our internal auditors and internal control group monitor and test the overall effectiveness of the internal control and financial reporting systems on an ongoing basis.
     We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed
on a uniform basis. Among the procedures designed to ensure effectiveness are our  Code of Conduct,   Know Your Customer,  and compliance training programs.       Operational risk management       We have established operational risk management as an
independent risk discipline. The Operational Risk Management ( ORM ) Group and Information Risk Management ( IRM ) Group reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The organizational framework for operational risk is based upon a strong
risk culture that incorporates both governance and risk management activities comprising:       

Board Oversight and Governance   The Risk Committee of the Board approves and oversees our operational risk management strategy in

addition to credit and market risk. The Risk Committee meets regularly to review and approve operational risk management initiatives, discuss key risk issues, and review the effectiveness of the
risk management systems.      

Accountability of Businesses   Business managers are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal controls commensurate with their
risk profiles and in accordance with BNY Mellon policies and procedures.      

ORM Group   The ORM Group is responsible for developing risk management policies and tools for assessing, measuring, monitoring and managing
operational risk for BNY Mellon. The primary objectives of the ORM group are to promote effective risk management, identify emerging risks, create incentives for generating continuous improvement in controls, and to optimize capital.

IRM Group   The IRM Group is responsible for developing policies and tools for identifying, assessing, measuring and monitoring information and
technology risk for BNY Mellon. The IRM Group partners with the businesses to focus on three primary areas: access, information protection, and technology controls. The primary objectives of the IRM Group are to help maintain and protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the firm s information and technology assets from internal and external threats such as cyber attacks.          Market risk       In addition to the Risk Committee and SRMC, oversight of market risk is performed by
certain committees and through executive review meetings. Detailed reviews of derivative trading positions and of all model validations/stress tests results are conducted during the Global Markets Weekly Risk Review. Senior managers from Risk
Management, Finance and Sales and Trading attend the review.      Business Risk meetings for the Global Markets and Capital Markets businesses
also provide a forum for market risk oversight. The goal of Business Risk meetings, which are held at least quarterly, is to review key risk and control issues and related initiatives facing all lines of business including Global Markets and Capital
Markets. The following activities are also addressed during Business Risks meetings:       

Reporting of all new Monitoring Limits and changes to existing limits;

BNY
Mellon     59   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

Monitoring of trading exposures, VaR, market sensitivities and stress testing results; and      

Reporting results of all model validations.         The Derivatives Documentation Committee reviews and approves variations in the Company s documentation standards as it relates to derivative transactions. In addition, this committee reviews all
outstanding confirmations to identify potential exposure to the Company. Finally, the Risk Quantification and Modelling Committee validates and reviews backtesting results.       Credit risk       To balance the value of our activities with the credit risk incurred in pursuing them,
we set and monitor internal credit limits for activities that entail credit risk, most often on the size of the exposure and the maximum maturity of credit extended. For credit exposures driven by changing market rates and prices, exposure measures
include an add-on for such potential changes.      We manage credit risk at both the individual exposure level as well as at the portfolio level.
Credit risk at the individual exposure level is managed through our credit approval system of Credit Portfolio Managers ( CPMs ) and the Chief Credit Officer ( CCO ). The CPMs and CCO are responsible for approving the size, terms
and maturity of all credit exposures as well as the ongoing monitoring of the exposures. In addition, they are responsible for assigning and maintaining the risk ratings on each exposure.      Credit risk management at the portfolio level is supported by Enterprise Risk Architecture ( ERA ), formerly the Portfolio Management Division within the Risk Management and Compliance Sector.
The ERA is responsible for calculating two fundamental credit measures. First, we project a statistically expected credit loss, used to help determine the appropriate loan loss reserve and to measure customer profitability. Expected loss considers
three basic components: the estimated size of the exposure whenever default might occur, the probability of default before maturity and the severity of the loss we would incur, commonly called  loss given default.  For corporate banking,
where most of our credit risk is created, unfunded commitments are assigned a usage given default percentage. Borrowers/Counterparties are assigned ratings by CPMs and the CCO on an 18-grade scale, which translate to a scaled probability of default.
Additionally, transactions are assigned loss-given-default ratings (on a 12-grade scale) that

reflect the transactions  structures including the effects of guarantees, collateral, and relative seniority of position.      The second fundamental measurement of credit risk calculated by the ERA is called economic capital. Our economic capital model estimates the capital required to support the overall credit risk portfolio.
Using a Monte Carlo simulation engine and measures of correlation among borrower defaults, the economic model examines extreme and highly unlikely scenarios of portfolio credit loss in order to estimate credit-related capital, and then allocates
that capital to individual borrowers and exposures. The credit-related capital calculation supports a second tier of policy standards and limits by serving as an input to both profitability analysis and concentration limits of capital at risk with
any one borrower, industry or country.      The ERA is responsible for the calculation methodologies and the estimates of the inputs used in those
methodologies for the determination of expected loss and economic capital. These methodologies and input estimates are regularly evaluated to ensure their appropriateness and accuracy. As new techniques and data become available, the ERA attempts to
incorporate, where appropriate, those techniques or data.      Credit risk is intrinsic to much of the banking business. However, BNY Mellon seeks
to limit both on- and off-balance sheet credit risk through prudent underwriting and the use of capital only where risk-adjusted returns warrant. We seek to manage risk and improve our portfolio diversification through syndications, asset sales,
credit enhancements, credit derivatives, and active collateralization and netting agreements. In addition, we have a separate Credit Risk Review group, which is part of Internal Audit, made up of experienced loan review officers who perform timely
reviews of the loan files and credit ratings assigned to the loans.       Global compliance    
  Our global compliance function provides leadership, guidance, and oversight to help our businesses identify applicable laws and regulations and implement
effective measures to meet the specific requirements. Compliance takes a proactive approach by anticipating evolving regulatory standards and remaining aware of industry best practices, legislative initiatives, competitive issues, and public
expectations and perceptions. The function uses its global reach to   

60     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

disseminate information about compliance-related matters throughout BNY Mellon. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer reports to the Chief Risk Officer, is a member of key committees of BNY
Mellon and provides regular updates to the Audit and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors.       Internal audit    
  Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance function that reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Company s Board of Directors. It
assists the Company in accomplishing its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined, risk-based approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the Company s risk management, control, and governance processes. The scope of Internal
Audit s work includes the review and evaluation of the adequacy, effectiveness, and sustainability of risk management procedures, internal control systems, information systems and governance processes.   
   Economic capital       BNY Mellon has
implemented a methodology to quantify economic capital. We define economic capital as the capital required to protect against unexpected economic losses over a one-year period at a level consistent with the solvency of a firm with a target debt
rating. We quantify economic capital requirements for the risks inherent in our business activities using statistical modeling techniques and then aggregate them at the consolidated level. A capital reduction, or diversification benefit, is applied
to reflect the unlikely event of experiencing an extremely large loss in each type of risk at the same time. Economic capital levels are directly related to our risk profile. As such, it has become a part of our internal capital assessment process
and, along with regulatory capital, is a key component to ensuring that the actual level of capital is commensurate with our risk profile, and is sufficient to provide the financial flexibility to undertake future strategic business initiatives.
     The framework and methodologies to quantify each of our risk types have been developed by the ERA and are designed to be consistent with our
risk management principles. The framework has been approved by senior

management and has been reviewed by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. Due to the evolving nature of quantification techniques, we expect to continue to refine the methodologies used
to estimate our economic capital requirements.       Stress Testing       It is the policy of the company to perform Enterprise-Wide Stress Testing at regular intervals as part of its Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ( ICAAP ). Additionally, the company
performs or will perform an analysis of capital adequacy in a stressed environment in its Enterprise-wide Stress Test Framework, as required by the enhanced prudential standards issued pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, and as part of the annual
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ( CCAR ) process.      Enterprise-Wide Stress Testing performs analysis across the
company s Lines of Business, products, geographic areas, and risk types incorporating the results from the different underlying models and projections given a certain stress-test scenario. It is an important component of assessing the adequacy
of capital (as in the ICAAP) as well as identifying any high risk touch points in business activities. Furthermore, by integrating enterprise-wide stress testing into the company s capital planning process, the results provide a forward-looking
evaluation of the ability to complete planned capital actions in a more-adverse-than-anticipated economic environment.   
     Trading activities and risk management       Our trading activities are focused on acting as a market maker for our customers and facilitating customer trades. Positions managed for our own account are immaterial to our foreign exchange and other
trading revenue and to our overall results of operations. The risk from market-making activities for customers is managed by our traders and limited in total exposure through a system of position limits, a value-at-risk ( VaR ) methodology
based on a Monte Carlo simulation, stop loss advisory triggers, and other market sensitivity measures. See Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the VaR methodology.

BNY
Mellon     61   

Results of Operations
   (continued)           

The following tables indicate the calculated VaR amounts for the trading portfolio for the years ended Dec.
31, 2011 and 2010.       

(a)   
   VAR figures do not reflect the impact of CVA guidance in ASC 820. This is consistent with the Regulatory treatment. VAR exposure does not include the impact of the
Company s consolidated investment management funds and seed capital investments.      

N/M   
   - Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.
        During 2011, interest rate risk generated 56% of average VaR, equity risk generated 23% of average VaR, foreign exchange
risk accounted for 20% of average VaR and credit risk generated 1% of average VaR. During 2011, our daily trading loss did not exceed our calculated VaR amount of the overall portfolio on any given day.   
  BNY Mellon monitors a volatility index of global currency using a basket of 30 major currencies. In 2011, the volatility of this index decreased
approximately 5 basis points from 2010.   
 
   The following table of total daily trading revenue or loss illustrates the number of trading days in which
our trading revenue or loss fell within particular ranges during the past year.       

(a)   
   Distribution of trading revenues (losses) does not reflect the impact of the CVA and corresponding hedge.      
   Foreign exchange and other trading       Under our
mark-to-market methodology for derivative contracts, an initial  risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on a AA credit curve. In addition, we consider credit risk in arriving at the fair value
of our derivatives.      As required by ASC 820    Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , we reflect external credit ratings as well
as observable credit default swap spreads for both ourselves as well as our counterparties when measuring the fair value of our derivative positions.      Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative positions is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads, as well as those of our counterparties. In addition, in cases where a counterparty is
deemed impaired, further analyses are performed to value such positions.      At Dec. 31, 2011, our over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative
assets of $7.0 billion included a CVA deduction of $182 million, including $8 million related to the credit quality of certain CDO counterparties and Lehman. Our OTC derivative liabilities of $7.4 billion included a debit valuation adjustment
( DVA ) of $46 million related to our own credit spread. Net of hedges, the CVA increased $11

62     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

million and the DVA was unchanged in 2011. The net impact of these adjustments decreased foreign exchange and other trading revenue by $11 million in 2011. In 2011, we charged-off a $15 million
realized loss against the CVA reserves.      At Dec. 31, 2010, our OTC derivative assets of $4.3 billion included a CVA deduction of $78 million,
including $27 million related to the declining credit quality of CDO counterparties and Lehman. Our OTC derivative liabilities of $5.3 billion included a DVA of $30 million related to our own credit spread. In 2010,

we charged-off a $39 million realized loss against the CVA reserves. Excluding the charge-off, the CVA, net of hedges, decreased foreign exchange and other trading revenue $5 million in 2010.
     The table below summarizes the risk ratings for our foreign exchange and interest rate derivative counterparty credit exposure. This
information indicates the degree of risk to which we are exposed and significant changes in ratings classifications for which our foreign exchange and other trading activity could result in increased risk for us.

(a)   
   Represents credit rating agency equivalent of internal credit ratings.      

Asset/liability management       Our diversified business activities include processing securities, accepting deposits, investing in securities, lending, raising money as needed to fund assets, and other transactions. The market risks
from these activities are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk. Our primary market risk is exposure to movements in U.S. dollar interest rates and certain foreign currency interest rates. We actively manage interest rate sensitivity and use
earnings simulation and discounted cash flow models to identify interest rate exposures.      An earnings simulation model is the primary tool
used to assess changes in pre-tax net interest revenue. The model incorporates management s assumptions regarding interest rates, balance changes on core deposits, market spreads, changes in the prepayment behavior of loans and securities and
the impact of derivative financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes. These assumptions have been developed through a combination of historical analysis and future expected pricing behavior and are inherently uncertain. As
a result, the earnings simulation model cannot precisely estimate net interest revenue or the impact of higher or lower interest rates on net interest revenue. Actual results may differ from projected results due to timing, magnitude and frequency
of interest rate changes, and

changes in market conditions and management s strategies, among other factors.   
  These scenarios do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations change. The table below relies
on certain critical assumptions regarding the balance sheet and depositors  behavior related to interest rate fluctuations and the prepayment and extension risk in certain of our assets. To the extent that actual behavior is different from that
assumed in the models, there could be a change in interest rate sensitivity.      We evaluate the effect on earnings by running various interest
rate ramp scenarios from a baseline scenario. These scenarios are reviewed to examine the impact of large interest rate movements. Interest rate sensitivity is quantified by calculating the change in pre-tax net interest revenue between the
scenarios over a 12-month measurement period.      The following table shows net interest revenue sensitivity for BNY Mellon:   

(a)   
   Long-term is equal to or greater than one year.

BNY
Mellon     63   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 
 
   The baseline scenario s Fed Funds rate in the Dec. 31, 2011 analysis was 0.25%. The 100 basis point
ramp scenario assumes short-term rates change 25 basis points in each of the next four quarters and the 200 basis point ramp scenario assumes a 50 basis point per quarter change. At Dec. 31, 2011, the up 200 basis point and the up 100 basis point
scenarios assume 10-year rates rising 187 and 87 basis points, respectively.      We also project future cash flows from our assets and
liabilities over a long-term horizon and then discount these cash flows using instantaneous parallel shocks to prevailing interest rates. This measure reflects the structural balance sheet interest rate sensitivity by discounting all future cash
flows. The aggregation of these discounted cash flows is the Economic Value of Equity ( EVE ). The following table shows how the EVE would change in response to changes in interest rates:   
   
    These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate expectations
change.      The asymmetrical accounting treatment of the impact of a change in interest rates on our balance sheet may create a situation in
which an increase in interest rates can adversely affect reported equity and regulatory capital, even though economically there may be no impact on our economic capital position. For example, an increase in rates will result in a decline in the
value of our fixed income investment portfolio, which will be reflected through a reduction in other comprehensive income in our shareholders  equity, thereby affecting our tangible common equity ( TCE ) ratios. Under current
accounting rules, to the extent the fair value option provided in ASC 825 is not applied, there is no corresponding change on our fixed liabilities, even though economically these liabilities are more valuable as rates rise.   
  We project the impact of this change using the same interest rate shock assumptions described earlier and compare the projected mark-to-market on the
investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2011, under the higher rate environments versus a stable rate scenario. The table below shows the impact of a change in interest rates on the TCE ratio:   

These results do not reflect strategies that management could employ to limit the impact as interest rate
expectations change.      To manage foreign exchange risk, we fund foreign currency-denominated assets with liability instruments denominated in
the same currency. We utilize various foreign exchange contracts if a liability denominated in the same currency is not available or desired, and to minimize the earnings impact of translation gains or losses created by investments in foreign
markets. The foreign exchange risk related to the interest rate spread on foreign currency-denominated asset/liability positions is managed as part of our trading activities. We use forward foreign exchange contracts to protect the value of our net
investment in foreign operations. At Dec. 31, 2011, net investments in foreign operations totaled approximately $10 billion and were spread across 13 foreign currencies.         Business continuity       We are prepared for events that could damage our
physical facilities, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, including telecommunications networks, or impair our employees, clients, vendors and counterparties. Key elements of our business continuity strategies are extensive planning
and testing, and diversity of business operations, data centers and telecommunications infrastructure.      We have established multiple
geographically diverse locations for our funds transfer and broker-dealer services operational units, which provide redundant functionality to facilitate uninterrupted operations.      Our securities clearing, mutual fund accounting and custody, securities lending, master trust, Unit Investment Trust, corporate trust, item processing, wealth management and treasury units have common
functionality in multiple sites designed to facilitate continuance of operations or rapid recovery. In addition, we have recovery positions for over 14,400 employees on a global basis of which over 8,200 are proprietary.   
  We continue to enhance geographic diversity for business operations by moving additional personnel to growth centers outside of existing major urban
centers. We replicate 100% of our critical production computer data to multiple recovery data centers.      We have an active telecommunications
diversity program. All major buildings and data centers have diverse telecommunications carriers. The data centers

64     BNY Mellon   

Results of Operations    (continued)                 

have multiple fiber optic rings and have been designed so that there is no single point of failure.      All major buildings have been designed with diverse telecommunications access and connect to at least two geographically dispersed connection points. We have an active program to audit circuits for route
diversity and to test customer back-up connections.      In 2003, the Federal Reserve, OCC and SEC jointly published the Interagency Paper,
 Sound Practices to Strengthen the Resilience of the U.S. Financial System  ( Sound Practices Paper ). The purpose of the document was to define the guidelines for the financial services industry and other interested parties
regarding  best practices  related to business continuity planning. Under these guidelines, we are a key clearing and settlement organization required to meet a higher standard for business continuity.   
  We believe we have substantially met all of the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper. As a core clearing and settlement organization, we believe
that we are at the forefront of the industry in improving business continuity practices.      We are committed to seeing that requirements for
business continuity are met not just within our own facilities, but also within those of vendors and service

providers whose operation is critical to our safety and soundness. To that end, we have a Service Provider Management Office whose function is to review new and existing service providers and
vendors to see that they meet our standards for business continuity, as well as for information security, financial stability, and personnel practices, etc.      We have developed a comprehensive plan to prepare for the possibility of a flu pandemic, which anticipates significant reduced staffing levels and will provide for increased remote working by staff for
one or more periods lasting several weeks.      Although we are committed to observing best practices as well as meeting regulatory requirements,
geopolitical uncertainties and other external factors will continue to create risk that cannot always be identified and anticipated.      Due to
BNY Mellon s robust business recovery systems and processes, we are not materially impacted by climate change, nor do we expect material impacts in the near term. We have, and will continue to, implement processes and capital projects to deal
with the risks of the changing climate. The company has invested in the development of products and services that support the markets related to climate change.

BNY
Mellon     65   

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    

Explanation of Non-GAAP financial measures    
  BNY Mellon has included in this Annual Report certain Non-GAAP financial measures based upon tangible common shareholders  equity. BNY Mellon
believes that the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets and the ratio of tangible common shareholders  equity to tangible assets of operations are measures of capital strength that provide additional useful information to
investors, supplementing the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios which are utilized by regulatory authorities. The ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets excludes trust preferred securities, which will be phased out as Tier 1 regulatory
capital beginning in 2013. Unlike the Tier 1 and Total capital ratios, the tangible common shareholders  equity ratio fully incorporates those changes in investment securities valuations which are reflected in total shareholders  equity.
In addition, this ratio is expressed as a percentage of the actual book value of assets, as opposed to a percentage of a risk-based reduced value established in accordance with regulatory requirements, although BNY Mellon in its calculation has
excluded certain assets which are given a zero percent risk-weighting for regulatory purposes. Further, BNY Mellon believes that the return on tangible common equity measure, which excludes goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred tax
liabilities, is a useful additional measure for investors because it presents a measure of BNY Mellon s performance in reference to those assets which are productive in generating income. BNY Mellon has presented its estimated Basel III Tier 1
common equity ratio on a basis that is representative of how it currently understands the Basel III rules. Management views the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio as a key measure in monitoring BNY Mellon s capital position. Additionally, the
presentation of the Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio allows investors to compare BNY Mellon s Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio with estimates presented by other companies. See  Capital  for a reconciliation of total Tier 1
capital   Basel I to total estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity and total risk-weighted assets   Basel I to total estimated Basel III risk-weighted assets.      BNY Mellon has provided a measure of tangible book value per share, which it believes provides additional useful information as to the level of such assets in relation to shares of common stock
outstanding. BNY Mellon has presented revenue measures, which exclude the effect of net securities gains (losses), SILO/LILO charges and noncontrolling interests

related to consolidated investment management funds; expense measures which exclude restructuring charges, support agreement charges, asset-based taxes, M I expenses, and amortization of
intangible assets; and measures which utilize net income excluding tax items such as the benefit of tax settlements and discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages. Return on equity measures and operating margin measures which exclude
some or all of these items are also presented. BNY Mellon believes that these measures are useful to investors because they permit a focus on period to period comparisons which relate to the ability of BNY Mellon to enhance revenues and limit
expenses in circumstances where such matters are within BNY Mellon s control. The excluded items in general relate to certain ongoing charges as a result of prior transactions or valuation or other charges unrelated to operational initiatives.
M I expenses primarily relate to the 2007 Merger and the Acquisitions in 2010. M I expenses generally continue for approximately three years after the transaction and can vary on a year-to-year basis depending on the stage of the
integration. BNY Mellon believes that the exclusion of M I expenses provides investors with a focus on BNY Mellon s business as it would appear on a consolidated going-forward basis, after such M I expenses have ceased. Future periods
will not reflect such M I expenses, and thus may be more easily compared to our current results if M I expenses are excluded. With regards to the exclusion of net securities gains (losses), BNY Mellon s primary businesses are Investment
Management and Investment Services. The management of these businesses is evaluated on the basis of the ability of these businesses to generate fee and net interest revenue and to control expenses, and not on the results of BNY Mellon s
investment securities portfolio. The investment securities portfolio is managed within the Other segment. The primary objective of the investment securities portfolio is to generate net interest revenue from the liquidity generated by BNY
Mellon s processing businesses. BNY Mellon does not generally originate or trade the securities in the investment securities portfolio. Restructuring charges relate to our operational efficiency initiatives, migrating positions to global growth
centers and the elimination of certain positions. Excluding these charges permits investors to view expense on a basis consistent with how management views the business. Excluding the discrete tax benefits related to a tax loss on mortgages and the
benefit of tax settlements permits investors to calculate the tax impact of BNY Mellon s primary businesses.   

BNY
Mellon     66   

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 
 
   The presentation of income of consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests
related to the consolidation of certain investment management funds, permits investors to view revenue on a basis consistent with prior periods. BNY Mellon believes that these presentations, as a supplement to GAAP information, gives investors a
clearer picture of the results of its primary businesses.   
 
   In this Annual Report, certain amounts are presented on an FTE basis. We believe that this presentation
provides comparability of amounts arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources, and is consistent with industry practice. The adjustment to an FTE basis has no impact on net income.      Each of these measures as described above is used by management to monitor financial performance, both on a company-wide and business-level basis.

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      
         BNY
Mellon     67   

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Results for 2007 include six months of BNY Mellon and six months of legacy The Bank of New York Company, Inc.      

(b)   
   Income (loss) before taxes divided by total revenue.         The following table presents income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling interests.       

Income from consolidated investment management funds, net of
noncontrolling interests            (dollars in millions)      
      
   2011   

2010  

2009  

Income from operations of consolidated investment management funds   
      
   $   
   200   

$  
  226  

$  
  -  

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated investment
management funds   

50   

59  

-  

Income from consolidated investment management funds, net of noncontrolling
interests   
      
   $   
   150   

$  
  167  

$  
  -  
       
    The following table presents the line items in the Investment Management business impacted by the consolidated investment
management funds.       

68     BNY Mellon   

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 

(a)   
   Assigned a zero percentage risk weighting by the regulators.          

BNY
Mellon     69   

Supplemental Information (unaudited)    (continued)                 
      Rate/volume analysis    

(a)   
   Changes which are solely due to balance changes or rate changes are allocated to such categories on the basis of the respective percentage changes in average
balances and average rates. Changes in interest revenue or interest expense arising from the combination of rate and volume variances are allocated proportionately to rate and volume based on their relative absolute magnitudes.

70     BNY Mellon   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments    

Recently Issued Accounting Standards     
   ASU 2011-04 Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs    
  In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04,  Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and
IFRSs.  This ASU intends to improve consistency in the application of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The ASU clarifies the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements
including 1) the application of concepts of highest and best use and valuation premise in a fair value measurement are relevant only when measuring the fair value of non-financial assets and are not relevant when measuring the fair value of
financial assets or any liabilities, 2) measuring the fair value of an instrument classified in shareholders  equity from the perspective of a market participant that holds that instrument as an asset, and 3) disclosures about quantitative
information regarding the unobservable inputs used in a fair value measurement that is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The guidance in this ASU is effective for the first interim and annual period beginning after Dec. 15,
2011, and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is not permitted. This ASU will have no impact on our results of operations.       ASU
2011-05 Presentation of Comprehensive Income       In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05,  Presentation of Comprehensive
Income.  This ASU is aimed at increasing the prominence of other comprehensive income in the financial statements. The new guidance eliminates the option to present comprehensive income and its components in the Statement of Changes in
Shareholders  Equity, and requires the disclosure of comprehensive income and its components in one of two ways: a single continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. The single continuous statement would present other
comprehensive income and its components on the income statement. Under the two-statement approach, the first statement would include components of net income and the second statement would include other comprehensive income and its components. The
ASU does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income. This ASU will have no impact on our results of operations.

The guidance in this ASU is effective for the first interim and annual period beginning after Dec. 15,
2011, and should be applied retrospectively for all periods presented in the financial statements. Early adoption is permitted.       ASU
2011-12 Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in ASU 2011-05       In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12,  Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in ASU
2011-05 . This ASU defers the effective date of the requirement to present separate line items on the income statement for reclassification adjustments of items out of accumulated other comprehensive income into net income. The deferral is
temporary until the Board reconsiders the operational concerns and needs of financial statement users. The Board has not yet established a timetable for its reconsideration. The requirements to present other comprehensive income in a single
continuous statement or two consecutive statements and other requirements of ASU 2011-05, as amended by ASU 2011-12, are effective for public entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after Dec. 15, 2011.
      ASU 2011-08 Testing for Goodwill Impairment       In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08,  Testing for Goodwill Impairment , which amends the guidance in ASC 350 for goodwill impairment. Under the revised guidance, entities testing
goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit (i.e., Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test). If entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that
the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two-step impairment test would be required. The ASU does not change how goodwill is calculated or assigned to reporting units, or the annual requirement
to test goodwill for impairment. In addition, the ASU does not amend the requirement to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events or circumstances warrant; however, it does revise the examples of events and circumstances that an
entity should consider. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after Dec. 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted.

BNY
Mellon     71   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

ASU 2011-11 Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities    
  In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11,  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities . Entities are required to disclose both
gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the balance sheet and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. This scope would include
derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements and reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending arrangements. The objective of this disclosure is to facilitate comparison between those entities that prepare
their financial statements on the basis of U.S. GAAP and those entities that prepare their financial statements on the basis of IFRS. The amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2013. An entity would be
required to provide the disclosures required by those amendments retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. This ASU will not impact our results of operations.        Proposed Accounting Standards         Proposed ASU Accounting for Financial
Instruments and Revisions to the Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities       In May 2010, the FASB issued a proposed
ASU,  Accounting for Financial Instruments and Revisions to the Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  Under this proposed ASU, most financial instruments would be measured at fair value in the balance sheet. In
January 2011, the FASB preliminarily determined not to require certain financial assets to be measured at fair value on the balance sheet.   
  Measurement of a financial instrument would be determined based on its characteristics and an entity s business strategy and would fall into one of
the following three classifications:       

Fair value Net income encompasses financial assets used in an entity s trading or held-for-sale activities. Changes in fair value would
be recognized in net income.      

Fair value Other comprehensive income includes financial assets held primarily for investing activities, including those used to manage
interest rate or liquidity risk. Changes in fair value would be recognized in other comprehensive income.

Amortized cost includes financial assets related to the advancement of funds (through a lending or customer-financing activity) that are managed
with the intent to collect those cash flows (including interest and fees).         The FASB reached tentative decisions in other
areas including classification and measurement of financial liabilities and the equity method of accounting.      The FASB tentatively decided
that the business strategy should be determined by the business activities that an entity uses in acquiring and managing financial assets. The FASB plans to reexpose the proposed amendments for public comment. Both the FASB and the International
Accounting Standards Board ( IASB ) discussed effective dates pertaining to the financial instruments project and noted that such a date would not be for several years.       Supplementary Document Impairment       On Jan. 31, 2011, the FASB issued a Supplementary
Document,  Impairment.  The Supplementary Document proposes to replace the incurred loss impairment model under U.S. GAAP with an expected loss impairment model. The document focuses on when and how credit impairment should be recognized.
The proposal is limited to open portfolios of assets such as portfolios that are constantly changing, through originations, purchases, transfers, write-offs, sales and repayments. The proposal in the Supplementary Document would apply to loans and
debt instruments under U.S. GAAP that are managed on an  open  portfolio basis provided they are not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. In the second quarter of 2011, the FASB and IASB revised the
model from a two category approach for splitting the debt investment portfolio to a three category approach to better reflect the general pattern of credit quality deterioration. Both the FASB and the IASB continue to discuss alternate impairment
models and have not reached a tentative decision. An exposure draft with the new proposed model is targeted for 2012.       Proposed
ASU Revenue from Contracts with Customers       In June 2010, the FASB issued a proposed ASU,  Revenue from Contracts with
Customers.  This proposed ASU is the result of a joint project of the FASB and IASB to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and develop a common standard

72     BNY Mellon   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

for U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This proposed ASU would establish a broad principle that would require an entity to identify the contract with a customer, identify the separate performance obligations in
the contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the separate performance obligations and recognize revenue when each separate performance obligation is satisfied. In 2011, the FASB and IASB revised several aspects of
the original proposal to include distinguishing between goods and services, segmenting contracts, accounting for warranty obligations, and deferring contract origination costs.      In November 2011, the FASB re-exposed the proposed ASU with a comment period ending on March 13, 2012. A final standard is expected to be issued in the second half of 2012. A retrospective
application transition method would be required, but the FASB and IASB provided certain  transition reliefs  to reduce the burden on preparers. The FASB and IASB tentatively decided that the effective date of the proposed standard would
not be earlier than annual reporting periods beginning on or after Jan. 1, 2015. The FASB decided to prohibit early application while the IASB decided to permit early application.       Proposed ASU Principal versus Agent Analysis       In November 2011, the FASB issued a
proposed ASU  Principal versus Agent Analysis . This proposed ASU would rescind the 2010 indefinite deferral of FAS 167 for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, hedge funds, mortgage real estate investment funds, private
equity funds, and venture capital funds, and amends the pre-existing guidance for evaluating consolidation of voting general partnerships and similar entities. The proposed ASU also amends the criteria for determining whether an entity is a variable
interest entity under FAS 167, which could affect whether an entity is within its scope. Accordingly, certain funds that previously were not consolidated must be reviewed to determine whether they will now be required to be consolidated. The
proposed accounting standard will continue to require BNY Mellon to determine whether or not it has a variable interest in a variable interest entity. However, consolidation of its variable interest entity and voting general partnership asset
management funds will be based on whether or not BNY Mellon, as the asset manager, uses its power as a decision maker as either a principal or an agent. Based on a preliminary review of the proposed ASU, we do not expect to be required to
consolidate additional mutual funds, hedge funds, mortgage real estate investment

funds, private equity funds, and venture capital funds. In addition, we expect to de-consolidate a substantial portion of the CLOs we currently consolidate, with further deconsolidation possible
depending on future changes to BNY Mellon s investment in subordinated notes. Comments on this ASU were due on Feb. 15, 2012.   
   Proposed ASU Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment       In January 2012, the FASB issued a proposed ASU  Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment . This ASU provides guidance on indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing
with the intention of simplifying the impairment assessment and reducing the recurring costs to comply with existing guidance while improving the consistency of testing methods among long-lived asset categories. The ASU would allow an organization
the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test. A company electing to perform a qualitative assessment would not be required to calculate the fair value of an
indefinite-lived intangible asset unless the company determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is  more likely than not  that the asset s fair value is less than its carrying amount. This ASU would be effective for annual
and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2012. Early adoption would be permitted. Comments on this ASU are due on April 24, 2012.       FASB and IASB project on Leases       In August 2010, the FASB and IASB issued a joint proposed
ASU,  Leases . FASB has tentatively decided that lessees would apply a  right-of-use  accounting model. This would require the lessee to recognize both a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability to make lease payments at
the lease commencement date, both measured at the present value of the lease payments. The right-of-use asset would be amortized on a systematic basis that would reflect the pattern of consumption of the economic benefits of the leased asset. The
liability to make lease payments would be subsequently de-recognized over time by applying the effective interest method to apportion the periodic payment to reductions in the liability to make lease payments and interest expense. Lessors would
account for leases by applying a  receivable and residual  accounting approach. The lessor would recognize a right to receive lease payments and a residual asset at the date

BNY
Mellon     73   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

of the commencement of the lease. The lessor would initially measure the right to receive lease payments at the sum of the present value of the lease payments, discounted using the rate the
lessor charges the lessee. The lessor would initially measure the residual asset as an allocation of the carrying amount of the underlying asset and would subsequently measure the residual asset by accreting it over the lease term, using the rate
the lessor charges the lessee. The FASB is expected to reexpose the standard during 2012. A final standard is expected by the end of 2012.   
   Adoption of new accounting standards    
  For a discussion of the adoption of new accounting standards, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Regulatory developments        Evolving regulatory
environment       On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services
industry by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a resolution authority for institutions determined to be systemically important, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to
regulatory agencies and containing numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. It will fundamentally change the system of oversight described under  Business Supervision and
Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Many aspects of the law are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact and
increased expenses to BNY Mellon or across the industry.      In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the  Basel
Committee ) released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as  Basel III . Basel III is also described below and under  Business
  Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K.      We are currently assessing the
following regulatory developments, which may have an impact on BNY Mellon s business.

Federal Reserve s Enhanced Prudential Standards and Early Remediation Requirements for Covered
Companies       As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) makes recommendations to the
Federal Reserve as to enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected financial institutions, including bank holding companies ( BHCs ) like BNY Mellon, with total consolidated assets of $50 billion (often
referred to as  systemically important financial institutions ). The FSOC also authorizes the Federal Reserve to establish such standards either on its own or upon the recommendations of the FSOC. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the
requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued for public comment a notice of proposed rulemaking
establishing enhanced prudential standards responsive to these provisions for:       

risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits;      

stress testing of capital;      

liquidity requirements;      

overall risk management requirements; and      

concentration/credit exposure limits.         Comments on the proposed rules, which we refer to as the  Proposed SIFI Rules , are due by March 31, 2012. The Proposed SIFI Rules address a wide, diverse array of regulatory areas, each of
which is highly complex. In some cases they would implement financial regulatory requirements being proposed for the first time, and in others overlap with other regulatory reforms. The Proposed SIFI Rules also address The Dodd-Frank Act s
early remediation requirements applicable to BHCs that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The proposed remediation rules are designed to require action beginning in the earlier stages of a company s financial distress by
mandating action on the basis of arranged triggers, including capital and leverage, stress test results, liquidity and risk management. We are analyzing the impact of the Proposed SIFI Rules on our businesses. However, the full impact will not be
known until the rules, and other regulatory initiatives that overlap with the rules, are finalized and their combined impacts can be assessed.

74     BNY Mellon   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

Resolution Planning       As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve and FDIC have jointly issued a final rule that requires certain organizations, including each BHC with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, to
report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. BNY Mellon s resolution plan must, among other things, ensure that our depository institution
subsidiaries are adequately protected from risks arising from our other subsidiaries. The final rule sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan s components, a description of the range
of specific actions the company proposes to take in resolution, and a description of the company s organizational structure, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.
     In addition, the FDIC has issued a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as
The Bank of New York Mellon, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution s failure. The rule requires these insured institutions to submit a resolution plan that will enable the FDIC, as receiver, to
resolve the bank in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution s failure, maximizes the net-present-value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and
minimizes the amount of any loss to be realized by the institution s creditors. The final rule also sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan s components, a description of the
strategies for achieving the least costly resolution, and analyses of the financial company s organization, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.   
  The two resolution plan rules are complementary and we have commenced work on our initial resolution plans. We expect that our initial plans will be
required to be submitted to the regulators by early in the fourth quarter of 2012.       Federal Reserve s Comprehensive Capital Assessment
Review       In November 2011, the Federal Reserve published a final rule requiring BHCs (including BNY Mellon) with $50 billion or more of
total consolidated assets to

submit annual capital plans to their respective Federal Reserve Bank. The capital analysis and review process provided for in the rule is known as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review,
or  CCAR . The capital plans are required to be submitted on an annual basis. Such BHCs will also be required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor the companies 
progress against their annual capital plans. The comprehensive capital plans, which are prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, include a view of capital adequacy under four scenarios a BHC-defined baseline scenario, a baseline scenario
provided by the Federal Reserve, at least one BHC-defined stress scenario, and a stress scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. Covered BHCs, including BNY Mellon, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that
has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve and as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. The rules provide that the Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will meet all minimum regulatory
capital ratios and maintain a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5% on a  pro forma  basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan.
The rules also require, among other things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common equity
to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. As part of this process, BNY Mellon also provides the Federal Reserve with projections covering the time period it will take us to fully comply with Basel III guidelines, including the 7% Tier 1 common equity,
8.5% Tier 1 capital and 3% leverage ratios as well as granular components of those elements, as described further under  Capital and liquidity requirements Basel III . Our capital plan was submitted on Jan. 9, 2012.   
  The purpose of the Federal Reserve s capital plan review is to ensure that these BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that
account for each BHC s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The CCAR rule, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board guidance, provides that capital plans contemplating dividend
payout ratios exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.      The Proposed SIFI Rules, discussed
earlier, would also include the stress testing requirements that,   

BNY
Mellon     75   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

among other things, stress test under a severely adverse scenario provided by the Federal Reserve. It also would require a semi-annual mid-year stress analysis.   
   Proposed rules removing references to credit ratings       The Dodd-Frank Act requires that all Federal agencies remove from their regulations references to and requirements of reliance on credit ratings and replace them with appropriate alternatives for
evaluating creditworthiness. The Federal banking agencies have recently issued notices of proposed rulemaking ( NPRs ) (and applicable related guidance) in connection with implementing these requirements. In December 2011, the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), Federal Reserve, and FDIC issued a joint NPR applicable to certain U.S. banking organizations with significant trading operations that proposed standards of creditworthiness to be used in place of
credit ratings when calculating the specific risk capital requirements for covered debt and securitization positions. In November 2011, the OCC issued an NPR that proposed replacing references to credit ratings with alternative standards of
creditworthiness for areas of OCC regulations such as regulations pertaining to investment securities, securities offerings, and foreign bank capital equivalency deposits. The comment period for these two NPRs closed Feb. 3, 2012 and Dec. 29, 2011,
respectively.       Incentive Compensation Arrangements Proposal       The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal regulators to prescribe regulations or guidelines regarding incentive-based compensation practices at certain financial institutions. On April 14, 2011, federal
regulators including the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the SEC, jointly issued a proposed rule which, among other things, would require certain executive officers of covered financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or
more, such as ours, to defer at least 50% of their annual incentive-based compensation for a minimum of three years. The comment period on the proposed rule closed May 31, 2011. A final rule has not yet been issued.   
   Task Force on Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure       Regulatory agencies worldwide have begun to re-examine systemic risks to various financial markets. One of the markets that regulatory agencies are reviewing, and in which we participate as a clearing and
custody bank, is the tri-party repurchase

transaction market, or tri-party repo market. From 2009 until recently, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York sponsored a Task Force on Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure Reform to examine the risks in
the tri-party repo market and to decide what changes should be implemented so that such risks may be mitigated or avoided in future financial crises. The Task Force issued recommendations regarding the tri-party repo market. BNY Mellon is working to
implement the Task Force s recommendations on its tri-party repo business activities.      Since May 2010, the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York has released monthly reports on the tri-party repo market, including information on aggregate volumes of collateral used in all tri-party repo transactions by asset class, concentrations, and margin levels, which is available at http://www.
newyorkfed.org/tripartyrepo/margin_data.html.       Consumer Financial Protection Bureau    
  In July 2011, our depository institutions were notified that they will be supervised by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ) for
certain consumer protection purposes.      The CFPB informed us it will focus on:   

risks to consumers and compliance with the Federal consumer financial laws, when it evaluates the policies and practices of a financial institution;

the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets; and      

depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services; depository institutions with a more specialized focus;
and non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services.          Capital and liquidity requirements
      The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies  risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 Capital Accord of the Basel
Committee. The Basel Committee issued in June 2004, and updated in November 2005, a revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known as Basel II that sets capital requirements for operational risk and refines the existing capital requirements
for credit risk. In the United States, regulators are mandating the adoption of Basel II for  core  banks such as BNY Mellon and its depository

76     BNY Mellon   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

institution subsidiaries. The only approach available to  core  banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based ( A-IRB ) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement
Approach ( AMA ) for operational risk. Additional information on Basel II and Basel III is presented below.       Basel II    
  In the United States, Basel II became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2009 was the first year for a bank to begin its first of
three transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old guidelines and new guidelines. In response to Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal banking
regulatory agencies adopted a final rule that establishes a floor for the risk-based capital requirements applicable to the largest, internationally active banking organizations. Generally, the impact of this rule is that the banking agencies have
amended their capital rules to provide that minimum capital, as required under the Basel I-based rules, will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with U.S. Basel II rules. Accordingly, the transition for
 core  banks to calculations only under the Basel II-based requirements is being eliminated.      We have implemented the Basel II
Standardized Approach in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Luxembourg and Ireland. In the U.S., BNY Mellon began the Basel II parallel run in the second quarter of 2010. Our capital models are currently with the Federal Reserve for their approval. Under
Basel II guidelines, our risk-weighted assets for credit risk exposures are expected to decline. However, we expect the Basel II requirement that operational risk be included in risk-weighted assets will more than offset the decline in credit
exposure. Under Basel I, securitizations that fall below investment grade are included in risk-weighted assets. Under Basel II, securitizations that fall below investment grade are deducted 50% from Tier 1 and 50% from total capital.   
  Based on our current estimates for Basel II at Dec. 31, 2011, our Tier 1 and Total capital ratios would have exceeded well-capitalized guidelines.
      Basel III       Under Basel III standards,
when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, banking institutions will be required to satisfy four risk-based capital ratios:       

A Tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 7.0%, 4.5% attributable to a minimum Tier 1 common

equity ratio and 2.5% attributable to a  capital conservation buffer       

A Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6.0%, exclusive of the capital conservation buffer (8.5% upon full implementation of the capital conservation
buffer);      

A total capital ratio of at least 8.0%, exclusive of the capital conservation buffer (10.5% upon full implementation of the capital conservation
buffer); and      

As a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average balance sheet exposures
plus certain average off-balance sheet exposures.         Basel III also provides for a  countercyclical capital buffer, 
generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a Tier 1 capital add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5%
when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).      The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb
losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a Tier 1 common equity ratio above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the
latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.      The phase-in
of the new rules is to commence on Jan. 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:       

3.5% Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets;      

4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and      

8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.         The phase-in of the capital conservation buffer will commence on Jan. 1, 2016, and the rules will be fully phased-in by Jan. 1, 2019.      On July 19, 2011, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document setting forth proposals to apply a new Tier 1 common equity surcharge to certain global systemically important banks
( G-SIBs ), and on Nov. 4, 2011 the Basel Committee issued final provisions substantially unchanged from the

BNY
Mellon     77   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

proposals. In its Proposed SIFI Rules, the Federal Reserve indicated that it intends to propose, in a separate rulemaking, a Tier 1 common equity surcharge for G-SIBs based on the Basel
Committee s proposal. G-SIBs subject to the surcharge would be identified by application of a quantitative  indicator-based approach  comprised of five broad categories of indicators cross-jurisdictional activity, size,
interconnectedness, substitutability and complexity. Each G-SIB would initially be assigned to one of four  buckets , with the capital surcharges for those buckets ranging from 1% to 2.5%. There would be an additional 3.5% bucket that
would initially be empty but that could be applied to a G-SIB that increases materially its global systemic importance in the future, for example, by increasing total assets. The G-SIB equity surcharge provisions, like the rest of Basel III and the
Dodd-Frank Act provisions referenced above, are subject to interpretation and implementation by U.S. regulatory authorities. In a companion release on Nov. 4, 2011 addressing progress on a variety of financial regulatory reforms relating to globally
systemically important financial institutions, the Financial Stability Board released a list of 29 such institutions that included BNY Mellon and indicated that it used the G-SIB surcharge methodology in creating the list.   
  Under Basel III, certain items, to the extent they exceed 10% of Tier 1 common equity individually, or 15% of Tier 1 common equity in the aggregate,
would be deducted from our capital. These items include:       

Deferred tax assets dependent on future taxable income; and      

Significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions.         At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon did not exceed either threshold.      Also, pension assets recorded on
the balance sheet are a deduction from capital, and Basel III does not add back to capital the adjustment to other comprehensive income that Basel I and Basel II make for pension liabilities and available-for-sale-securities.   
  Similar to Basel II, the Basel III proposal also incorporates the risk-weighted asset impact of operational risk, which will be partially offset by a
decline in credit exposure.      Additionally, Basel III changes the treatment of securitizations that fall below investment grade. Under Basel II
guidelines, securitizations that fall

below investment grade are deducted equally from Tier 1 and total capital. However, under Basel III, banking institutions will be required to apply a 1,250% risk weight to these securitizations
and include them as a component of risk-weighted assets.      Our fee-based model enables us to maintain a relatively low risk asset mix,
primarily composed of high-quality securities, central bank deposits, liquid placements and predominantly investment grade loans. As a result of our asset mix, we have the flexibility to manage to a lower level of risk-weighted assets over time.
     Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change, we cannot be certain of the impact of new regulations on our capital ratios. At Dec.
31, 2011, our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio was 7.1%.       Capital disclosure requirements    
  In December 2011, the Basel Committee issued a consultative document on the  Definition of capital disclosure requirements , which proposes
disclosure requirements that aim to improve the transparency and comparability of a bank s capital base. The consultative document includes the following:       

A common template for banks to use in reporting the breakdown of their regulatory capital when the transition period for the phasing-in of deductions
ends on Jan. 1, 2018;      

A 3-step approach for banks to follow to ensure that there is full reconciliation of all regulatory capital elements back to the published financial
statements;      

A common template for banks to use to meet the Basel III requirement to provide a description of the main features of capital instruments;

Proposals on how banks should meet the Basel III requirement to provide the full terms and conditions of capital instruments on their websites and the
requirement to report the calculation of any ratios involving components of regulatory capital; and      

A template for banks to use during the transition period.         The Basel Committee proposes that banks comply with the disclosure requirements set out in the consultative document from the date of publication of their first set of financial statements relating to a
balance sheet date on or after Jan. 1, 2013 (with the exception of the post-Jan. 1, 2018 template). Furthermore, it is proposed that banks publish this

78     BNY Mellon   

Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments
   (continued)           

disclosure with the same frequency as the publication of their financial statements. The deadline for comments on the proposals was on Feb. 17, 2012.   
   IFRS       International Financial Reporting
Standards ( IFRS ) are a set of standards and interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board. The SEC is currently considering a potential IFRS adoption process in the U.S., which would, in the near term, provide
domestic issuers with an alternative accounting method and ultimately could replace U.S. GAAP reporting requirements with IFRS reporting requirements. The intention of this adoption would be to provide the capital markets community with a single set
of high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards. The adoption of IFRS for U.S. companies with global operations would allow for streamlined reporting, allow for easier access to foreign capital markets and investments, and facilitate
cross-border acquisitions, ventures or spin-offs.      In November 2008, the SEC proposed a  roadmap  for phasing in mandatory IFRS
filings by U.S. public companies. The roadmap is conditional on progress towards milestones that would demonstrate improvements in both the infrastructure of international standard setting and the preparation of the U.S. financial reporting
community.      In February 2010, the SEC issued a statement confirming their position that they continue to believe that a single set of
high-quality, globally accepted accounting standards would benefit U.S. investors. The SEC continues to support the dual goals of improving financial reporting in the U.S. and reducing country-by-country disparities in financial reporting. The SEC
is developing a work plan to aid in its evaluation of the impact of IFRS on the U.S. securities market.      In May 2011, the SEC published a
staff paper,  Exploring a Possible Method of Incorporation,  that presents a possible framework for incorporating IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system. In the staff paper, the SEC staff elaborates on an approach that combines
elements of convergence and endorsement. This approach would establish an endorsement protocol for the FASB to incorporate newly issued or amended IFRS into U.S. GAAP. During a transition period (e.g., five to seven years), differences between IFRS
and U.S. GAAP would be potentially eliminated through ongoing FASB standard setting.

This is one of several approaches to incorporate IFRS into the U.S. financial reporting system. The SEC has
not yet decided whether to move ahead with incorporation. Comments on the framework and on any other potential approaches to incorporating IFRS were due by July 31, 2011.      While the SEC decides whether IFRS will be required to be used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, a number of countries have mandated the use of IFRS by BNY Mellon s
subsidiaries in their statutory reports. Such countries include Belgium, Brazil, the Netherlands, Australia, Hong Kong, Canada and South Korea.   
   Proposed Update to Internal Control Integrated Framework       In December 2011, The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) issued for public comment a proposed update to Internal Control Integrated Framework. The
original Framework, issued in 1992, is used by most U.S. public companies and many others to evaluate and report on the effectiveness of their internal control over external financial reporting.   
  Since the original Framework was introduced, business has become increasingly global and complex. Regulatory regimes also have expanded, and additional
forms of external reporting are emerging. The COSO Board has updated the original Framework to make it more relevant to investors and other stakeholders.      The more significant proposed changes to the original framework include: applying a principles-based approach, clarifying the role of objective-setting in internal control, reflecting the increased
relevance of technology, enhancing governance concepts, expanding the objectives of financial reporting, enhancing consideration of anti-fraud expectations, and considering different business models and organizational structures.   
  Comments on the proposed Framework will be accepted through March 31, 2012. The final document is expected to be issued by the end of 2012.

BNY
Mellon     79   

Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)    

(a)   
   Amount does not foot due to rounding.      

(b)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis in 2010.      

(d)   
   At period end.      
      
  80     BNY Mellon   

Forward-looking Statements    

Some statements in this document are forward-looking. These include all statements about: the future
results of BNY Mellon; expectations for Basel III and our estimated Basel III Tier 1 common equity ratio; BNY Mellon s plans and strategies, areas of focus and long-term financial goals; expectations regarding updating our capital targets; the
impact of continued global uncertainty; expectations regarding our foreign exchange revenue; expectations regarding our effective tax rate; expectations with respect to legal and litigation costs; expectations regarding the seasonality of our
businesses; expectations with respect to fees and assets; factors affecting the performance of our businesses: the impact of foreign exchange rates on our financial results and levels of assets under custody and management; descriptions of our
critical accounting estimates, including management s estimates of probable losses, management s judgment in determining the effect of credit ratings on allowances, estimates of fair value; effects of delinquencies, default rates and loss
severity assumptions on impairment losses; expectations regarding the impact that a goodwill impairment charge would have on our financial condition, results of operations, regulatory capital ratios and debt issuance; statements regarding the impact
of money market fee waivers or changes in levels of assets under management on the fair value of Asset Management; estimates of net pension expense; our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets; the impact of significant changes in ratings
classifications for our investment portfolio on credit risk and the fair value of our investment securities portfolio; assumptions with respect to residential mortgage-backed securities; expectations with respect to our leasing portfolio; estimates
of provisions for credit losses; statements with respect to BNY Mellon s liquidity cushion, liquidity ratios, liquid asset buffer and potential uses of liquidity; statements with respect to an increase in our dividends and our liquidity
targets; the effect of a significant reduction in our Investment Services business on our access to deposits; the impact of a change in rating agencies  method of review on BNY Mellon s ratings; expectations with respect to capital,
including anticipated repayment and call of outstanding securities; our goal of maintaining a predominantly investment grade credit portfolio; the effect of a change in risk-weighted assets or common equity on our capital ratios, the effect of a
change in the value of the S P 500 Index; statements on our target capital ratios; expectations with respect to the well capitalized status of BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries; statements regarding our balance sheet size and client deposit
levels; statements regarding

Mellon Capital IV; compliance with the requirements of the Sound Practices Paper; statements regarding maintaining a strong balance sheet and a superior debt rating; descriptions of our risk
management framework; statements regarding risks that we may face and the impact of such risks; statements regarding our economic capital; statements with respect to our risk management; descriptions of our earnings simulation models and
assumptions; statements with respect to our business continuity plans; expectations regarding climate change; the effect of geopolitical factors and other external factors on risk; timing and impact of adoption of recent accounting pronouncements;
the timing and effects of pending and proposed legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act; the Federal Reserve s proposed rules with respect to systemically important financial institutions; the Federal Reserve s and
FDIC s proposed resolution planning rules; the OCC s proposed rules regarding credit ratings in connection with purchase of investment securities; federal regulators proposal regarding incentive compensation arrangements; our expectation
regarding Basel II and Basel III requirements and the impact on our capital ratios; the SEC s plans regarding IFRS; ability to realize benefit of deferred tax assets including carryovers; calculations of the fair value of our option grants;
statements with respect to unrecognized tax benefits and compensation costs; our assessment of the adequacy of our accruals for tax liabilities; amount of dividends bank subsidiaries can pay without regulatory waiver; and estimations of reasonable
possible loss with respect to legal proceedings and the expected outcome and impact of judgments and settlements, if any, arising from pending or potential legal or regulatory proceedings.      In this report, any other report, any press release or any written or oral statement that BNY Mellon or its executives may make, words, such as  estimate,   forecast, 
 project,   anticipate,   confident,   target,   expect,   intend,   continue,   seek,   believe,   plan,   goal,   could, 
 should,   may,   will,   strategy,   synergies,   opportunities,   trends  and words of similar meaning, signify forward-looking statements.   
  Forward-looking statements, including discussions and projections of future results of operations and discussions of future plans contained in the
MD A, are based on management s current expectations and assumptions that involve risk and uncertainties and that are subject to change based on various important factors (some of which are beyond BNY Mellon s control), including
adverse changes in market conditions, and the timing of such changes, and the

BNY
Mellon     81   

Forward-looking Statements    (continued)                 

actions that management could take in response to these changes. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed
in the  Risk Factors  section of BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011, such as: uncertainty in financial markets and weakness in the economy; disruptions in European economies, or the failure or
instability of any of our significant counterparties in Europe; continued market volatility; write-downs of financial instruments that we own or other losses related to volatile or illiquid market conditions; adverse publicity, regulatory actions or
litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally; government regulation and supervision, and associated limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions; recent
legislative and regulatory actions; low or volatile interest rates and its impact on money market fund sponsors; changes to deposit insurance premiums; the level of regulation applicable to, and the costs associated therewith of, our competitors,
the degree of consolidation and the breadth of products and services offerings of companies in the financial services industry and the ability of BNY Mellon to distinguish itself from its competitors; declines in capital markets on our fee-based
businesses; stable exchange-rate environment and declines in cross-border activity; dependence on consistent execution of fee-based services that we perform; the failure to successfully integrate strategic acquisitions; the failure or instability of
any of our significant counterparties, and      our assumption of credit and counterparty risk;

changes to credit ratings; supervisory standards; access to capital markets; monetary policy and other governmental regulations; failures relating to operational risk and circumvention of
controls and procedures; disruption or breaches in security of our information systems that results in a loss of confidential client information or impacts our ability to provide services to our clients; dependence on technology and intellectual
property; global operations and regulation; acts of terrorism and global conflicts; risks relating to new lines of business; attracting and retaining employees; tax and accounting laws and regulations; inadequate credit reserves; risks associated
with being a holding company including our dependence on dividends from our subsidiary banks; the impact of provisions of Delaware law and the Federal Reserve on our ability to pay dividends and anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of
incorporation and bylaws. Investors should consider all risks in BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 and any subsequent reports filed with the SEC by BNY Mellon pursuant to the Exchange Act.   
  All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and BNY Mellon undertakes no obligation to update any
statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such forward-looking statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The contents of BNY Mellon s website or any other websites referenced herein are
not part of this report.   

82     BNY Mellon   

Glossary    

Accumulated Benefit Obligation ( ABO )  The actuarial present value of benefits
(vested and non-vested) attributed to employee services rendered.       Alt-A securities  A mortgage risk categorization that falls
between prime and subprime. Borrowers behind these mortgages will typically have clean credit histories but the mortgage itself will generally have issues that increase its risk profile.       Alternative investments  Usually refers to investments in hedge funds, leveraged loans, subordinated and distressed debt, real estate and foreign currency overlay. Examples of alternative
investment strategies are: long-short equity, event-driven, statistical arbitrage, fixed income arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, short bias, global macro and equity market neutral.       APAC  Asia-Pacific region.       Asset-backed commercial paper
( ABCP )  A short-term instrument issued by a financial institution that is collateralized by other assets.       Assets Under
Custody And Administration ( AUC )  Assets beneficially owned by our clients or customers which we hold in various capacities for which various services are provided, such as custody, accounting, administration valuations and
performance measurement. These assets are not on our balance sheet.       ASC  Accounting Standards Codification.   
   Assets Under Management ( AUM )  Includes assets beneficially owned by our clients or customers which we hold in various capacities
that are either actively or passively managed, as well as the value of hedges supporting customer liabilities. These assets and liabilities are not on our balance sheet.       bps  basis points.       Collateral management  A comprehensive program designed
to simplify collateralization and expedite securities transfers for buyers and sellers.       Collateralized Debt Obligations
( CDOs )  A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product constructed from a portfolio of fixed-income assets.   
   Collateralized loan obligation ( CLO )  A debt security backed by a pool of commercial loans.   
   Collective trust fund  An investment fund formed from the pooling of investments by investors.   
   Credit derivatives  Contractual agreements that provide insurance against a credit event of one or more referenced credits. Such events
include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations when due.

Credit risk  The risk of loss due to borrower or counterparty default.   
   Credit valuation adjustment ( CVA )  The market value of counterparty credit risk on OTC derivative transactions.   
   Currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency.   
   Daily average revenue trades ( DARTS )  A metric used that represents the number of trades from which an entity can expect to
generate revenue through fees or commissions on a given day.       Debit valuation adjustment ( DVA )  The market value of our
credit risk on OTC derivative transactions.       Depositary Receipts ( DR )  A negotiable security that generally represents
a non-U.S. company s publicly traded equity.       Derivative  A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices.       Discontinued operations  The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by ASC 205, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is
management s intention to sell the component.       Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Dodd-Frank
Act )  Regulatory reform legislation signed into law on July 21, 2010. This law broadly affects the financial services industry and contains numerous provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services
sector.       Double leverage  The situation that exists when a holding company s equity investments in wholly owned subsidiaries
(including goodwill and intangibles) exceed its equity capital. Double leverage is created when a bank holding company issues debt and downstreams the proceeds to a subsidiary as an equity investment.   
   Economic Value of Equity ( EVE )  An aggregation of discounted future cash flows of assets and liabilities over a long-term horizon.
      EMEA  Europe, the Middle East and Africa.       Eurozone  an economic and monetary union of 17 European Union member states that have adopted the euro ( ) as their common currency. The Eurozone currently includes Germany, France,
Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria, Finland, Italy,   

BNY
Mellon     83   

Glossary    (continued)                 

Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Estonia, Cyprus, Malta, Slovenia and Slovakia.   
   eXtensible Business Reporting Language ( XBRL )  a language for the electronic communication of business and financial data.
      FASB  Financial Accounting Standards Board.       FDIC  Federal Deposit Issuance Corporation.       Foreign currency
options  Similar to interest rate options except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also, see interest rate options in this glossary.       Foreign currency swaps  An agreement to exchange stipulated amounts of one currency for another currency at one or more future dates.       Foreign exchange contracts  Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms.   
   Forward rate agreements  Contracts to exchange payments on a specified future date, based on a market change in interest rates from trade date
to contract settlement date.       Fully Taxable Equivalent ( FTE )  Basis for comparison of yields on assets having ordinary
taxability with assets for which special tax exemptions apply. The FTE adjustment reflects an increase in the interest yield or return on a tax-exempt asset to a level that would be comparable had the asset been fully taxable.   
   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP )  Accounting rules and conventions defining acceptable practices in preparing
financial statements in the U.S. The FASB is the primary source of accounting rules.       Grantor Trust  A legal, passive entity
through which pass-through securities are sold to investors.       Hedge fund  A fund which is allowed to use diverse strategies that
are unavailable to mutual funds, including selling short, leverage, program trading, swaps, arbitrage and derivatives.   
   Impairment  When an asset s market value is less than its carrying value.       Interest rate options, including caps and floors  Contracts to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a premium when the contract is initiated. As a writer of interest rate
options, we receive a premium in exchange for bearing the risk of unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely, as a purchaser of an option, we pay a premium for the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell a financial instrument or
currency at predetermined terms in the future.   
 
    Interest rate sensitivity  The exposure of net interest income to interest rate movements.
      Interest rate swaps  Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency is exchanged over a prescribed
period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities.   
   Investment grade  Those where the customer has a Moody s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a Standard   Poor s,
Fitch or DBRS long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings. Instruments that fall below these levels are considered non-investment grade.   
   Joint venture  A company or entity owned and operated by a group of companies for a specific business purpose, no one of which has a majority
interest.       Leverage ratio  Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, as defined by the regulators.   
   Liquidity risk  The risk of being unable to fund our portfolio of assets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being unable to
liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable price.       Loans for purchasing or carrying securities  Loans primarily to
brokers and dealers in securities.       Market risk  The potential loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by
movements in market variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices.       Master
netting agreement  An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one
contract.       Mortgage-Backed Security ( MBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by the principal and
interest payments of a set of mortgage loans.       N/A  Not applicable.       N/M  Not meaningful.       Net interest margin  The result of dividing net
interest revenue by average interest-earning assets.       Nostro account  An account held in a foreign country by a domestic bank,
denominated in the currency of that country. Nostro accounts are used to facilitate settlement of foreign exchange and currency trading transactions.

84     BNY Mellon   

Glossary    (continued)                 
 
    Operating leverage  The rate of increase in revenue to the rate of increase in expenses.
      Operational risk  The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or external events.
      Performance fees  Fees received by an investment advisor based upon the fund s performance for the period relative to various
predetermined benchmarks.       Prime securities  A classification of securities collateralized by loans to borrowers who have a
high-value and/or a good credit history.       Private equity/venture capital  Investment in start-up companies or those in the early
processes of developing products and services with perceived, long-term growth potential.       Pre-tax operating margin  Income before
taxes for a period divided by total revenue for that period.       Projected Benefit Obligation ( PBO )  The actuarial present
value of all benefits accrued on employee service rendered prior to the calculation date, including allowance for future salary increases if the pension benefit is based on future compensation levels.   
   Qui tam action  An action brought under a statute that allows a private person to sue for a recovery, part of which the government or some
specified public institution will receive.       Rating Agency  An independent agency that assesses the credit quality and likelihood of
default of an issue or issuer and assigns a rating to that issue or issuer.       Real Estate Investment Trust ( REIT )  An
investor-owned corporation, trust or association that sells shares to investors and invests in income-producing property.       Repurchase
Agreement ( Repo )  An instrument used to raise short term funds whereby securities are sold with an agreement for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date.       Residential Mortgage-Backed Security ( RMBS )  An asset-backed security whose cash flows are backed by principal and interest payments of a set of residential mortgage loans.
      Restructuring charges  Typically result from the consolidation and/or relocation of operations.   
   Return on assets  Income divided by average assets.

Return on common equity  Income divided by average common shareholders  equity.   
   Return on tangible common equity  Income, excluding amortization of intangible assets, divided by average tangible common shareholders 
equity.       Securities lending transaction  A fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the
security through an agent (The Bank of New York Mellon) to a borrower, usually a broker/dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which generally matures in less than 90 days.   
   Subcustodian  A local provider (e.g., a bank) contracted to provide specific custodial related services in a selected country or geographic
area.       Subprime securities  A classification of securities collateralized by loans to borrowers who have a tarnished or limited
credit history.       Tangible common shareholders  equity  Common equity less goodwill and intangible assets adjusted for deferred
tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill.       Tier 1 and total capital (Basel I
guidelines)  Includes common shareholders  equity (excluding certain components of comprehensive income), qualifying trust preferred securities, less goodwill and certain intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities
associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill and a deduction for certain non-financial equity investments and disallowed deferred tax assets. Total capital includes Tier 1 capital, qualifying unrealized equity
securities gains, qualifying subordinated debt and the allowance for credit losses.       Unfunded commitments  Legally binding
agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date.       Value-at-Risk ( VaR )  A measure of
the dollar amount of potential loss at a specified confidence level from adverse market movements in an ordinary market environment.   
   Variable Interest Entity ( VIE )  An entity that: (1) lacks enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance
its activities without additional financial support from other parties; (2) has equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the entity s operations; and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an
obligation to absorb or the right to receive the entity s losses or return.   

BNY
Mellon     85   

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    

Management of BNY Mellon is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for BNY Mellon, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.      BNY Mellon s management,
including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has assessed the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the
criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based upon such assessment, management believes that, as of

December 31, 2011, BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting is effective based upon those criteria.      KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited BNY Mellon s 2011 financial statements included in this Annual Report under  Financial Statements and Notes,  has
issued a report with respect to the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 87.

86     BNY Mellon   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
         
   The Board of Directors and Shareholders      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation s ( BNY Mellon ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission (COSO). BNY Mellon s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, BNY Mellon
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), the consolidated balance sheets of BNY Mellon as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2011, and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.       
      /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 28, 2012   
         BNY
Mellon     87   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Income Statement    

88     BNY Mellon   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Income Statement    (continued)   

(a)   
   In 2011, BNY Mellon realigned its internal reporting structure. See Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(b)   
   Diluted earnings per share for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009, was calculated using average basic shares. Adding back the dilutive shares would be anti-dilutive.

(c)   
   Represents stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, participating securities and warrants outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted
average common shares because their effect would be anti-dilutive.      

(d)   
   Basic and diluted earnings per share under the two-class method are determined on the net income reported on the income statement less earnings allocated to
participating securities, and the excess of redeemable value over the fair value of noncontrolling interests.      

(e)   
   Does not foot due to rounding.      
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         BNY
Mellon     89   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Balance Sheet    

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      
  90     BNY Mellon   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         BNY
Mellon     91   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
      Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    

(b)   
   Includes $(26) million (after tax) related to net securities gains (losses).      

(c)   
   Comprehensive income attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders totaled $2,244 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011.
     
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
      
  92     BNY Mellon   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    (continued)       

(b)   
   Includes $(15) million (after tax) related to OTTI, and a $14 million reclassification to retained earnings from other comprehensive income.

(c)   
   Comprehensive income attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders totaled $2,960 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.

BNY
Mellon     93   

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (and its subsidiaries)    
         
    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity    (continued)       

(b)   
   Includes $3,348 million (after tax) related to OTTI that was reclassified to net securities gains (losses) on the income statement.      

(c)   
   Comprehensive income attributable to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholders totaled $3,158 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2009.

94     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

Note 1 Summary of significant accounting and reporting policies    
    Basis of Presentation    
  The accounting and financial reporting policies of BNY Mellon, a global financial services company, conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ) and prevailing industry practices.      In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary for a fair
presentation of financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the annual periods have been made. Certain other immaterial reclassifications have been made to prior years to place them on a basis comparable with current period
presentation.       Use of estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates based upon assumptions about future economic and market conditions which affect reported amounts
and related disclosures in our financial statements. Although our current estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in
those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Amounts subject to estimates are items such as the allowance for loan losses and lending-related commitments, goodwill and intangible assets, pension
accounting, the fair value of financial instruments and other-than-temporary impairments. Among other effects, such changes in estimates could result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill and intangible assets and establishment of
allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments as well as increased pension and post-retirement expense.       Organization of our
businesses       In 2011, BNY Mellon realigned its internal reporting structure and business presentation to focus on its two principal
businesses, Investment Management and Investment Services. The realignment reflects management s current approach to assessing performance and decisions regarding resource allocations. Investment Management includes the former Asset Management
and Wealth Management businesses. Investment Services includes the former Asset Servicing, Issuer Services and Clearing Services

businesses, and the Cash Management business previously included in the Treasury Services business. The credit-related activities previously included in the Treasury Services business, are now
included in the Other segment. Fee revenue classifications in the income statement were changed in 2011 to reflect this realignment as follows:       

Investment management and performance fees consist of the former asset and wealth management fee revenue; and      

Investment services fees consist of the former securities servicing fees, including asset servicing, issuer services, clearing services, as well as
treasury services fee revenue.         All prior periods were reclassified. The reclassifications did not affect the results of
operations.       Equity method investments       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. Equity investments of less than a majority but at least 20% ownership are accounted for by the equity method
and classified as other assets. Earnings on these investments are reflected in fee and other revenue as investment services fees or investment income, as appropriate, in the period earned. Our most significant equity method investments are:
      
     Acquired businesses       The income statement and balance sheet include results of acquired businesses accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting pursuant to ASC 805  Business Combinations  and equity
investments from the dates of acquisition. For acquisitions prior to Jan. 1, 2009, we recorded any contingent purchase payments when the amounts were resolved and became payable. For acquisitions occurring after Dec. 31, 2008, contingent purchase
consideration was measured at its fair value and recorded on the purchase date.   

BNY
Mellon     95   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Parent financial statements       The Parent financial statements in Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Parent; those of a wholly owned financing subsidiary that functions as a financing
entity for BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries by issuing commercial paper and other debt guaranteed by BNY Mellon; and MIPA, LLC, a single-member limited liability company, created to hold and administer corporate owned life insurance. Financial data
for the Parent, the financing subsidiary and the single-member limited liability company are combined for financial reporting purposes because of the limited function of these entities and the unconditional guarantee by BNY Mellon of their
obligations.       Variable interest entities       We consider the underlying facts and circumstances of individual transactions when assessing whether or not an entity is a potential variable interest entity ( VIE ). VIEs are entities that do
not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support, or in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. BNY Mellon applies ASC 810 to its
mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, collective investment funds and real estate investment trusts, which were determined to be VIEs. Generally, the company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and thus required to consolidate a VIE,
if BNY Mellon has a variable interest (or combination of variable interests) that, based on a quantitative analysis, will absorb a majority of the VIE s expected losses, that will receive a majority of the VIE s expected residual returns,
or both. A  variable interest  is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets.  Expected losses  and  expected residual returns  are measures of
variability in the expected cash flows of a VIE.      BNY Mellon s other VIEs are evaluated under the guidance included in ASU 2009-17. These
other VIEs include securitization trusts, which are no longer considered qualifying special purpose entities ( QSPEs ), and CLOs, in which BNY Mellon serves as the investment manager. In addition, we provide trust and custody services for
a fee to entities sponsored by other corporations in which we have no other interest. The company must determine whether or not its variable interests in these VIEs, based on qualitative analysis, provide BNY Mellon with a controlling financial
interest in the VIE. The analysis

includes an assessment of the characteristics of the VIE. The Company is considered to have a controlling financial interest in the VIE, which would require consolidation of the VIE, if it has
the following characteristics: (1) the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance; and (2) the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could
potentially be significant to the VIE.       Nature of operations       BNY Mellon is a global leader in providing a broad range of financial products and services in domestic and international markets. Through our two principal businesses, Investment Management and
Investment Services, we serve the following major classes of customers institutions, corporations, and high net worth individuals. For institutions and corporations, we provide the following services:   

investment management;      

trust and custody;      

foreign exchange;      

fund administration;      

securities lending;      

depositary receipts;      

corporate trust;      

global payment/cash management; and      

banking services.         For
individuals, we provide mutual funds, separate accounts, wealth management and private banking services. BNY Mellon s investment management businesses provide investment products in many asset classes and investment styles on a global basis.
      Trading account securities, available-for-sale securities, and held-to-maturity securities    
  Securities are accounted for under ASC 320  Investments Debt and Equity Securities.  Securities are generally classified in the trading,
available-for-sale investment or the held-to-maturity investment securities portfolios when they are purchased. Securities are classified as trading securities when our intention is to resell. Securities are classified as available-for-sale
securities when we intend to hold the securities for an indefinite period of time or when the securities may be used for tactical asset/liability purposes and may be sold from time to time to effectively manage interest rate exposure, prepayment
risk and liquidity needs. Securities are classified as held-to-maturity securities when we intend to hold them until maturity. Seed capital investments are classified as other assets or

96     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

available-for-sale securities, depending on the nature of the investment and management s intent.      Trading securities are stated at fair value. Trading revenue includes both realized and unrealized gains and losses. The liability incurred on short-sale transactions, representing the obligation to
deliver securities, is included in trading liabilities at fair value.      Available-for-sale securities are stated at fair value. The difference
between fair value and amortized cost representing unrealized gains or losses on assets classified as available-for-sale, are recorded net of tax as an addition to or deduction from other comprehensive income ( OCI ), unless a security is
deemed to have an other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ). Gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are reported in the income statement. The cost of debt and equity securities sold is determined on a specific
identification and average cost method, respectively. Unrealized gains and losses on seed capital investments classified as other assets are recorded in investment income. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at cost.   
  Income on securities purchased is adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount on a level yield basis.   
  We routinely conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each investment security to determine whether OTTI has occurred. We examine various
factors when determining whether an impairment, representing the fair value of a security being below its amortized cost, is other than temporary. The following are examples of factors that BNY Mellon considers:   

The length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis;      

Whether management has an intent to sell the security;      

Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to specific adverse conditions affecting a particular investment;      

Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to specific conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a geographic area;

Whether a debt security has been downgraded by a rating agency;      

Whether a debt security exhibits cash flow deterioration; and

For each non-agency RMBS, we compare the remaining credit enhancement that protects the individual security from losses against the projected losses of
principal and/or interest expected to come from the underlying mortgage collateral, to determine whether such credit losses might directly impact the relevant security.         The determination of whether a credit loss exists is based on best estimates of the present value of cash flows to be collected from the debt security. Generally, cash flows are discounted at the
effective interest rate implicit in the debt security at the time of acquisition. For debt securities that are beneficial interests in securitized financial assets and are not high credit quality, ASC 325 provides that cash flows be discounted at
the current yield used to accrete the beneficial interest.      The credit component of an OTTI of a debt security is recognized in earnings and
the non-credit component is recognized in OCI when we do not intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that BNY Mellon will not be required to sell the security prior to recovery.   
  For held-to-maturity debt securities, the amount of OTTI recorded in OCI for the non-credit portion of a previous OTTI is amortized prospectively, as an
increase to the carrying amount of the security, over the remaining life of the security on the basis of the timing of future estimated cash flows of the securities. In order not to be required to recognize the non-credit component of an OTTI in
earnings, management is required to assert that it does not have the intent to sell the security and that it is more likely than not it will not have to sell the security before recovery of its cost basis.   
  If we intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not that BNY Mellon will be required to sell the security prior to recovery, the non-credit
component of OTTI is recognized in earnings and subsequently accreted to interest income on an effective yield basis over the life of the security.      The accounting policies for the determination of the fair value of financial instruments and OTTI have been identified as  critical accounting estimates  as they require us to make numerous
assumptions based on available market data. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for these disclosures.

BNY
Mellon     97   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Loans and leases       Loans are reported net of any unearned discount. Loan origination and upfront commitment fees, as well as certain direct loan origination and commitment costs, are deferred and amortized as a yield
adjustment over the lives of the related loans. Deferred fees and costs are netted against outstanding loan balances. Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or market value.      Unearned revenue on direct financing leases is accreted over the lives of the leases in decreasing amounts to provide a constant rate of return on the net investment in the leases. Revenue on leveraged
leases is recognized on a basis to achieve a constant yield on the outstanding investment in the lease, net of the related deferred tax liability, in the years in which the net investment is positive. Gains and losses on residual values of leased
equipment sold are included in investment income. Considering the nature of these leases and the number of significant assumptions, there is risk associated with the income recognition on these leases should any of the assumptions change materially
in future periods.       Nonperforming assets       Commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest is past due 90 days or more, or when there is reasonable doubt that interest or principal will be collected.   
  When a first lien residential mortgage loan reaches 90 days delinquent, it is subject to an impairment test and may be placed on nonaccrual status. At
180 days delinquent, the loan is subject to further impairment testing. The loan will remain on accrual status if the realizable value of the collateral exceeds the unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest. If the loan is impaired, a
charge-off is taken and the loan is placed on nonaccrual status. At 270 days delinquent, all first lien mortgages are placed on nonaccrual status. Second lien mortgages are automatically placed on nonaccrual status when they reach 90 days
delinquent. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against current period interest revenue. Interest receipts on nonaccrual and impaired loans are recognized as interest revenue or are
applied to principal when we believe the ultimate collectability of principal is in doubt. Nonaccrual loans generally are restored to an accrual basis when principal and interest become current.

A loan is considered to be impaired, as defined by ASC 310  Accounting by Creditors for Impairment
of a Loan , when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all principal and interest amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. An impairment allowance is measured on loans $1 million or greater and which meet
the definition of an impaired loan per ASC 310.      Impaired loans $1 million or greater are required to be measured based upon the loan s
market price, the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s initial effective interest rate, or at fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If the loan valuation is less than the recorded
value of the loan, an impairment allowance is established by either an allocation of the allowance for credit losses or by a provision for credit losses. Impairment allowances are not needed when the recorded investment in an impaired loan is less
than the loan valuation.       Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments    
  The allowance for loans losses, shown as a valuation allowance to loans, and the allowance for lending-related commitments are referred to as BNY
Mellon s allowance for credit exposure. The accounting policy for the determination of the adequacy of the allowances has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective
estimates and assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently uncertain.      The allowance for loans losses is maintained to absorb losses
inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date based on our judgment. The allowance determination methodology is designed to provide procedural discipline in assessing the appropriateness of the allowance. Credit losses are charged
against the allowance. Recoveries are added to the allowance.      The methodology for determining the allowance for lending-related commitments
considers the same factors as the allowance for loan losses, as well as an estimate of the probability of drawdown. In 2011, we implemented an enhanced methodology for determining the allowance for credit losses by adding a qualitative allowance
framework. Within this framework, management applies judgment when assessing internal risk factors and environmental factors to compute an additional allowance for each component of the loan portfolio. This change did not impact the allowance or
provision for credit losses.   

98     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The three elements of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments
include the qualitative allowance framework. The three elements are:       

an allowance for impaired credits of $1 million or greater;      

an allowance for higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated credits; and      

an allowance for residential mortgage loans.         Our lending is primarily to institutional customers. As a result, our loans are generally larger than $1 million. Therefore, the first element, impaired credits, is based on individual analysis of all
impaired loans of $1 million or greater. The allowance is measured by the difference between the recorded value of impaired loans and their impaired value. Impaired value is either the present value of the expected future cash flows from the
borrower, the market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral.      The second element, higher risk-rated credits and pass-rated
credits, is based on our probable loss model. All borrowers are assigned to pools based on their credit ratings. The probable loss inherent in each loan in a pool incorporates the borrower s credit rating, loss given default rating and
maturity. The loss given default incorporates a recovery expectation. The borrower s probability of default is derived from the associated credit rating. Borrower ratings are reviewed at least annually and are periodically mapped to third-party
databases, including rating agency and default and recovery databases, to ensure ongoing consistency and validity. Higher risk-rated credits are reviewed quarterly. Commercial loans over $1 million are individually analyzed before being
assigned a credit rating. We also apply this technique to our lease financing and wealth management portfolios.      The third element, the
allowance for residential mortgage loans, is determined by segregating six mortgage pools into delinquency periods ranging from current through foreclosure. Each of these delinquency periods is assigned a probability of default. A specific loss
given default based on a combination of external loss data from third-party databases and internal loss history is assigned for each mortgage pool. For each pool, the inherent loss is calculated using the above factors. The resulting probable loss
factor is applied against the loan balance to determine the allowance held for each pool.

The qualitative framework is used to determine an additional allowance for each portfolio based on the
factors below:      Internal risk factors:       

Non-performing loans to total non-margin loans;      

Criticized assets to total loans and lending-related commitments;      

Ratings volatility;      

Borrower concentration; and      

Significant concentration in high-risk industry.         Environmental risk factors:       

U.S. non-investment grade default rate;      

Unemployment rate; and      

Change in real GDP (quarter-over-quarter).         The allocation of the prior period allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments has been restated to reflect the implementation of the qualitative allowance framework. The
allocation of allowance for credit losses is inherently judgmental, and the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses regardless of the nature of the loss.       Premises and equipment       Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the owned asset and, for leasehold improvements, over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility
or the estimated economic life of the improvement. For owned and capitalized assets, estimated useful lives range from two to 40 years. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major improvements are capitalized and
amortized to operating expense over their identified useful lives.       Software       BNY Mellon capitalizes costs relating to acquired software and internal-use software development projects that provide new or significantly improved functionality. We capitalize projects that are expected
to result in longer-term operational benefits, such as replacement systems or new applications that result in significantly increased operational efficiencies or functionality. All other costs incurred in connection with an internal-use software
project are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software is recorded in other assets.   

BNY
Mellon     99   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Identified intangible assets and goodwill       Identified intangible assets with estimable lives are amortized in a pattern consistent with the assets  identifiable cash flows or using a straight-line method over their remaining estimated benefit
periods if the pattern of cash flows is not estimable. Intangible assets with estimable lives are reviewed for possible impairment when events or changed circumstances may affect the underlying basis of the asset. Goodwill and intangibles with
indefinite lives are not amortized, but are assessed annually for impairment, or more often if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not they may be impaired. The accounting policy for valuing and impairment testing of identified
intangible assets and goodwill has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous complex and subjective estimates. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
disclosures related to goodwill and intangible assets.       Noncontrolling Interests    
  Noncontrolling interests included in permanent equity are adjusted for the income or (loss) attributable to the noncontrolling interest holders and any
distributions to those shareholders. Redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported as temporary equity. In accordance with ASC 480,  Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity , BNY Mellon recognizes changes in the redemption value of the
redeemable noncontrolling interests as they occur and adjusts the carrying value to be equal to the redemption value.       Fee revenue
      We record investment services fees, investment management fees, foreign exchange and other trading revenue, financing-related fees,
distribution and servicing, and other revenue when the services are provided and earned based on contractual terms, when amounts are determined and collectibility is reasonably assured.      Additionally, we recognize revenue from non-refundable, up-front implementation fees under outsourcing contracts using a straight-line method, commencing in the period the ongoing services are performed
through the expected term of the contractual relationship. Incremental direct set-up costs of implementation, up to the related implementation fee or minimum fee revenue amount, are deferred and amortized over the same period that the related
implementation fees are recognized. If a client terminates an outsourcing contract prematurely,

the unamortized deferred incremental direct set-up costs and the unamortized deferred up-front implementation fees related to that contract are recognized in the period the contract is
terminated.      Performance fees are recognized in the period in which the performance fees are earned and become determinable. Performance fees
are generally calculated as a percentage of the applicable portfolio s performance in excess of a benchmark index or a peer group s performance. When a portfolio underperforms its benchmark or fails to generate positive performance,
subsequent years  performance must generally exceed this shortfall prior to fees being earned. Amounts billable in subsequent years and which are subject to a clawback if performance thresholds in those years are not met are not recognized
since the fees are potentially uncollectible. These fees are recognized when it is determined that they will be collected. When a multi-year performance contract provides that fees earned are billed ratably over the performance period, only the
portion of the fees earned that are non-refundable are recognized.       Net interest revenue    
  Revenue on interest-earning assets and expense on interest-bearing liabilities is recognized based on the effective yield of the related financial
instrument.       Foreign currency translation       Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange on the balance sheet date. Transaction gains and losses are included in the income
statement. Translation gains and losses on investments in foreign entities with functional currencies that are not the U.S. dollar are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in other comprehensive results. Revenue and expense
transactions are translated at the applicable daily rate or the weighted average monthly exchange rate when applying the daily rate is not practical.       Pension       The measurement date for BNY Mellon s pension plans is Dec. 31. Plan assets
are determined based on fair value generally representing observable market prices. The projected benefit obligation is determined based on the present value of projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized
is based on the yield of high-quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace.

100     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The net periodic pension expense or credit includes service costs, interest costs based on an assumed discount rate, an expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived
market-related value and amortization of prior years  actuarial gains and losses.      Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan
amendments, gains or losses related to changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation or plan assets resulting from experience different from the assumed rate of return, changes in the discount rate or other assumptions. To the extent an
actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, the excess is recognized over the future service periods of active employees.   
  Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on anticipated returns for each asset class. Anticipated returns are weighted for the
expected allocation for each asset class and are based on forecasts for prospective returns in the equity and fixed income markets, which should track the long-term historical returns for these markets. We also consider the growth outlook for U.S.
and global economies, as well as current and prospective interest rates.      The market-related value utilized to determine the expected return
on plan assets is based on the fair value of plan assets adjusted for the difference between expected returns and actual performance of plan assets. The difference between actual experience and expected returns on plan assets is included as an
adjustment in the market-related value over a five-year period.      BNY Mellon s accounting policy regarding pensions has been identified as
a  critical accounting estimate  as it is regarded to be critical to the presentation of our financial statements since it requires management to make numerous complex and subjective assumptions relating to amounts which are inherently
uncertain. See Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to pensions.       Severance
      BNY Mellon provides separation benefits for U.S.-based employees through The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation Supplemental
Unemployment Benefit Plan. These benefits are provided to eligible employees separated from their jobs for business reasons not related to individual performance. Basic

separation benefits are generally based on the employee s years of continuous benefited service. Severance for employees based outside of the U.S. is determined in accordance with local
agreements and legal requirements. Separation expense is recorded when management commits to an action that will result in separation and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.   
   Income taxes       We record current tax
liabilities or assets through charges or credits to the current tax provision for the estimated taxes payable or refundable for the current year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which
those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. A tax position that fails to
meet a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold will result in either reduction of current or deferred tax assets, and/or recording of current or deferred tax liabilities. Interest and penalties related to income taxes are recorded as income tax
expense.       Derivative financial instruments       Derivative contracts, such as futures contracts, forwards, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and options and similar products used in trading activities are recorded at fair value. Gains and
losses are included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in fee and other revenue. Unrealized gains are recognized as trading assets and unrealized losses are recognized as trading liabilities, after taking into consideration master netting
agreements.      We enter into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes primarily as part of our asset/liability
management ( ALM ) process. These derivatives are designated as fair value and cash flow hedges of certain assets and liabilities when we enter into the derivative contracts. Gains and losses associated with fair value hedges are recorded
in income as well as any change in the value of the related hedged item associated with the designated risks being hedged. Gains and losses on cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income, until reclassified into earnings to meet the
risks being   

BNY
Mellon     101   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

hedged. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses related to a hedged net investment in a foreign operation, net of their tax effect, are recorded with cumulative foreign currency translation
adjustments within other comprehensive income.      We formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well
as our risk-management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.      We formally assess, both at the hedge s
inception and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective and whether those derivatives are expected to remain highly effective in future periods. We evaluate ineffectiveness in terms of
amounts that could impact a hedge s ability to qualify for hedge accounting and the risk that the hedge could result in more than a de minimis amount of ineffectiveness. At inception, the potential causes of ineffectiveness related to each of
our hedges is assessed to determine if we can expect the hedge to be highly effective over the life of the transaction and to determine the method for evaluating effectiveness on an ongoing basis.   
  Recognizing that changes in the value of derivatives used for hedging or the value of hedged items could result in significant ineffectiveness, we have
processes in place that are designed to identify and evaluate such changes when they occur. Quarterly, we perform a quantitative effectiveness assessment and record any ineffectiveness in current earnings.   
  We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when we determine that a derivative is no longer an effective hedge, the derivative expires, is sold, or
management discontinues the derivative s hedge designation. Subsequent gains and losses on these derivatives are included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue. For discontinued fair value hedges, the accumulated gain or loss on the
hedged item is amortized on a yield basis over the remaining life of the hedged item. Accumulated gains and losses, net of tax effect, from discontinued cash flow hedges are reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized in current
earnings in other revenue upon receipt of the hedged cash flow.      The accounting policy for the determination of the fair value of derivative
financial instruments has been identified as a  critical accounting estimate  as it requires us to make numerous assumptions based on the available market data. See Note 25 of the Notes to

Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosures related to derivative financial instruments disclosures.       Statement of cash flows       We have defined cash as cash and due from banks. Cash flows from
hedging activities are classified in the same category as the items hedged.       Stock options    
  Compensation expense is recognized in the income statement, on a straight-line basis, over the applicable vesting period, for all share-based payments.
     Certain of our stock compensation grants vest when the employee retires. ASC 718 requires the completion of expensing of new grants with this
feature by the first date the employee is eligible to retire. For grants prior to Jan. 1, 2006, we will continue to expense them over their stated vesting period.   
      Note 2 Accounting changes and new accounting guidance    
    ASU 2011-02 A Creditor s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring    
  In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-02,  A Creditor s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring.  This
ASU provided clarifying guidance for creditors when determining whether they granted concessions and whether the debtor is experiencing financial difficulty. For purposes of identifying and disclosing troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs ),
this ASU was effective for interim and annual periods beginning after June 15, 2011 and was applied retrospectively to TDRs occurring on or after Jan. 1, 2011. Furthermore, this ASU specified that the absence of a market rate for a loan with
risks similar to the restructured loan is an indicator of a TDR, but not a determinative factor, and that the assessment should consider all aspects of the restructuring. For purposes of measuring impairment of a receivable restructured in a TDR,
the guidance in this ASU was applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after June 15, 2011. This ASU also required an entity to disclose the information required by ASU 2010-20. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for these disclosures.   

102     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

ASU 2010-6 Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements    
  In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-6,  Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements.  This amended ASC 820 to clarify existing
requirements regarding disclosures of inputs and valuation techniques and levels of disaggregation. Effective March 31, 2011, this ASU required new disclosures about Level 3 purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the roll-forward
activity for fair value measurements. This ASU is required in interim and annual financial statements. See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for these disclosures.       ASU 2010-29 Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations       In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29,  Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations.  This ASU specified that if a public entity presents comparative
financial statements, the entity would disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period
only. This ASU also expanded the supplemental pro forma disclosures under Topic 805 to include a description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination. The ASU was
effective prospectively for business combinations consummated on or after Jan. 1, 2011.       Adopted in 2010    
   ASU 2009-17 Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities    
  In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-17  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Entities Involved with Variable Interest Entities.  This
ASU amended ASC 810 to require ongoing assessments to determine whether an entity is a VIE and whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. This ASU also amended the guidance for determining which enterprise, if any, is the primary
beneficiary of a VIE by requiring the enterprise to initially perform a qualitative analysis to determine if the enterprise s variable interest or interests give it a controlling financial interest. Consolidation is based on a company s
ability to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic

performance. If a company has control and the right to receive benefits or the obligation to absorb losses which could potentially be significant to the VIE, then consolidation is required. This
ASU was effective Jan. 1, 2010, and primarily impacted our Investment Management businesses.      This ASU does not change the economic risk
related to these businesses and therefore, BNY Mellon s computation of economic capital required by our businesses did not change.      This
statement also required additional disclosures about an enterprise s involvement in a VIE, including the requirement for sponsors of a VIE to disclose information even if they do not hold a significant variable interest in the VIE.   
  In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-10,  Amendments for Certain Investment Funds  which deferred the requirements of ASU 2009-17 for
asset managers  interests in entities that apply the specialized accounting guidance for investment companies or that have the attributes of investment companies and asset managers  interests in money market funds. This amendment was
effective Jan. 1, 2010.   
      Note 3 Acquisitions and dispositions    
   We sometimes structure our acquisitions with both an initial payment and later contingent payments tied to post-closing revenue or
income growth. For acquisitions completed prior to Jan. 1, 2009, we record the fair value of contingent payments as an additional cost of the entity acquired in the period that the payment becomes probable. For acquisitions completed after Jan. 1,
2009, subsequent changes in the fair value of a contingent consideration liability will be recorded through the income statement. Contingent payments totaled $17 million in 2011.      At Dec. 31, 2011, we were potentially obligated to pay additional consideration which, using reasonable assumptions for the performance of the acquired companies and joint ventures based on contractual
agreements, could range from $3 million to $35 million over the next 3 years.       Acquisitions in 2011    
  On July 1, 2011, BNY Mellon acquired the wealth management operations of Chicago-based Talon Asset Management ( Talon ) for cash of $11
million. We are obligated to pay, upon occurrence of certain   

BNY
Mellon     103   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

events, contingent additional consideration of $5 million, which was recorded as goodwill at the acquisition date. Talon manages assets of wealthy families and institutions. Goodwill related to
this acquisition, including the contingent additional consideration, is included in our Investment Management business and totaled $10 million and is deductible for tax purposes. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this acquisition
are included in our Investment Management business, with a life of 20 years, and totaled $6 million. The impact of this acquisition was not material to earnings per share in 2011.      On Nov. 30, 2011, BNY Mellon acquired Penson Financial Services Australia Pty Ltd ( Penson ), a clearing firm located in Australia, in a $33 million share purchase transaction. Goodwill related
to this acquisition is included in our Investment Services business and totaled $10 million and is non-tax deductible. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this acquisition are included in our Investment Services business, with a life
of nine years, and totaled $6 million. The impact of this acquisition was not material to earnings per share in 2011.       Dispositions in 2011
      On Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon sold the Shareowner Services business. The sales price of $550 million resulted in a pre-tax gain of $98
million. We recorded an immaterial after-tax gain primarily due to the write-off of non-tax deductible goodwill associated with the business. Excluding the gain on the sale, the Shareowner Services business contributed $273 million of revenue and
$21 million of pre-tax income in 2011.       Acquisitions in 2010       On July 1, 2010, we acquired GIS for cash of $2.3 billion. GIS provides a comprehensive suite of products which includes subaccounting, fund accounting/administration, custody, managed account
services and alternative investment services. Assets acquired totaled approximately $590 million. Liabilities assumed totaled approximately $250 million. Goodwill related to this acquisition totaled $1,505 million, of which $1,256 million is tax
deductible and $249 million is non-tax deductible. Customer contract intangible assets related to this acquisition totaled $477 million with lives ranging from ten years to 20 years.

On Aug. 2, 2010, we acquired BAS for cash of $370 million. This transaction included the purchase of
Frankfurter Service Kapitalanlage Gesellschaft mbH ( FSKAG ), a wholly-owned fund administration affiliate. The combined business offers a full range of tailored solutions for investment companies, financial institutions and
institutional investors in Germany. Assets acquired totaled approximately $3.6 billion and primarily consisted of securities of approximately $2.6 billion. Liabilities assumed totaled approximately $3.4 billion and included deposits of $2.3 billion.
Goodwill related to this acquisition of $272 million is tax deductible. Customer contract intangible assets related to this acquisition totaled $40 million with a life of ten years.      On Sept. 1, 2010, we acquired I(3) Advisors of Toronto, an independent wealth advisory company, for cash of $21.1 million. Goodwill related to this acquisition totaled $8 million and is non-tax
deductible. Customer relationship intangible assets related to this acquisition totaled $10 million with a life of 33 years.       Divestitures
in 2010       On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold MUNB, our national bank subsidiary located in Florida. The results for MUNB were classified as
discontinued operations. See Note 4 for additional information on the MUNB transaction.       Acquisitions in 2009    
  In November 2009, we acquired Insight Investment Management Limited ( Insight ) for $377 million of cash and stock. Goodwill related to this
acquisition is non-tax deductible and totaled $202 million. Intangible assets (primarily customer contracts) related to the transaction, with a life up to 11 years, totaled $111 million.

104     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 4 Discontinued operations    
   On Jan. 15, 2010, BNY Mellon sold MUNB, our former national bank subsidiary located in Florida. We applied discontinued operations
accounting to this business. Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is as follows:       

Discontinued operations assets and liabilities   

Dec. 31,   

(in millions)   
      
   2011   

2010  

Loans, net of allowance for loan losses   
      
   $   
   -   

$  
  183  

Deferred taxes   

-   

90  

Other assets   

-   

5  

Assets of discontinued operations   
      
   $   
   -   

$  
  278  

Liabilities of discontinued operations   
      
   $   
   -   

$  
  -  
       
    Certain loans were not sold as part of the MUNB transaction and are held-for-sale. Effective Jan. 1, 2011, we
reclassified the remaining assets of discontinued operations of $278 million to continuing operations. Loans of $114 million at Dec. 31, 2011, are included in other assets on the balance sheet. These loans are recorded at the lower of cost or
market. In 2011, we recorded income of $100 million primarily related to paydowns and valuation changes on loans held-for-sale.      Information
for 2010 and 2009 included in these Financial Statements and Notes reflects continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.

Note 5 Securities    
   The following tables present the amortized cost, the gross unrealized gains and losses and the fair value of securities at Dec. 31,
2011 and 2010.       

(a)   
   Includes $13.1 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.

BNY
Mellon     105   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Includes $11.0 billion, at fair value, of government-sponsored and guaranteed entities, and sovereign debt.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.

Temporarily impaired securities       At Dec. 31, 2011, substantially all of the unrealized losses on the investment securities portfolio were attributable to credit spreads widening since purchase, and interest rate movements. We do not
intend to sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will have to sell.   

106     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The following tables show the aggregate related fair value of investments with a continuous unrealized
loss position for less than 12 months and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for 12 months or more.       

(a)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust. The Grantor Trust was dissolved in 2011.      

(a)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      
         BNY
Mellon     107   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The following table shows the maturity distribution by carrying amount and yield (on a tax equivalent
basis) of our investment securities portfolio at Dec. 31, 2011.       

(a)   
   Yields are based upon the amortized cost of securities.      

(b)   
   Includes money market funds.      

Other-than-temporary impairment       We routinely conduct periodic reviews of all securities using economic models to identify and evaluate each investment security to determine whether OTTI has occurred. Various inputs to the economic
models are used to determine if an unrealized loss on securities is other-than-temporary. For example, the most significant inputs related to non-agency RMBS are:       

Default rate the number of mortgage loans expected to go into default over the life of the transaction, which is driven by the roll rate of loans
in each performance bucket that will ultimately migrate to default; and      

Severity the loss expected to be realized when a loan defaults.         To determine if an unrealized loss is other-than-temporary, we project total estimated defaults of the underlying assets (mortgages) and multiply that calculated amount by an estimate of realizable value
upon sale of these assets in the marketplace (severity)

in order to determine the projected collateral loss. We also evaluate the current credit enhancement underlying the bond to determine the impact on cash flows. If we determine that a given
security will be subject to a write-down or loss, we record the expected credit loss as a charge to earnings.      In addition, we have estimated
the expected loss by taking into account observed performance of the underlying securities, industry studies, market forecasts, as well as our view of the economic outlook affecting collateral.  
  The table below shows the projected weighted-average default rates and loss severities for the 2007, 2006 and late 2005 non-agency RMBS at Dec. 31, 2011
and 2010.       

108     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The following table provides pre-tax net securities gains (losses) by type.   
   
    The following table reflects investment securities credit losses recorded in earnings. The beginning balance represents
the credit loss component for which OTTI occurred on debt securities in prior periods. The additions represent the first time a debt security was credit impaired or when subsequent credit impairments have occurred. The deductions represent credit
losses on securities that have been sold, are required to be sold or it is our intention to sell.       
    At Dec. 31, 2011, assets amounting to $77.0 billion were pledged primarily for potential borrowing at the Federal Reserve
Discount Window. The significant components of pledged assets were as follows: $68.2 billion of securities, $4.9 billion of interest-bearing deposits with banks and $3.9 billion of loans. Also included in these pledged assets was securities
available-for-sale of $1.6 billion which were pledged as collateral for actual borrowings. The lenders in these borrowings have the right to repledge or sell these securities. We obtain securities under resale, securities borrowed and custody
agreements on terms which permit us to repledge or resell the securities to others. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the market value of the securities received that can be sold or repledged was $14.0 billion. We routinely repledge or lend these securities to
third parties. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the market value of collateral repledged and sold was $2.5 billion.

Note 6 Loans and asset quality    
    Loans       The table
below provides the details of our loan distribution and industry concentrations of credit risk at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010:       

(a)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis.      
 
  In the ordinary course of business, we and our banking subsidiaries have made loans at prevailing interest rates and terms to our directors and executive
officers and to entities in which certain of our directors have an ownership interest or direct or indirect subsidiaries of such entities. The aggregate amount of these loans was $3 million at both Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, and $4 million at
Dec. 31, 2009. These loans are primarily extensions of credit under revolving lines of credit established for such entities.      Our loan
portfolio is comprised of three portfolio segments: commercial, lease financing and mortgages. We manage our portfolio at the class level which is comprised of six classes of financing receivables: commercial, commercial real estate, financial
institutions, lease financings, wealth management loans and mortgages, and other residential mortgages. The following tables are presented for each class of financing receivable, and provide additional information about our credit risks and the
adequacy of our allowance for credit losses.   

BNY
Mellon     109   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Allowance for credit losses       Transactions in the allowance for credit losses are summarized as follows:       

110     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Nonperforming assets       The table below sets forth information about our nonperforming assets.       

(a)   
   Loans of consolidated investment management funds are not part of BNY Mellon s loan portfolio. Included in these loans are nonperforming loans of $101 million
at Dec. 31, 2011 and $218 million at Dec. 31, 2010. These loans are recorded at fair value and therefore do not impact the provision for credit losses and allowance for loan losses, and accordingly are excluded from the nonperforming assets table
above.      
 
   At Dec. 31, 2011, undrawn commitments to borrowers whose loans were classified as nonaccrual or reduced
rate were not material.       Lost interest        

Lost interest   

(in millions)   
      
   2011   

2010  

2009  

Amount by which interest income recognized on nonperforming loans exceeded reversals:   

Total   
      
   $   
   2   

$  
  2  

$  
  2  

Foreign   

-   

-  

-  

Amount by which interest income would have increased if nonperforming loans at year-end had been performing for the entire
year:   

Total  (a)    
      
   $   
   17   

$  
  20  

$  
  19  

Foreign   

-   

-  

-  

BNY
Mellon     111   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Impaired loans       The table below sets forth information about our impaired loans. We use the discounted cash flow method as the primary method for valuing impaired loans.   

(a)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under
the accounting standard related to impaired loans.      

(b)   
   The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.      

(a)   
   The allowance for impaired loans is included in the allowance for loan losses.      

(b)   
   When the discounted cash flows, collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carrying value of the loan, then the loan does not require an allowance under
the accounting standard related to impaired loans.      

112     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Past due loans       The table below sets forth information about our past due loans.       

Troubled debt restructurings ( TDRs )    
  A modified loan is considered a TDR if the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties and the creditor grants a concession to the debtor that would
not otherwise be considered. A TDR may include a transfer of real estate or other assets from the debtor to the creditor, or a modification of the term of the loan. Not all modified loans are considered TDRs. At Dec. 31, 2011, there were no unfunded
lending-related commitments to debtors whose terms have been modified in TDRs.      As a result of adopting ASU 2011-02,  Receivables (Topic
310): A Creditor s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring  effective July 1, 2011, we reassessed all loan restructurings that occurred on or after Jan. 1, 2011 through June 30, 2011 and determined
that no additional modified loans would have qualified as TDRs.      In the fourth quarter of 2011, 11 other residential mortgage loans were
restructured in TDRs. The pre-modification and post-modification outstanding recorded investment was $5 million. The

modifications of the other residential mortgage loans consisted of reducing the stated interest rate and in certain cases, extending the interest only payment period and/or maturity date. The
value of modified loans is based on the fair value of the collateral. Probable loss factors are applied to the value of the modified loans to determine the allowance for credit losses.      One of the residential mortgage loans that had been restructured in a TDR during the previous 12 months subsequently defaulted during the fourth quarter of 2011. The total recorded investment of this loan
was less than $1 million.       Credit quality indicators       Our credit strategy is to focus on investment grade names to support cross-selling opportunities, avoid single name/industry concentrations and exit high-risk portfolios. Each customer is assigned an
internal rating grade which is mapped to an external rating agency grade equivalent based upon a number of dimensions which are continually evaluated and may change over time.

The following tables set forth
information about credit quality indicators.       Commercial loan portfolio    

BNY
Mellon     113   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The commercial loan portfolio is divided into investment grade and non-investment grade categories based on
rating criteria largely consistent with those of the public rating agencies. Each customer in the portfolio is assigned an internal rating grade. These internal rating grades are generally consistent with the ratings categories of the public rating
agencies. Customers with ratings consistent with BBB- (S P)/Baa3 (Moody s) or better are considered to be investment grade. Those clients with ratings lower than this threshold are considered to be non-investment grade.   
   Wealth management loans and mortgages        
    Wealth management non-mortgage loans are not typically rated by external rating agencies. A majority of the wealth
management loans are secured by the customers  investment management accounts or custody accounts. Eligible assets pledged for these loans are typically investment grade, fixed income securities, equities and/or mutual funds. Internal ratings
for this portion of the wealth management portfolio, therefore, would equate to investment-grade external ratings. Wealth management loans are provided to select customers based on the pledge of other types of assets, including business assets,
fixed assets, or a modest amount of commercial real estate. For the loans collateralized by other assets, the credit quality of the obligor is carefully analyzed, but we do not consider this portfolio of loans to be of investment grade quality.
     Credit quality indicators for wealth management mortgages are not correlated to external ratings. Wealth management mortgages are typically
loans to high-net-worth individuals, which are secured primarily by residential property. These loans are primarily interest-only adjustable rate mortgages with an average loan to value ratio of 62% at origination. In the wealth management
portfolio, 1% of the mortgages were past due at Dec. 31, 2011.      At Dec. 31, 2011, the private wealth mortgage portfolio was comprised of the
following geographic

concentrations: New York   24%; Massachusetts   17%; California   17%; Florida   8%; and other   34%.       Other residential mortgages       The other residential mortgage portfolio primarily consists
of one to four family residential mortgage loans and totaled $1,923 million at Dec. 31, 2011. These loans are not typically correlated to external ratings. Included in this portfolio is $596 million of mortgage loans purchased in 2005, 2006 and the
first quarter of 2007 that are predominantly prime mortgage loans, with a small portion of Alt-A loans. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the purchased loans in this portfolio had a weighted-average loan-to-value ratio of 76% at origination and 28% of these
loans were at least 60 days delinquent. The properties securing the prime and Alt-A mortgage loans were located (in order of concentration) in California, Florida, Virginia, Maryland and the tri-state area (New York, New Jersey and Connecticut).
      Overdrafts       Overdrafts
primarily relate to custody and securities clearance clients and totaled $4,849 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and $6,049 million at Dec. 31, 2010. Overdrafts occur on a daily basis in the custody and securities clearance business and are generally
repaid within two business days.       Margin loans       We had $12,760 million of secured margin loans on our balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2011, compared with $6,810 million at Dec. 31, 2010. Margin loans are collateralized with marketable securities and
borrowers are required to maintain a daily collateral margin in excess of 100% of the value of the loan. We have rarely suffered a loss on these types of loans and do not allocate any of our allowance for credit losses to them.   
   Other loans       Other loans primarily
includes loans to consumers that are fully collateralized with equities, mutual funds and fixed income securities, as well as bankers  acceptances.       Reverse repurchase agreements       Reverse repurchase agreements are transactions fully
collateralized with high-quality liquid securities. These transactions carry minimal credit risk and therefore are not allocated an allowance for credit losses.

114     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 7 Goodwill and intangible assets    
    Goodwill impairment testing       BNY Mellon s three business segments include seven reporting units for which annual goodwill impairment testing is done in accordance with ASC 350. The Investment Management segment is comprised of
two reporting units; the Investment Services segment is comprised of four reporting units; and one reporting unit is included in the Other segment.      The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. The first step compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of
the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired. However, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit were to exceed its estimated fair value, a second step would be performed that would
compare the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss would be recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value.

The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment testing for all reporting units in the second quarter of 2011.      The broad decline of stock prices throughout the U.S. stock market in the second half of 2011 also impacted the Company s stock price, which declined below the Company s net book value per
share. As a result of this sustained decline in the second half of 2011, the Company performed an interim goodwill test of all its reporting units in the fourth quarter of 2011. The estimated fair values of each of the Company s reporting units
exceeded their carrying values in the interim test and no goodwill impairment was recognized.       Goodwill    
  The level of goodwill decreased in 2011 compared with 2010 as a result of the sale of Shareowner Services and foreign exchange translation on non-U.S.
dollar denominated goodwill, partially offset by the acquisitions of Penson Financial Services, Talon Asset Management and contingent payments on previous acquisitions.

The table below provides a breakdown
of goodwill by business.       

(a)   
   Other changes in goodwill include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      

Intangible assets       The decrease in intangible assets in 2011 compared with 2010 resulted from amortization of intangible assets and the sale of Shareowner Services, partially offset by the acquisition of customer contracts
in the Investment Services and Investment Management businesses. Also, in 2011, we recorded $9 million in

impairment charges to write-down the value of a software technology intangible to its fair value. This
impairment charge is included in other expense on the income statement.      Amortization of intangible assets was $428 million, $421 million and
$426 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

BNY
Mellon     115   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
   The table below provides a breakdown of intangible assets by business.   

(a)   
   Other changes in intangible assets include purchase price adjustments and certain other reclassifications.      
  The table below provides a breakdown of intangible assets by type.       

(a)   
   Intangible assets not subject to amortization have an indefinite life.      

Estimated annual amortization expense for current intangibles for the next five years is as follows:

Note 8 Other assets    

(a)   
   Includes Federal Reserve Bank stock of $429 million and $400 million, respectively, at cost.

116     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Seed capital and private equity investments valued using net asset value per share    
  In our Investment Management business, we manage investment assets, including equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for
institutions and other investors; as part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. BNY Mellon also holds private equity investments, which consist of investments in private

equity funds, mezzanine financings and direct equity investments. Seed capital and private equity investments are included in other assets. Consistent with our policy to focus on our core
activities, we continue to reduce our exposure to private equity investments.      The fair value of these investments has been estimated using
the net asset value ( NAV ) per share of BNY Mellon s ownership interest in the funds. The table below presents information about BNY Mellon s investments in seed capital and private equity investments.

Seed capital and private equity investments valued using NAV   Dec. 31, 2011   

(dollar amounts   in millions)   
      
  Fair Value  

Unfunded commitments  

Redemption frequency  

Redemption notice period  

Hedge funds  (a)    
      
  $  
  9  

$  
  -  

Monthly-quarterly  

3-45 days  

Private equity funds  (b)    

122  

24  

N/A  

N/A  

Other funds  (c)    

63  

-  

Monthly-yearly  

(c   
   )     
 
    Total   
      
   $   
   194   

$   
   24   

(a)   
   Hedge funds include multi-strategy funds that utilize a variety of investment strategies and equity long-short hedge funds that include various funds that invest
over both long-term investment and short-term investment horizons.      

(b)   
   Private equity funds primarily include numerous venture capital funds that invest in various sectors of the economy. Private equity funds do not have redemption
rights. Distributions from such funds will be received as the underlying investments in the funds are liquidated.      

(c)   
   Other funds include various market neutral, leveraged loans, real estate and structured credit funds. Redemption notice periods vary by fund.
     
         BNY
Mellon     117   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 9 Deposits    
   Total time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or greater was $44.2 billion at Dec. 31, 2011, and $35.3 billion at Dec. 31, 2010. At
Dec. 31, 2011, the scheduled maturities of all time deposits are as follows: 2012   $44.6 billion; 2013   $3 million; 2014   $20 million; 2015   $3 million; 2016  $- million; and 2017 and thereafter   $4 million.
  
      Note 10 Net interest revenue    

Note 11 Other noninterest expense    
   The following table provides a breakdown of other noninterest expense presented on the consolidated income statement.   

Note 12 Restructuring charges    
    Operational efficiency initiatives       In 2011, we announced our operational efficiency initiatives which include an expense reduction initiative impacting approximately 1,500 positions or approximately 3% of our global workforce, as well as
additional initiatives to transform operations, technology and corporate services that will increase productivity and reduce the growth rate of expenses. We recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $107 million related to the global efficiency
initiatives in 2011. The aggregate restructuring charge is recorded as a separate line on the income statement. This charge was comprised of $78 million of severance costs and $29 million primarily for operating lease-related items and consulting
costs. The following table presents the activity in the restructuring reserve related to the operational efficiency initiatives through Dec. 31, 2011.       
    This restructuring charge was recorded in the Other segment as it is a corporate initiative and not directly related to
the operating performance of the businesses. The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.       

Operational efficiency initiatives 2011   restructuring charge by business   

(in millions)   
      
   2011   

Investment Management   
      
   $   
   17   

Investment Services   

41   

Other segment (including Business Partners)   

49   

Total restructuring charge   
      
   $   
   107   

118     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Global location strategy       BNY Mellon continues to execute its global location strategy. This strategy includes migrating positions to our global growth centers and is expected to result in moving and/or eliminating approximately
2,400 positions. In 2009, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $139 million related to this strategy. This charge was comprised of $102 million for severance costs and $37 million primarily for asset write-offs and expense related to the
closing of offices. In 2011, we recorded a recovery of $15 million associated with the global location strategy.      Severance payments related
to these positions are primarily paid over the salary continuance period in accordance with the separation plan.      The following table presents
the activity in the restructuring reserve related to the global location strategy through Dec. 31, 2011.       
    This restructuring charge was recorded in the Other segment as it is a corporate initiative and not directly related to
the operating performance of the businesses. The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.       

Workforce reduction program       In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced that, due to weakness in the global economy, we would reduce our workforce by an estimated 1,800 positions, and as a result, recorded a pre-tax restructuring
charge of $181 million. In 2011, we recorded a recovery of $3 million associated with this workforce reduction program.      We completed this
program in 2010. At Dec. 31, 2011, severance payments related to positions covered by this program were substantially completed.      The
following table presents the activity in the restructuring reserve related to the workforce reduction program through Dec. 31, 2011.       
    This restructuring charge was recorded in the Other segment as it is a corporate initiative and not directly related to
the operating performance of the businesses. The table below presents the restructuring charge if it had been allocated by business.       

BNY
Mellon     119   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 13 Income taxes    

The components of income (loss) before taxes are as follows:       
 
    The components of our net deferred tax liability are as follows:       
    As of Dec. 31, 2011, we have net operating loss carryforwards for state and local income tax purposes of $1.6 billion
which will expire in 2029. We have a German net operating loss carryforward of $110 million with an indefinite life. In addition, we have

alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards of $45 million with an indefinite life. We have not recorded a valuation allowance because we expect to realize our deferred tax assets including
these carryovers.      As of Dec. 31, 2011, we had approximately $3.5 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries that have been
permanently reinvested abroad and for which no provision has been recorded for income tax that would occur if repatriated. It is not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these
earnings.      The following table presents a reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective income tax rate applicable
to income from continuing operations.       
     
    Our total tax reserves as of Dec. 31, 2011 were $250 million compared with $289 million at Dec. 31, 2010. If these tax
reserves were unnecessary, $250 million would affect the effective tax rate in future periods. We recognize accrued interest and penalties, if applicable, related to income taxes in income tax expense. Included in the balance sheet at Dec. 31, 2011
is accrued interest, where applicable, of $59 million. The additional tax expense related to interest for the year ended Dec. 31, 2011 was $31 million compared with $9 million for the year ended Dec. 31, 2010.   
  As previously disclosed, on Nov. 10, 2009 BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court

120     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

challenging the IRS  disallowance of certain foreign tax credits claimed for the 2001 and 2002 tax years. The aggregate tax for all of the years in question is approximately $900 million,
including interest. A trial is currently scheduled for April 16, 2012. See Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. BNY Mellon continues to believe the tax treatment of the transaction was consistent
with statutory and judicial authority existing at the time of the transaction. However, if there is a decision by the courts in similar litigation with unrelated taxpayers before the BNY Mellon matter is decided and that decision adopts the
Government s expansive view of economic substance

for disallowing foreign tax credits, BNY Mellon may be required to re-evaluate its uncertain tax position with respect to this matter. If a re-evaluation is required, it is reasonably possible
that the total reserve for uncertain tax positions, pursuant to ASC 740 (FASB Interpretation 48), could increase within the next 12 months by a net amount up to $850 million.      Our federal consolidated income tax returns are closed to examination through 2002. Our New York State and New York City return examinations have been completed through 2008. Our United Kingdom income tax
returns are closed through 2008.   

Note 14 Long-term debt    

(a)   
   Fixed rate.      

Total long-term debt that matures during the next five years for BNY Mellon is as follows: 2012  
$3.45 billion, 2013   $1.61 billion, 2014   $4.36 billion, 2015   $1.90 billion and 2016   $1.85 billion. At Dec. 31, 2011, subordinated debt aggregating $249 million will be redeemable at our option as follows: 2012   $142
million, and 2013   $107 million.       Junior subordinated debentures       Wholly owned subsidiaries of BNY Mellon (the  Trusts ) have issued cumulative Company-Obligated Mandatory Redeemable Trust Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trust Holding Solely Junior
Subordinated Debentures ( trust preferred securities ). The sole assets of each trust are junior subordinated deferrable

interest debentures of BNY Mellon whose maturities and interest rates match the trust preferred securities. Our obligations under the agreements that relate to the trust preferred securities, the
Trusts and the debentures constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by us of the Trusts  obligations under the trust preferred securities. The assets for Mellon Capital IV are currently (i) our remarketable 6.044% junior subordinated
notes due 2043, and (ii) interests in stock purchase contracts between Mellon Capital IV and us. On June 20, 2012, the  stock purchase date,  as defined in the prospectus supplement for the trust preferred securities of Mellon
Capital IV, the sole assets of the trust will become shares of a series of our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock.   

The following table sets forth a
summary of the Trust Preferred Securities issued by the Trusts as of Dec. 31, 2011:       

(a)   
   Junior subordinated debentures and interest in stock purchase contracts for Mellon Capital IV.      

(b)   
   Call price decreases ratably to par in the year 2016.      
 
         BNY
Mellon     121   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

We have the option to shorten the maturity of BNY Capital IV to 2013 or extend the maturity to 2047. The
BNY Capital Trust Preferred Securities have been converted to floating rate via interest rate swaps.   
      Note 15 Securitizations and variable interest entities    
    Variable Interest Entities       Accounting guidance on the consolidation of VIEs is included in ASC 810,  Consolidation , and ASU 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest
Entities.       Effective Jan. 1, 2010, the FASB approved ASU 2010-10  Amendments for Certain Investment Funds,  which defers the
requirements of ASU 2009-17 for asset managers  interests in entities that apply the specialized accounting guidance for investment companies or that have the attributes of investment companies and for interests in money market funds.
     Accounting guidance on the consolidation of VIEs applies to certain entities in which the equity investors:   

do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional financial support, or      

lack one or more of the following characteristics of a controlling financial interest:      

The power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity s economic
performance (ASU 2009-17 model).      

The direct or indirect ability to make decisions about the entity s activities through voting rights or similar rights (ASC 810 model).

The obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity.      

The right to receive the expected residual returns of the entity.         BNY Mellon s VIEs generally include retail, institutional and alternative investment funds offered to its retail and institutional customers in which it acts as the fund s investment manager.
BNY Mellon earns management fees on these funds as well as performance fees in certain funds. It may also provide start-up capital in its new funds. These VIEs are

included in the scope of ASU 2010-10 and are reviewed for consolidation based on the guidance in ASC 810.      BNY Mellon applies ASC 810 to its mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, collective investment funds and real estate investment trusts. If these entities are determined to be VIEs, primary
beneficiary calculations are prepared in accordance with ASC 810 to determine whether or not BNY Mellon is the primary beneficiary and required to consolidate the VIE. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the
variable interests  expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns or both.      The primary beneficiary calculations
include estimates of ranges and probabilities of losses and returns from the funds. The calculated expected gains and expected losses are allocated to the variable interest holders of the funds, which are generally the fund s investors and
which may include BNY Mellon, in order to determine which entity is required to consolidate the VIE, if any.      BNY Mellon has other VIEs,
including securitization trusts, which are no longer considered QSPEs, and CLOs, in which BNY Mellon serves as the investment manager. In addition, we provide trust and custody services for a fee to entities sponsored by other corporations in which
we have no other interest. These VIEs are evaluated under the guidance included in ASU 2009-17. BNY Mellon has two securitizations and several CLOs, which are assessed for consolidation in accordance with ASU 2009-17.   
  The primary beneficiary of these VIEs is the entity whose variable interests provide it with a controlling financial interest, which includes the power
to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.   
  In order to determine if it has a controlling financial interest in these VIEs, BNY Mellon assesses the VIE s purpose and design along with the
risks it was designed to create and pass through to its variable interest holders. We also assess our involvement in the VIE and the involvement of any other variable interest holders in the VIE.   
  Generally, as the sponsor and the manager of its VIEs, BNY Mellon has the power to control the activities that significantly impact the VIE s
economic   

122     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

performance. Both a qualitative and quantitative analysis of BNY Mellon s variable interests are performed to determine if BNY Mellon has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the
right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The analyses included assessments related to the expected performance of the VIEs and its related impact on BNY Mellon s seed capital, management fees or
residual interests in the VIEs. We also assess any potential impact the VIE s expected performance has on our performance fees.      The
following tables present the incremental assets and liabilities included in BNY Mellon s consolidated financial statements, after applying intercompany eliminations, as of Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, based on the assessments performed in
accordance with ASC 810 and ASU 2009-17. The net assets of any consolidated VIE are solely available to settle the liabilities of the VIE and to settle any investors  ownership liquidation requests, including any seed capital invested in the
VIE by BNY Mellon.       

BNY Mellon voluntarily provided capital support agreements to certain VIEs (see below). With the exception
of these agreements, we are not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our VIEs. Additionally, creditors of any consolidated VIEs do not have any recourse to the general credit of BNY Mellon.   
   Non-consolidated VIEs       As of Dec. 31,
2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, the following assets related to the VIEs, where BNY Mellon is not the primary beneficiary, are included in our consolidated financial statements.   

The maximum loss exposure indicated in the above tables relate solely to BNY Mellon s seed capital or residual
interests invested in the VIEs.       Credit supported VIEs       BNY Mellon voluntarily provided limited credit support to certain money market, collective, commingled and separate account funds (the  Funds ). Entering into such support agreements represents
an event under ASC 810, and is subject to its interpretations.      In analyzing the Funds for which credit support was provided, it was
determined that interest rate risk and credit risk are the two main risks that the Funds are designed to create and pass through to their investors. Accordingly, interest rate and credit risk were analyzed to determine if BNY Mellon was the primary
beneficiary of each of the Funds.      BNY Mellon s analysis of the credit risk variability and interest rate risk variability associated
with the supported Funds resulted in BNY Mellon not being the primary beneficiary and therefore the Funds were not consolidated.

BNY
Mellon     123   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The tables below show the financial statement items related to non-consolidated VIEs to which we have
provided credit support agreements at Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010.       

Credit supported VIEs at Dec. 31, 2011   

Maximum  
  loss  
  exposure   

(in millions)   
      
  Assets  

Liabilities  

Other   
      
   $   
   -   

$   
   -   

$   
   -   

Credit supported VIEs at Dec. 31, 2010   

Maximum  
  loss  
  exposure   

(in millions)   
      
  Assets  

Liabilities  

Other   
      
  $  
  -  

$  
  -  

$  
  13  
       
     Consolidated credit supported VIEs       Certain funds have been created solely with securities that are subject to credit support agreements where we have agreed to absorb the majority of loss. Accordingly, these funds have been consolidated
into BNY Mellon and have affected the following financial statement items at Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010.       
     
    The maximum loss exposure shown above for the credit support agreements provided to BNY Mellon s VIEs primarily
reflects a complete loss on the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. securities for BNY Mellon s clients that accepted our offer of support. As of Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon recorded $22 million in liabilities related to its VIEs for which credit
support agreements were provided.   
      Note 16 Shareholders  equity    
   BNY Mellon has 3.5 billion authorized shares of common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share, 100 million authorized shares
of preferred stock with a par value of $0.01 per share. At Dec. 31, 2011,

1,209,674,607 shares of common stock were outstanding. There were no shares of preferred stock outstanding at Dec. 31, 2011.       Temporary equity       Temporary equity was $114 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and $92 million at
Dec. 31, 2010. Temporary equity represents amounts recorded for redeemable non-controlling interests resulting from equity-classified share-based payment arrangements that are currently redeemable or are expected to become redeemable. The current
redemption value of such awards is classified as temporary equity and is adjusted to its redemption value at each balance sheet date.   
   Troubled Asset Relief Program       In 2008,
BNY Mellon issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury $3 billion of preferred stock and a warrant to purchase shares of common stock in accordance with the terms of the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program.   
  In 2009, BNY Mellon repurchased the Series B preferred stock for its $3 billion liquidation value. BNY Mellon recorded an after-tax redemption charge of
$196.5 million in 2009, representing the difference between the amortized cost of the Series B preferred stock and the repurchase price.      Also
in 2009, BNY Mellon repurchased for $136 million the warrant for 14,516,129 shares of our common stock.       Common stock repurchase program
      On Dec. 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to 35 million shares of common stock. On
March 22, 2011, the Board of Directors of BNY Mellon authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 13 million shares of common stock. In 2011, we repurchased 34.8 million shares in the open market, at an average price of $24.00 per
share for a total of $835 million. At Dec. 31, 2011, 12.0 million common shares were available for repurchase under the program. There is no expiration date on the share repurchase authorizations.   
   Capital adequacy       Regulators establish
certain levels of capital for bank holding companies and banks, including BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries, in accordance with established quantitative measurements. For the Parent

124     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

to maintain its status as a financial holding company, our bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon must, among other things, qualify as well capitalized.   
  As of Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, BNY Mellon and our bank subsidiaries were considered well capitalized on the basis of the Basel I Total and Tier 1 capital
to risk-weighted assets ratios and the leverage ratio (Basel I Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets as defined for regulatory purposes).   
  Our consolidated and largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, capital ratios are shown below.   

(a)   
   Determined under Basel I guidelines. For a banking institution to qualify as  well capitalized,  its Basel I Tier 1, Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) and
leverage capital ratios must be at least 6%, 10% and 5%, respectively. For The Bank of New York Mellon, our largest bank subsidiary, to qualify as  adequately capitalized ,  Basel I Tier 1, Total and leverage capital ratios must be at
least 4%, 8% and 3%, respectively.         If a financial holding company such as BNY Mellon fails to qualify as well capitalized,
it may lose its status as a financial holding company, which may restrict its ability to undertake or continue certain activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without financial holding company
status. If a bank holding company such as BNY Mellon or bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. fails to qualify as  well capitalized,  it may be subject to higher FDIC assessments.

If a bank holding company such as BNY Mellon or bank such as The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon,
N.A. fails to qualify as adequately capitalized, regulatory sanctions and limitations are imposed. At Dec. 31, 2011, the amounts of capital by which BNY Mellon and our largest bank subsidiary, The Bank of New York Mellon, exceed the well capitalized
guidelines are as follows:       
    The following table presents the components of our Basel I Tier 1 and total risk-based capital at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010.

(a)   
   On a regulatory basis as determined under Basel I guidelines.      

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.      

BNY
Mellon     125   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 17 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)    

(b)   
   Includes a net reclassification adjustment of $14 million to retained earnings from other comprehensive income.      

Note 18 Stock-based compensation    
   Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units ( RSUs )
and other stock-based awards to employees of BNY Mellon. At Dec. 31, 2011, under the Long-Term Incentive Plan approved in April 2011, we may issue 50,858,398 new options. Of this amount, 28,528,609 shares may be issued as restricted stock or RSUs.
Stock-based compensation expense related to retirement eligibility vesting totaled $31 million in 2011, $25 million in 2010, and $16 million in 2009.

Stock options       Our Long-Term Incentive Plans provide for the issuance of stock options at fair market value at the date of grant to officers and employees of BNY Mellon. Generally, each option granted is exercisable
between one and ten years from the date of grant.      The compensation cost that has been charged against income was $96 million for 2011, $87
million for 2010 and $86 million for 2009. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $40 million for 2011, $35 million for 2010 and $35 million for 2009.

126     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

We used a lattice-based binomial method to calculate the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of
each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the weighted-average assumptions noted in the following table:       

For 2011, 2010 and 2009, assumptions were determined as follows:   

Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our stock, historical volatility of our stock, and other factors.

We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within the valuation model.      

The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of grant.

The expected term of options granted is derived from the output of the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options granted
are expected to be outstanding.      

A summary of the status of our
options as of Dec. 31, 2011, and changes during the year, is presented below:       

The weighted-average fair value of options at grant date was $8.47 in 2011, $8.38 in 2010 and $4.59 in 2009.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $7 million in 2011, $12 million in 2010 and $3 million
in 2009.      As of Dec. 31, 2011, $110 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested options is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.   

BNY
Mellon     127   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Cash received from option exercises totaled $18 million in 2011, $31 million in 2010 and $16 million in
2009. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from options exercised totaled $2 million in 2011, $1 million in 2010 and $4 million in 2009.       Restricted stock, restricted stock units ( RSU ) and Total Shareholder Return ( TSR ) awards       Restricted stock and RSUs are granted under our Long-Term Incentive Plans at no cost to the recipient.      These awards are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment, for a specified period. The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting
rights and generally is entitled to dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse. The recipient generally is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to
any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding but does not receive voting rights.      The fair value
of restricted stock and RSUs is equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is generally three years. The total compensation expense recognized for restricted
stock, RSUs and TSRs was $134 million in 2011, $119 million in 2010 and $124 million in 2009. The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $52 million for 2011, $46 million for 2010 and $48 million for 2009.   
  In March 2008, BNY Mellon granted TSR awards. Under the terms of the TSR Performance share awards, a target award comprised of restricted stock was
granted to an employee at the beginning of the three-year performance period beginning on Jan. 1, 2008 through Dec. 31, 2010. BNY Mellon s actual TSR for the performance period is compared to the results of a peer group (weighted two-thirds)
and an S P 500 Financial Services Index (weighted one-third). Based on the final calculations, 76% of the target awards (150,038 shares of the target number of performance shares) were earned and released to the participants. The remaining
shares that were not earned were forfeited. As of Dec. 31, 2011, there were no TSR awards outstanding.      In 2011, 817,698 of RSUs were granted
to members of BNY Mellon s Executive Committee which contained certain performance criteria that were achieved in 2011. The actual number of units that vest

is subject to negative discretion by BNY Mellon s Human Resources and Compensation Committee. As a result, these shares are subject to variable accounting.   
  The following table summarizes our nonvested restricted stock, RSU and TSR activity for 2011.   

As of Dec. 31, 2011, $143 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock
and RSUs is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.4 years.      The total fair value of restricted stock, RSUs and TSRs
that vested was $100 million in 2011, $96 million in 2010 and $72 million in 2009.       Subsidiary Long-Term Incentive plans    
  BNY Mellon also has several subsidiary Long-Term Incentive Plans which have issued restricted subsidiary shares to certain employees. These share awards
are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period of time. The shares are non-voting and non-dividend paying. Once the restrictions lapse, which generally occurs in three to five
years, the shares can only be sold, at the option of the employee, to BNY Mellon at a price based generally on the fair value of the subsidiary at the time of repurchase. In certain instances BNY Mellon has an election to call the shares.
  
      Note 19 Employee benefit plans    
   BNY Mellon has defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all full-time and eligible part-time
employees and other post-retirement plans providing healthcare benefits for certain retired employees.   

128     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
    Pension and post-retirement healthcare plans    
  The following tables report the combined data for our domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans.   

(a)   
   The benefit obligation for pension benefits is the projected benefit obligation and for healthcare benefits, it is the accumulated benefit obligation.
     
         BNY
Mellon     129   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Includes discontinued operations.          

Changes in other comprehensive (income) loss in 2011   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

Net loss (gain) arising during period   
      
   $   
   653   

$   
   22   

$   
   71   

$   
   1   

Recognition of prior years  net gain (loss)   

(109   
   )    

(14   
   )    

(3   
   )    

1   

Prior service cost (credit) arising during period   

-   

-   

-   

-   

Recognition of prior years  service (cost) credit   

16   

-   

1   

-   

Recognition of net initial (obligation) asset   

-   

-   

(5   
   )    

-   

Foreign exchange adjustment   

N/A   

3   

-   

-   

Total recognized in other comprehensive (income) loss (before tax
effects)   
      
   $   
   560   

$   
   11   

$   
   64   

$   
   2   

Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost (income) in 2012 (before tax effects)   
      
  Pension Benefits  

Healthcare Benefits  

(in millions)   
      
  Domestic  

Foreign  

Domestic  

Foreign  

(Gain) loss recognition   
      
   $   
   167   

$   
   12   

$   
   9   

$   
   -   

Prior service cost recognition   

(16   
   )    

-   

-   

-   

Net initial obligation (asset) recognition   

-   

-   

3   

-   

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $4.1 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 and $3.6 billion at
Dec. 31, 2010.   

For information on pension assumptions see the  Critical accounting estimates  section.

130     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Assumed healthcare cost trend Domestic post- retirement healthcare benefits    
  The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used in determining benefit expense for 2012 is 8.00% decreasing to 4.75% in 2022. This projection is based on
various economic models that forecast a decreasing growth rate of healthcare expenses over time. The underlying assumption is that healthcare expense growth cannot outpace gross national product ( GNP ) growth indefinitely, and over time a
lower equilibrium growth rate will be achieved. Further, the growth rate assumed in 2022 bears a reasonable relationship to the discount rate.   
  An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation by
$21.0 million, or 8%, and the sum of the service and interest costs by $0.8 million, or 9%. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by $18.1 million, or 7%, and the sum of the
service and interest costs by $0.7 million, or 8%.       Assumed healthcare cost trend Foreign post-retirement healthcare benefits
      An increase in the healthcare cost trend rate of one percentage point for each year would increase the accumulated post-retirement
benefit obligation by less than $1 million and the sum of the service and interest costs by less than $1 million. Conversely, a decrease in this rate of one percentage point for each year would decrease the benefit obligation by less than $1 million
and the sum of the service and interest costs by less than $1 million.      Investment strategy and asset allocation   
  BNY Mellon is responsible for the administration of various pension and healthcare post-retirement benefits plans, both domestically and internationally.
The domestic plans are administered by BNY Mellon s Benefits Administration Committee, a named fiduciary. Subject to the following, at all relevant times, BNY Mellon s Benefits Investment Committee, another named fiduciary to the domestic
plan, is responsible for the investment of plan assets. The Benefits Investment Committee s responsibilities include the investment of all domestic defined benefit plan assets, as well as the determination of investment options offered to
participants in all domestic defined contribution plans. The Benefits Investment Committee conducts periodic reviews of investment

performance, asset allocation and investment manager suitability. In addition, the Benefits Investment Committee has oversight of the Regional Governance Committees for the foreign defined
benefit plans.      Our investment objective for U.S. and foreign plans is to maximize total return while maintaining a broadly diversified
portfolio for the primary purpose of satisfying obligations for future benefit payments.      Equities are the main holding of the plans.
Alternative investments (including private equities) and fixed income securities provide diversification and, in certain cases, lower the volatility of returns. In general, equity securities and alternative investments within any domestic
plan s portfolio can be maintained in the range of 30% to 70% of total plan assets, fixed-income securities can range from 20% to 50% of plan assets and cash equivalents can be held in amounts ranging from 0% to 5% of plan assets. Actual asset
allocation within the approved ranges varies from time to time based on economic conditions (both current and forecast) and the advice of professional advisors.      Our pension assets were invested as follows at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010:       
    We held no BNY Mellon Corporation stock in our pension plans at Dec. 31, 2010 and 2011. Assets of the U.S.
post-retirement healthcare plan are invested in an insurance contract.      BNY Mellon expects to make cash contributions to fund its defined
benefit pension plans in 2012 of $18 million for the domestic plans and $26 million for the foreign plans.      BNY Mellon expects to make cash
contributions to fund its post-retirement healthcare plans in 2012 of $24 million for the domestic plans and less than $1 million for the foreign plans.

BNY
Mellon     131   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The following benefit payments for BNY Mellon s pension and healthcare plans, which reflect expected
future service as appropriate, are expected to be paid:       
    Effective Jan. 1, 2011, the U.S. pension plan was amended to reduce benefits earned by participants for service after
2010, and to freeze plan participation such that no new employees will enter the plan after Dec. 31, 2010.       Fair value measurement of plan assets
      In accordance with ASC 715, BNY Mellon has established a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements of its pension plan assets
based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset as of the measurement date. The valuation hierarchy is consistent with guidance in ASC 820 which is detailed in Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such
assets pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Cash and currency       This category consists primarily of foreign currency balances. Foreign currency is translated monthly based on current exchange rates.       Common and preferred stock and exchange traded funds       These types of securities are valued
at the closing price reported in the active market in which the individual securities are traded, if available. Where

there are no readily available market quotations, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.   
   Venture capital investments and partnership interests       There are no readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the investments is based on the Plan s ownership percentage of the fair value of the underlying funds as provided
by the fund managers. These funds are typically valued on a quarterly basis. The Plan s venture capital investments and partnership interests are valued at NAV as a practical expedient for fair value.   
   Collective trust funds       There are no
readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the fund is based on the securities in the portfolio, which typically is the amount that the fund might reasonably expect to receive for the securities upon a sale. These funds
are either valued on a daily or monthly basis.       Corporate debt and U.S. and sovereign government obligations    
  Certain corporate debt and government obligations are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the bonds are traded. Other
corporate debt and government obligations are valued based on yields currently available on comparable securities of issuers with similar credit ratings. When quoted prices are not available for identical or similar bonds, the bonds are valued using
discounted cash flows that maximize observable inputs, such as current yields of similar instruments, but includes adjustments for certain risks that may not be observable, such as credit and liquidity risks.   
   U.S. Treasury securities       Treasury
securities are valued at the closing price reported in the active market in which the individual security is traded.       Funds of funds
      There are no readily available market quotations for these funds. The fair value of the fund is based on NAVs of the funds in the
portfolio, which reflects the value of the underlying securities. The fair value of the underlying securities is typically the amount that the fund might reasonably expect to receive upon selling those hard to value or illiquid securities within the
portfolios. For securities that are readily valued,   

132     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

fair value is the closing price at the end of the period. These funds are valued on a monthly basis.      The following tables present the fair value of each major category of plan assets as of Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, by captions and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy. There were no transfers between
Level 1 and Level 2.       

Changes in Level 3 fair value
measurements       The table below includes a rollforward of the plan assets for the years ended Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010 (including the change
in fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.       
 
         BNY
Mellon     133   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs foreign plans for the year ended Dec. 31,
2011   

(in millions)   
      
  Corporate debt funds  

Venture capital and partnership interests  

Total plan assets at fair value  

Fair value at Dec. 31, 2010   
      
  $  
  14  

$  
  41  

$  
  55  

Total gains or (losses) included in earnings (or changes in net assets)   

-  

1  

1  

Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:   

Purchases   

-  

4  

4  

Sales   

-  

(6  
  )   

(6  
  )    
 
     Fair value at Dec. 31, 2011    
      
   $   
   14   

$   
   40   

$   
   54   

The amount of total gains or (losses) included in earnings (or changes in net assets)
attributable to the changes in unrealized gains or losses   
      
  $  
  -  

$  
  1  

$  
  1  

Venture capital and partnership interests and funds of funds valued using net asset value per share
      At Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon had pension and post-retirement plan assets invested in venture capital and partnership interests and funds
of funds valued using net asset value. The fund of funds investments are redeemable at net asset value under agreements with the fund of funds managers.       

Venture capital and partnership interests and funds of funds valued using NAV Dec. 31, 2011   

(dollar amounts       in millions)    
     
  Fair value  

Unfunded commitments  

Redemption frequency  

Redemption notice period  

Venture capital and partnership interests  (a)    
     
  $  
  161  

$  
  36  

N/A  

N/A  

Funds of funds  (b)    

128  

-  

Monthly  

30-45 days  

Total   
     
   $   
   289   

$   
   36   

(a)   
   Venture capital and partnership interests do not have redemption rights. Distributions from such funds will be received as the underlying investments are liquidated.

(b)   
   Funds of funds include multi-strategy hedge funds that utilize investment strategies that invest over both long-term investment and short-term investment horizons.

Defined contribution plans       We have an Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) covering certain domestic full-time employees with more than one year of service. The ESOP works in conjunction with the defined benefit pension
plan. Employees are entitled to the higher of their benefit under the ESOP or such defined benefit pension plan at retirement. Benefits payable under the defined benefit pension plan are offset by the equivalent value of benefits earned under the
ESOP.      Contributions are made equal to required principal and interest payments on borrowings by the ESOP. At Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010,
the ESOP owned 7.1 million and 7.4 million shares of our stock, respectively. The fair value of total ESOP assets was $146 million and $228 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, respectively. There were no contributions and no ESOP
related expense in 2011, 2010 or 2009.      We have defined contribution plans, excluding the ESOP, for which we recognized a cost of $182 million
in 2011, $163 million in 2010 and $163 million in 2009.   

134     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The Benefits Investment Committee appointed Fiduciary Counselors, Inc. to serve as the independent
fiduciary to (i) make certain fiduciary decisions related to the continued prudence of offering the common stock of BNY Mellon or its affiliates as an investment option under the plans other than with respect to plan sponsor decisions, and
(ii) select and monitor any internally managed investments (active or passive, including mutual funds) of BNY Mellon or its affiliates to be offered to participants as investment options under the Plan.   
      Note 20 Company financial information    
   Our bank subsidiaries are subject to dividend limitations under the Federal Reserve Act, as well as national and state banking laws.
Under these statutes, prior regulatory consent is required for dividends in any year that would exceed the bank s net profits for such year combined with retained net profits for the prior two years. Additionally, such bank subsidiaries may not
declare dividends in excess of net profits on hand, as defined, after deducting the amount by which the principal amount of all loans, on which interest is past due for a period of six months or more, exceeds the allowance for credit losses. The
Bank of New York Mellon, which is a New York state chartered bank, is also prohibited from paying dividends in excess of net profits.      The
payment of dividends also is limited by minimum capital requirements imposed on banks. As of Dec. 31, 2011, BNY Mellon s bank subsidiaries exceeded these minimum requirements.      Our bank subsidiaries can declare dividends to the Parent of approximately $1.4 billion, subsequent to Dec. 31, 2011 without the need for a regulatory waiver. In addition, at Dec. 31, 2011, non-bank
subsidiaries of the Parent had liquid assets of approximately $1.4 billion.      The bank subsidiaries declared dividends of $156 million in 2011,
$239 million in 2010 and $659 million in 2009. The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have issued additional guidelines that require bank holding companies and national banks to continually evaluate the level of cash dividends in relation to their
respective operating income, capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.      The Federal Reserve Board policy with respect to
the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies provides that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company should not maintain

a rate of cash dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be
consistent with the holding company s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board can also prohibit a dividend if payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Any increase in BNY
Mellon s ongoing quarterly dividends would require approval from the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of projected
after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.      On Nov. 22, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule requiring U.S. bank
holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, like BNY Mellon, to submit annual capital plans for review. The Federal Reserve will evaluate the bank holding companies  capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy
assessment processes, and their plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.      BNY Mellon s
capital plan was filed with the Federal Reserve on Jan. 9, 2012. The comprehensive capital plan, which was prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, included internally developed baseline and stress projections as well as supervisory baseline and
stress projections using macroeconomic assumptions provided by the Federal Reserve. We also provided the Federal Reserve with projections covering the time period it will take the Company to fully comply with Basel III capital guidelines, including
the 7% Tier 1 common equity, 8.5% Tier 1 capital, and 3% leverage ratios.      The Federal Reserve is expected to provide an initial response to
the capital plan and proposed capital actions, such as dividend payments and share repurchases, no later than March 15, 2012 and more general feedback on the comprehensive capital plan and capital adequacy processes by April 30, 2012.
     To address capital actions planned for prior to March 15, 2012, the bank holding companies were given the opportunity to review and
confirm in December 2011 that the Federal Reserve had no objection to such actions.      The Federal Reserve Act limits and requires collateral
for extensions of credit by our insured subsidiary banks to BNY Mellon and certain of its non-bank

BNY
Mellon     135   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

affiliates. Also, there are restrictions on the amounts of investments by such banks in stock and other securities of BNY Mellon and such affiliates, and restrictions on the acceptance of their
securities as collateral for loans by such banks. Extensions of credit by the banks to each of our affiliates are limited to 10% of such bank s regulatory capital, and in the aggregate for BNY Mellon and all such affiliates to 20%, and
collateral must be between 100% and 130% of the amount of the credit, depending on the type of collateral.      Our insured subsidiary banks are
required to maintain reserve balances with Federal Reserve Banks under the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. Required balances averaged $4.3 billion and $2.2 billion for the years 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  In the event of impairment of the capital stock of one of the Parent s national banks or The Bank of New York Mellon, the Parent, as the banks 
stockholder, could be required to pay such deficiency.      The Parent guarantees the debt issued by Mellon Funding Corporation, a wholly-owned
financing subsidiary of the Company. The Parent also guarantees committed and uncommitted lines of credit of Pershing LLC and Pershing Limited subsidiaries. The Parent guarantees described above are full and unconditional and contain the standard
provisions relating to parent guarantees of subsidiary debt. Additionally, the Parent guarantees or indemnifies obligations of its consolidated subsidiaries as needed. Generally there are no stated notional amounts included in these indemnifications
and the contingencies triggering the obligation for indemnification are not expected to occur. As a result, we are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these indemnifications. However, we believe the possibility is remote that
we will have to make any material payment under these guarantees and indemnifications.

The Parent s condensed financial statements are as follows:   
   Condensed Income Statement The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation )     

(a)   
   Includes the results of discontinued operations.

136     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Condensed Balance Sheet The Bank of        New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)        

Condensed Statement of Cash Flows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (Parent Corporation)

(b)   
   Includes discontinued operations.

BNY
Mellon     137   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 21 Fair value of financial instruments    
   The carrying amounts of our financial instruments (i.e., monetary assets and liabilities) are determined under different accounting
methods see Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      The following disclosure discusses these instruments on a
uniform fair value basis. However, active markets do not exist for a significant portion of these instruments, principally loans and interest-bearing deposits with banks. As a result, fair value determinations require significant subjective
judgments regarding future cash flows. Other judgments would result in different fair values. Among the assumptions we used are discount rates ranging principally from 0.01% to 4.17% at Dec. 31, 2011, and 0.12% to 6.46% at Dec. 31, 2010. The fair
value information supplements the basic financial statements and other traditional financial data presented throughout this report.      Note 22,
 Fair value measurement  presents assets and liabilities measured at fair value by the three level valuation hierarchy established under ASC 820. Note 23,  Fair value option  presents the instruments for which fair value
accounting was elected and the corresponding income statement impact of those instruments. A summary of the practices used for determining fair value is as follows.       Interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements    
  The fair value of interest-bearing deposits with the Federal Reserve and other central banks and federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale
agreements is assumed to equal carrying value due to their short maturity.       Interest-bearing deposits with banks    
  The fair value of interest-bearing deposits with banks is based on discounted cash flows.

Securities, trading activities, and hedging derivatives    
  The fair value of securities and trading assets and liabilities is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes, or pricing models. Fair value amounts
for hedging derivatives, such as options, futures and forward rate contracts, commitments to purchase and sell foreign exchange, and foreign currency swaps, are similarly determined. The fair value of OTC interest rate swaps is the discounted value
of projected future cash flows, adjusted for other factors including, but not limited to and if applicable, optionality and implied volatilities, as well as counterparty credit.       Loans       For residential mortgage loans, fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow
analyses, adjusting where appropriate for prepayment estimates, using interest rates currently being offered for loans with similar terms and maturities to borrowers. To determine the fair value of other types of loans, BNY Mellon uses discounted
cash flows using current market rates.       Other financial assets       Other financial assets primarily include cash and due from banks, and corporate/bank-owned life insurance. The fair value of cash and due from banks is assumed to equal carrying value due to their
short-term nature. The fair value of corporate/bank-owned life insurance is based on the insurance contract cash surrender value.   
   Deposits, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, borrowings and long-term debt    
  The fair value of noninterest-bearing deposits, federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, and payables to customers and
broker-dealers is assumed to be their carrying amount. The fair value of interest-bearing deposits, borrowings, and long-term debt is based upon current rates for instruments of the same remaining maturity or quoted market prices for the same or
similar issues.   

138     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The table below summarizes the carrying amount of the hedged financial instruments, the notional amount of
the hedge and the estimated fair value (unrealized gain (loss)) of the derivatives.       
 
      Note 22 Fair value measurement    
   The guidance related to  Fair Value Measurement,  included in ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received
to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. It establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements
based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and expands the disclosures about instruments measured at fair value. ASC 820 requires consideration of a company s own creditworthiness
when valuing liabilities.      The standard provides a consistent definition of fair value, which focuses on exit price in an orderly transaction
(that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, a
change in valuation technique or the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. In such instances, determining the price at which willing market participants would transact at the measurement date under current market conditions
depends on the facts and circumstances and requires the use of significant judgment. The objective is to determine from weighted indicators of fair value a reasonable point within the range that is most representative of fair value under current
market conditions.   

BNY
Mellon     139   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Determination of fair value       Following is a description of our valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value. We have established processes for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted
market prices in active markets, where available. For financial instruments where quotes from recent exchange transactions are not available, we determine fair value based on discounted cash flow analysis, comparison to similar instruments, and the
use of financial models. Discounted cash flow analysis is dependent upon estimated future cash flows and the level of interest rates. Model-based pricing uses inputs of observable prices, where available, for interest rates, foreign exchange rates,
option volatilities and other factors. Models are benchmarked and validated by an independent internal risk management function. Our valuation process takes into consideration factors such as counterparty credit quality, liquidity, concentration
concerns, and observability of model parameters. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.      Most derivative contracts are valued using internally developed models which are calibrated to observable market data and employ standard market pricing theory for their valuations. An initial
 risk-neutral  valuation is performed on each position assuming time-discounting based on a AA credit curve. Then, to arrive at a fair value that incorporates counterparty credit risk, a credit adjustment is made to these results by
discounting each trade s expected exposures to the counterparty using the counterparty s credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market. We also adjust expected liabilities to the counterparty using BNY Mellon s own
credit spreads, as implied by the credit default swap market. Accordingly, the valuation of our derivative position is sensitive to the current changes in our own credit spreads as well as those of our counterparties.   
  In certain cases, recent prices may not be observable for instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets. Upon evaluating the uncertainty in
valuing financial instruments subject to liquidity issues, we make an adjustment to their value. The determination of the liquidity adjustment includes the availability of external quotes, the time since the latest available quote and the price
volatility of the instrument.      Certain parameters in some financial models are not directly observable and, therefore, are based on
management s estimates and judgments. These financial instruments are normally traded less

actively. We apply valuation adjustments to mitigate the possibility of error and revision in the model based estimate value. Examples include products where parameters such as correlation and
recovery rates are unobservable.      The methods described above for instruments that trade in inactive or less active markets may produce a
current fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. We believe our methods of determining fair value are appropriate and consistent with other market participants. However, the use
of different methodologies or different assumptions to value certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value.   
   Valuation hierarchy       ASC 820
established a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are described below.   
   Level 1 : Inputs to the valuation methodology are recent quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 1
assets and liabilities include debt and equity securities and derivative financial instruments actively traded on exchanges and U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government securities that are actively traded in highly liquid over-the-counter
markets.       Level 2 : Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, for example, quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active
markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable or can be corroborated, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt instruments that are traded less frequently than exchange traded securities and derivative instruments whose model inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by market observable data.
Examples in this category are certain variable and fixed rate agency and non-agency securities, corporate debt securities and derivative contracts.       Level 3 : Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. Examples in this category include interests in certain securitized financial assets,
certain private equity investments, and derivative contracts that are highly structured or long-dated.   

140     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

A financial instrument s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level
of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.      Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments
measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.       Securities
      Where quoted prices are available in an active market, we classify the securities within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities
are defined as both long and short positions. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government bonds, money market mutual funds and exchange-traded equities.      If quoted market prices are not available, we estimate fair values using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. Examples of such instruments,
which would generally be classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy, include certain agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and European floating rate notes.   
  For securities where quotes from recent transactions are not available for identical securities, we determine fair value primarily based on pricing
sources with reasonable levels of price transparency that employ financial models or obtain comparison to similar instruments to arrive at  consensus  prices.      Specifically, the pricing sources obtain recent transactions for similar types of securities (e.g., vintage, position in the securitization structure) and ascertain variables such as discount rate and
speed of prepayment for the types of transaction and apply such variables to similar types of bonds. We view these as observable transactions in the current marketplace and classify such securities as Level 2. Pricing sources discontinue pricing any
specific security whenever they determine there is insufficient observable data to provide a good faith opinion on price.      In addition, we
have significant investments in more actively traded agency RMBS and other types of securities such as FDIC-insured debt and sovereign debt. The pricing sources derive the prices for these securities largely from quotes they obtain from three major
inter-dealer brokers. The pricing sources receive their daily observed trade price and other information feeds from the inter-dealer brokers.

For securities with bond insurance, the financial strength of the insurance provider is analyzed and that
information is included in the fair value assessment for such securities.      In certain cases where there is limited activity or less
transparency around inputs to the valuation, we classify those securities in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Securities classified within Level 3 primarily include other debt securities and securities of state and political subdivisions.
     At Dec. 31, 2011, approximately 99% of our securities were valued by pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Less than
1% of our securities were priced based on economic models and non-binding dealer quotes, and are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.   
   Consolidated collateralized loan obligations       BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market. The returns to the note holders are solely dependent on the assets and accordingly
equal the value of those assets. Based on the structure of the CLOs, the valuation of the assets is attributable to the senior note holders. Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement as investment income
and interest of investment management fund note holders, respectively.       Derivatives    
  We classify exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices in Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include exchanged-traded equity and
foreign exchange options. Since few other classes of derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, most of our derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observable market parameters and we
classify them in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Such derivatives include basic swaps and options and credit default swaps.      Derivatives
valued using models with significant unobservable market parameters in markets that lack two-way flow, are classified in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples include long-dated interest rate or currency swaps and options, where parameters
may be unobservable for longer maturities; and certain products, where correlation rates are unobservable. The fair value of these derivatives compose less than 1% of our derivative financial

BNY
Mellon     141   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

instruments. Additional disclosures of derivative instruments are provided in Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.       Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments       Where quoted market prices are not
available, we generally base the fair value of loans and unfunded lending-related commitments on observable market prices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics. If observable market prices
are not available, we base the fair value on estimated cash flows adjusted for credit risk which are discounted using an interest rate appropriate for the maturity of the applicable loans or the unfunded lending-related commitments.   
  Unrealized gains and losses on unfunded lending-related commitments carried at fair value are classified in Other assets and Other liabilities,
respectively. Loans and unfunded lending-related commitments carried at fair value are generally classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.       Seed capital       In our Investment Management business we manage investment assets, including
equities, fixed income, money market and alternative investment funds for institutions and other investors; as part of that activity we make seed capital investments in certain funds. Seed capital is included in other assets. When applicable, we
value seed capital based on the published NAV of the fund. We include funds in which ownership interests in the fund are publicly traded in an active market and institutional funds in which investors trade in and out daily in Level 1 of the
valuation hierarchy. We include open-end funds where investors are allowed to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than daily and where our interest in the fund contains no other rights or obligations in Level 2 of the
valuation hierarchy. However, we generally include investments in funds that allow investors to sell their ownership interest back to the fund less frequently than monthly in Level 3, unless actual redemption prices are observable.   
  For other types of investments in funds, we consider all of the rights and obligations inherent in our ownership interest, including the reported NAV as
well as other factors that affect the fair value of our interest in the fund. To the extent the NAV measurements reported for the investments are based on unobservable inputs or include other rights and

obligations (e.g., obligation to meet cash calls), we generally classify them in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.       Certain interests in securitizations       For certain interests in securitizations which are
classified in securities available-for-sale, trading assets and long-term debt, we use discounted cash flow models which generally include assumptions of projected finance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses,
prepayment assumptions and estimates of payments to third-party investors. When available, we compare our fair value estimates and assumptions to market activity and to the actual results of the securitized portfolio.   
   Private equity investments       Our Other
segment includes holdings of nonpublic private equity investment through funds managed by third-party investment managers. We value private equity investments initially based upon the transaction price, which we subsequently adjust to reflect
expected exit values as evidenced by financing and sale transactions with third parties or through ongoing reviews by the investment managers.   
  Private equity investments also include publicly held equity investments, generally obtained through the initial public offering of privately held equity
investments. These equity investments are often held in a partnership structure. Publicly held investments are marked-to-market at the quoted public value less adjustments for regulatory or contractual sales restrictions or adjustments to reflect
the difficulty in selling a partnership interest.      Discounts for restrictions are quantified by analyzing the length of the restriction period
and the volatility of the equity security. Publicly held private equity investments are primarily classified in Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.      The following tables present the financial instruments carried at fair value at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, by caption on the consolidated balance sheet and by ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described
above). We have included credit ratings information in certain of the tables because the information indicates the degree of credit risk to which we are exposed, and significant changes in ratings classifications could result in increased risk for
us. There were no material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2011.   

142     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash
collateral.      

(b)   
   Includes certain interests in securitizations.      

(c)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      

(d)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets and certain interests in securitizations.      

(e)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital, a brokerage account, and derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      

(f)   
   Includes the fair value adjustment for certain unfunded lending-related commitments and derivatives in designated hedging relationships and support agreements.

(g)   
   Netting cannot be disaggregated by product.      
         BNY
Mellon     143   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   ASC 815 permits the netting of derivative receivables and derivative payables under legally enforceable master netting agreements and permits the netting of cash
collateral.      

(b)   
   Includes certain interests in securitizations.      

(c)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      

(d)   
   Includes loans classified as trading assets and certain interests in securitizations.      

(e)   
   Includes private equity investments, seed capital and derivatives in designated hedging relationships.      

(f)   
   Includes the fair value adjustment for certain unfunded lending-related commitments and derivatives in designated hedging relationships and support agreements.

(g)   
   Netting cannot be disaggregated by product.      
      
  144     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   At Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, the German foreign covered bonds were considered Level 1 in the valuation hierarchy. All other assets in the table above are
primarily Level 2 assets in the valuation hierarchy.      

(b)   
   Previously included in the Grantor Trust.      
         BNY
Mellon     145   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements       The tables below include a roll forward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010 (including the change in fair value), for financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the
valuation hierarchy.      Our classification of a financial instrument in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is based on the significance of the
unobservable factors to the overall fair value measurement. However, these instruments generally

include other observable components that are actively quoted or validated to third-party sources; accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due to
observable parameters as well as the unobservable parameters in our valuation methodologies. We also frequently manage the risks of Level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivatives positions that are Level 1 or 2 instruments which are
not included in the table; accordingly, the gains or losses below do not reflect the effect of our risk management activities related to the Level 3 instruments.

(a)   
   Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) except for
the credit portion of OTTI losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(c)   
   Reported in investment income.          

(a)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(b)   
   Reported in other revenue.      
      
  146     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

(a)   
   Realized gains (losses) are reported in securities gains (losses). Unrealized gains (losses) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss except for other
than temporary impairment losses which are recorded in securities gains (losses).      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(c)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue, except for derivatives in designated hedging relationships which are recorded in interest revenue and
interest expense.      

(d)   
   Primarily relates to investments consolidated in accordance with ASC 810.      

(a)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue.      

(b)   
   Reported in foreign exchange and other trading revenue, except for derivatives in designated hedging relationships which are recorded in interest revenue and
interest expense.      
         BNY
Mellon     147   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis    
  Under certain circumstances, we make adjustments to fair value our assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments although they are not
measured at fair value on an ongoing basis. An example would be the recording of an impairment of an asset.

The following table presents the financial instruments carried on the consolidated balance sheet by caption
and by level in the fair value hierarchy as of Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the years ended Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010.

(a)   
   During the years ended Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of these loans was reduced $32 million and $15 million, based on the fair value of the underlying
collateral as allowed by ASC 310, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a loan, with an offset to the allowance for credit losses.      

(b)   
   Includes other assets received in satisfaction of debt and loans held for sale. Loans held for sale are carried on the balance sheet at the lower of cost or market
value.      

Note 23 Fair value option    
   ASC 825 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities,
unrecognized firm commitments and written loan commitments.   
 
   The following table presents the assets and liabilities, by type, of consolidated investment management
funds recorded at fair value.       
    BNY Mellon values assets in consolidated CLOs using observable market prices observed from the secondary loan market. The
returns to the note holders are solely dependent on the assets and accordingly equal the value of those assets. Accordingly, mark-to-market best reflects the limited interest BNY

148     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Mellon has in the economic performance of the consolidated CLOs. Changes in the values of assets and liabilities are reflected in the income statement as investment income of consolidated
investment management funds.      We have elected the fair value option on $240 million of long-term debt in connection with ASC 810. At Dec. 31,
2011, the fair value of this long-term debt was $326 million. The long-term debt is valued using observable market inputs and is included in Level 2 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.      The following table presents the changes in fair value of the long-term debt included in foreign exchange and other trading revenue in the consolidated income statement.   

(a)   
   The change in fair value of the long-term debt is approximately offset by an economic hedge included in trading.      
  We have elected the fair value option on $120 million of unfunded lending-related commitments. The fair market value of unfunded lending-related
commitments for which the fair value option was elected was a liability of less than $1 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010 and is included in other liabilities. Unfunded lending-related commitments are valued using quotes from dealers in the
loan markets, and are included in Level 3 of the ASC 820 hierarchy.   
      Note 24 Commitments and contingent liabilities    
   In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding which are not reflected in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.      Our significant trading and off-balance sheet risks are securities, foreign currency and interest
rate risk management products, commercial lending commitments, letters of credit, securities lending indemnifications and support agreements. We assume these risks to reduce interest rate and foreign currency risks, to provide customers with the
ability to meet credit and liquidity needs and to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risks. These items involve, to varying degrees, credit, foreign exchange, and

interest rate risk not recognized in the balance sheet. Our off-balance sheet risks are managed and monitored in manners similar to those used for on-balance sheet risks. Significant industry
concentrations related to credit exposure at Dec. 31, 2011 are disclosed in the Financial institutions portfolio exposure table and the Commercial portfolio exposure table below.   

Major concentrations in securities lending are primarily to broker-dealers and are generally collateralized with cash.
Securities lending transactions are discussed below.      The following table presents a summary of our off-balance sheet credit risks, net of
participations.       

Included in lending commitments are facilities that provide liquidity for variable rate tax-exempt securities wrapped by monoline insurers. The credit
approval for these facilities is based on an assessment of the underlying tax-exempt issuer and considers factors other than the financial strength of the monoline insurer.

BNY
Mellon     149   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

The total potential loss on undrawn lending commitments, standby and commercial letters of credit, and
securities lending indemnifications is equal to the total notional amount if drawn upon, which does not consider the value of any collateral.   
  Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total amount does not necessarily represent future cash requirements.
A summary of lending commitment maturities is as follows: $9.9 billion less than one year, $18.3 billion in one to five years and $0.2 billion over five years.      Standby letters of credit ( SBLC ) principally support corporate obligations. As shown in the off-balance sheet credit risks table, the maximum potential exposure of SBLCs was $6.7 billion at
Dec. 31, 2011 and $8.5 billion at Dec. 31, 2010, and includes $485 million and $628 million that were collateralized with cash and securities at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At Dec. 31, 2011, $2.2 billion of the SBLCs will expire within one
year, $4.3 billion in one to five years and $0.2 billion over five years.      We must recognize, at the inception of standby letters of credit
and foreign and other guarantees, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. As required by ASC 460    Guarantees , the fair value of the liability, which was recorded with a corresponding asset
in other assets, was estimated as the present value of contractual customer fees.      The estimated liability for losses related to these
commitments and SBLCs, if any, is included in the allowance for lending-related commitments. The allowance for lending-related commitments was $103 million at Dec. 31, 2011 and $73 million at Dec. 31, 2010.   
  Payment/performance risk of SBLCs is monitored using both historical performance and internal ratings criteria. BNY Mellon s historical experience
is that SBLCs typically expire without being funded. SBLCs below investment grade are monitored closely for payment/performance risk. The table below shows SBLCs by investment grade:   

A commercial letter of credit is normally a short-term instrument used to finance a commercial contract for
the shipment of goods from a seller to a buyer. Although the commercial letter of credit is contingent upon the satisfaction of specified conditions, it represents a credit exposure if the buyer defaults on the underlying transaction. As a result,
the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Commercial letters of credit totaled $437 million at Dec. 31, 2011 compared with $512 million at Dec. 31, 2010.   
  A securities lending transaction is a fully collateralized transaction in which the owner of a security agrees to lend the security (typically through an
agent, in our case, The Bank of New York Mellon), to a borrower, usually a broker-dealer or bank, on an open, overnight or term basis, under the terms of a prearranged contract, which normally matures in less than 90 days.   
  We typically lend securities with indemnification against borrower default. We generally require the borrower to provide cash collateral with a value of
102% of the fair value of the securities borrowed, which is monitored on a daily basis, thus reducing credit risk. Market risk can also arise in securities lending transactions. These risks are controlled through policies limiting the level of risk
that can be undertaken. Securities lending transactions are generally entered into only with highly rated counterparties. Securities lending indemnifications were secured by collateral of $276 billion at Dec. 31, 2011 and $285 billion at Dec. 31,
2010. We recorded $183 million of fee revenue from securities lending transactions in 2011 compared with $150 million in 2010.      We expect
many of these guarantees to expire without the need to advance any cash. The revenue associated with guarantees frequently depends on the credit rating of the obligor and the structure of the transaction, including collateral, if any.   
  At Dec. 31, 2011, our potential maximum exposure to support agreements was $63 million, after deducting the reserve, assuming the securities subject to
these agreements being valued at zero and the NAV of the related funds declining below established thresholds. This compares with $116 million at Dec. 31, 2010.       Trust activities       As a result of the GIS acquisition, at Dec. 31, 2011, our clients
maintained approximately $400 million of   

150     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

custody cash on deposit with other institutions. Revenue generated from these balances is included in other revenue on the income statement. These deposits are expected to transition to BNY
Mellon by mid-2012.       Operating leases       Net rent expense for premises and equipment was $350 million in 2011, $314 million in 2010 and $327 million in 2009.      At Dec. 31, 2011, we were obligated under various noncancelable lease agreements, some of which provide for additional rents based upon real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance and for various renewal
options. A summary of the future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases, net of related sublease revenue, is as follows: 2012 $318 million; 2013 $306 million; 2014 $249 million; and 2015 $205 million;
2016 $189 million; and 2017 through 2031 $798 million.       Indemnification Arrangements under Ordinary Course Contracts
      We have provided standard representations for underwriting agreements, acquisition and divestiture agreements, sales of loans and
commitments, and other similar types of arrangements and customary indemnification for claims and legal proceedings related to providing financial services that are not otherwise included above. Insurance has been purchased to mitigate certain of
these risks. Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in these indemnifications and the contingencies triggering the obligation for indemnification are not expected to occur. Furthermore often counterparties to these transactions
provide us with comparable indemnifications. We are unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these indemnifications for several reasons. In addition to the lack of a stated or notional amount in a majority of such indemnifications,
we are unable to predict the nature of events that would trigger indemnification or the level of indemnification for a certain event. We believe, however, that the possibility that we will have to make any material payments for these
indemnifications is remote. At Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, we have not recorded any material liabilities under these arrangements.   
   Clearing and Settlement Exchanges       We
are a minority equity investor in, and member of, several industry clearing or settlement exchanges

through which foreign exchange, securities, or other transactions settle. Certain of these industry clearing or settlement exchanges require their members to guarantee their obligations and
liabilities or to provide financial support in the event other members do not honor their obligations. We believe the likelihood that a clearing or settlement exchange (of which we are a member) would become insolvent is remote. Additionally,
certain settlement exchanges have implemented loss allocation policies which enable the exchange to allocate settlement losses to the members of the exchange. It is not possible to quantify such mark-to-market loss until the loss occurs. In
addition, any ancillary costs that occur as a result of any mark-to-market loss cannot be quantified. At Dec. 31, 2011 and Dec. 31, 2010, we have not recorded any material liabilities under these arrangements.   
   Legal proceedings       In the ordinary
course of business, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are routinely named as defendants in or made parties to pending and potential legal actions and regulatory matters. Claims for significant monetary damages are often asserted in many of these legal
actions, while claims for disgorgement, penalties and/or other remedial sanctions may be sought in regulatory matters. It is inherently difficult to predict the eventual outcomes of such matters given their complexity and the particular facts and
circumstances at issue in each of these matters. However, on the basis of our current knowledge and understanding, we do not believe that judgments or settlements, if any, arising from these matters (either individually or in the aggregate, after
giving effect to applicable reserves and insurance coverage), will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of BNY Mellon, although they could have a material effect on net income in a given period.
     In view of the inherent unpredictability of outcomes in litigation and regulatory matters, particularly where (i) the damages sought are
substantial or indeterminate, (ii) the proceedings are in the early stages, or (iii) the matters involve novel legal theories or a large number of parties, as a matter of course there is considerable uncertainty surrounding the timing or
ultimate resolution of litigation and regulatory matters, including a possible eventual loss, fine, penalty or business impact, if any, associated with each such matter. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, BNY Mellon establishes
reserves for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters proceed to a stage where they present loss contingencies that are both probable and

BNY
Mellon     151   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

reasonably estimable. In such cases, there may be a possible exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. BNY Mellon will continue to monitor such matters for developments that could affect
the amount of the reserve, and will adjust the reserve amount as appropriate. If the loss contingency in question is not both probable and reasonably estimable, BNY Mellon does not establish a reserve and the matter will continue to be monitored for
any developments that would make the loss contingency both probable and reasonably estimable. BNY Mellon believes that its accruals for legal proceedings are appropriate and, in the aggregate, are not material to the consolidated financial position
of BNY Mellon, although future accruals could have a material effect on net income in a given period.      For certain of those matters described
herein for which a loss contingency may, in the future, be reasonably possible (whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability), BNY Mellon is currently unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss.
For those matters where BNY Mellon is able to estimate a reasonably possible loss, exclusive of matters described in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, subject to the accounting and reporting requirements of ASC 740 (FASB
Interpretation 48), the aggregate range of such reasonably possible loss is up to $1.05 billion in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters.      The following describes certain judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings involving BNY Mellon:       Sentinel Matters       As previously disclosed, on Jan. 18, 2008, The Bank of New York Mellon
filed a proof of claim in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding of Sentinel Management Group, Inc. ( Sentinel ) pending in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois, seeking to recover approximately $312 million loaned to Sentinel
and secured by securities and cash in an account maintained by Sentinel at The Bank of New York Mellon. On March 3, 2008, the bankruptcy trustee filed an adversary complaint against The Bank of New York Mellon seeking to disallow The Bank of
New York Mellon s claim and seeking damages for allegedly aiding and abetting Sentinel insiders in misappropriating customer assets and improperly using those assets as collateral for the loan. In a decision dated Nov. 3, 2010, the court found
for The Bank of New York Mellon and against the bankruptcy trustee, holding that The Bank of New York Mellon s loan to Sentinel is valid, fully secured and not subject

to equitable subordination. The bankruptcy trustee appealed this decision on Dec. 1, 2010.      As previously disclosed, in November 2009, the Division of Enforcement of the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) indicated that it is considering a recommendation to the CFTC
that it file a civil enforcement action against The Bank of New York Mellon for possible violations of the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulations in connection with its relationship to Sentinel. The Bank of New York Mellon responded in writing
to the CFTC on Jan. 29, 2010 and provided an explanation as to why an enforcement action is unwarranted.       Auction Rate Securities Matters
      As previously disclosed, in April 2008, BNY Mellon notified the SEC that Mellon Financial Markets LLC ( MFM ) placed orders on
behalf of certain issuers to purchase their own Auction Rate Securities ( ARS ). In approximately October 2008, the Texas State Securities Board, Florida Office of Financial Regulation and the New York State Attorney General (the
 regulators ) began an investigation focused on whether and to what extent the issuers  orders had the effect of reducing the clearing rate and preventing failed auctions. MFM reached a settlement with the regulators in December 2011
pursuant to which the regulators discontinued the investigation.      As previously disclosed, in February and April 2009, two institutional
customers filed lawsuits in Texas state District Court for Dallas County, and California state Superior Court for Orange County, alleging misrepresentations and omissions in the sale of ARS. Two more institutional customers filed arbitration
proceedings in December 2008 and May 2011. The Texas lawsuit was resolved and dismissed on April 8, 2011. The earlier-filed arbitration proceeding was dismissed on Aug. 1, 2011. The remaining disputes together seek rescission or damages
relating to approximately $67 million of ARS, plus interest and attorneys  fees.       Securities Lending Matters    
  As previously disclosed, BNY Mellon or its affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits initiated by participants in BNY Mellon s
securities lending program, which is a part of BNY Mellon s Investment Services business. The lawsuits were filed on various dates from December 2008 to 2011, and are currently pending in courts in Oklahoma, New York, Washington, California and
South Carolina and in commercial court in London. The complaints assert contractual, statutory, and

152     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

common law claims, including claims for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. The plaintiffs allege losses in connection with the investment of securities lending collateral, including losses
related to investments in Sigma Finance Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and certain asset-backed securities, and seek damages as to those losses. Three of the pending cases seek to proceed as class actions.   
   Matters Relating To Bernard L. Madoff    
  As previously disclosed, on May 11, 2010, the New York State Attorney General commenced a civil lawsuit against Ivy Asset Management LLC
( Ivy ), a subsidiary of BNY Mellon that manages primarily funds-of-hedge-funds, and two of its former officers in New York state court. The lawsuit alleges that Ivy, in connection with its role as sub-advisor to investment managers whose
clients invested with Madoff, did not disclose certain material facts about Madoff. The complaint seeks an accounting of compensation received from January 1997 to the present by the Ivy defendants in connection with the Madoff investments, and
unspecified damages, including restitution, disgorgement, costs and attorneys  fees.      As previously disclosed, on Oct. 21, 2010, the U.S.
Department of Labor commenced a civil lawsuit against Ivy, two of its former officers, and others in federal court in the Southern District of New York. The lawsuit alleges that Ivy violated the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
( ERISA ) by failing to disclose certain material facts about Madoff to investment managers subadvised by Ivy whose clients included employee benefit plan investors. The complaint seeks disgorgement and damages. On Dec. 8, 2010, the
Trustee overseeing the Madoff liquidation sued many of the same defendants in bankruptcy court in New York, seeking to avoid withdrawals from Madoff investments made by various funds-of-funds (including six funds-of-funds managed by Ivy).
     As previously disclosed, Ivy or its affiliates have been named in a number of civil lawsuits filed beginning Jan. 27, 2009 relating to
certain investment funds that allege losses due to the Madoff investments. Ivy acted as a sub-advisor to the investment managers of some of those funds. Plaintiffs assert various causes of action including securities and common-law fraud. Certain of
the cases seek to proceed as class actions and/or to assert derivative claims on behalf of the funds. Most of the cases have been consolidated in two actions in federal court in the Southern District of New York, with certain cases filed in New York
State Supreme Court for New York and Nassau counties.   
 
    Medical Capital Litigations       As previously disclosed, The Bank of New York Mellon has been named as a defendant in a number of class actions and non-class actions brought by numerous plaintiffs in connection with its role as
indenture trustee for debt issued by affiliates of Medical Capital Corporation. The actions, filed in late 2009 and currently pending in federal court in the Central District of California, allege that The Bank of New York Mellon breached its
fiduciary and contractual obligations to the holders of the underlying securities, and seek unspecified damages.       Foreign Exchange Matters
      As previously disclosed, beginning in December 2009, government authorities have been conducting inquiries seeking information relating
primarily to standing instruction foreign exchange transactions in connection with custody services BNY Mellon provides to public pension plans and certain other custody clients. BNY Mellon is cooperating with these inquiries.   
  In addition, in early 2011, as previously disclosed, the Virginia Attorney General s Office and the Florida Attorney General s Office each
filed a Notice of Intervention in a  qui tam  lawsuit pending in its jurisdiction. These offices filed complaints superseding the  qui tam  lawsuits on Aug. 11, 2011. On Oct. 4, 2011, the New York Attorney General s Office, the New
York City Comptroller and various city pension and benefit funds filed a lawsuit whereby, among other things, the plaintiffs assert claims under the Martin Act and state and city false claims acts. Also, on Oct. 4, 2011, the United States Department
of Justice ( DOJ ) filed a civil lawsuit seeking civil penalties under 12 U.S.C. Section 1833a and injunctive relief under 18 U.S.C. Section 1345 based on alleged ongoing violations of 18 U.S.C. Sections 1341 and 1343 (mail and
wire fraud). On Jan. 17, 2012, the court approved a partial settlement resolving the DOJ s claim for injunctive relief. In October 2011, several political subdivisions of the state of California intervened in a  qui tam  lawsuit pending in
California state court, previously under seal, and, on Nov. 28, 2011, BNY Mellon removed the lawsuit to federal district court in California. On Oct. 26, 2011, the Massachusetts Securities Division filed an Administrative Complaint against BNY
Mellon.      BNY Mellon has also been named as a defendant in several putative class action lawsuits filed on various dates in 2011 in federal
district courts in Pennsylvania, California, and New York. The   

BNY
Mellon     153   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

complaints, which assert varying claims, including breach of contract, and violations of ERISA, state and federal law, all allege that the prices BNY Mellon charged and reported for standing
instruction foreign exchange transactions executed in connection with custody services provided by BNY Mellon were improper. In addition, BNY Mellon has been named as a nominal defendant in several derivative lawsuits filed on various dates in 2011
and 2012 in New York state court and federal district court in New York.       German Broker-Dealer Litigation    
  As previously disclosed, on various dates from 2004 to 2011, BNY Mellon subsidiary Pershing LLC ( Pershing ) was named as a
defendant in more than 100 lawsuits filed in Germany by plaintiffs who are investors with accounts at German broker-dealers. The plaintiffs allege that Pershing, which had a contractual relationship with the broker-dealers through which the
broker-dealers executed options transactions on behalf of the broker-dealers  clients, should be held liable for the tortious acts of the broker-dealers. Plaintiffs seek to recover their investment losses, interest, and statutory
attorney s fees and costs. On March 9, 2010, the 11   th    Senate of the German Federal Supreme Court ruled in the plaintiff s favor in one of these cases, and held Pershing liable for a German broker-dealer s tortious acts. In subsequent cases, the
Supreme Court continued to rule in the plaintiffs  favor. In December 2011, Pershing settled the majority of the cases.       Lyondell
Litigation       As previously disclosed, in an action filed in New York State Supreme Court for New York County, on Sept. 14, 2010, plaintiffs
as holders of debt issued by Basell AF in 2005 allege that The Bank of New York Mellon, as indenture trustee, breached its contractual and fiduciary obligations by executing an intercreditor agreement in 2007 in connection with Basell s
acquisition of Lyondell Chemical Company. Plaintiffs are seeking damages for their alleged losses resulting from the execution of the 2007 intercreditor agreement that allowed the company to increase the amount of its senior debt.   
   Tax Litigation       As previously disclosed,
on Aug. 17, 2009, BNY Mellon received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency disallowing tax benefits for the 2001 and 2002 tax years in connection with a 2001 transaction that involved the payment of U.K. corporate income taxes that were credited against
BNY Mellon s U.S. corporate income tax liability. On Nov. 10, 2009, BNY Mellon filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court

contesting the disallowance of the benefits. A trial is currently scheduled for April 16, 2012. The aggregate tax benefit for all six years in question is approximately $900 million,
including interest. In the event BNY Mellon is unsuccessful in defending its position, the IRS has agreed not to assess underpayment penalties. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.   
   Mortgage-Securitization Trusts Proceeding    
  The Bank of New York Mellon as trustee is the petitioner in a legal proceeding filed in New York State Supreme Court, New York County on June 29,
2011, seeking approval of a proposed settlement involving Bank of America Corporation and bondholders in certain Countrywide residential mortgage-securitization trusts. The New York Attorney General has sought permission to intervene in this
proceeding and to assert claims against BNY Mellon under the Martin Act and the Executive Law. On Aug. 26, 2011, an investor that had intervened in the state court proceeding removed this case to the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York. BNY Mellon sought to remand the case to state court and on Oct. 19, 2011, the District Court denied BNY Mellon s motion. On Jan. 17, 2012, BNY Mellon filed its brief appealing the District Court s decision to the
Second Circuit Court of Appeals.   
      Note 25 Derivative instruments    
   We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk. Our trading
activities are focused on acting as a market-maker for our customers and facilitating customer trades. In addition, we periodically manage positions for our own account. Positions managed for our own account are immaterial to our overall foreign
exchange and other trading revenue and to our overall results of operations.      The notional amounts for derivative financial instruments
express the dollar volume of the transactions; however, credit risk is much smaller. We perform credit reviews and enter into netting agreements to minimize the credit risk of derivative financial instruments. We enter into offsetting positions to
reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.      Use of derivative financial instruments involves reliance on counterparties.
Failure of a counterparty to honor its obligation under a derivative contract is a risk we assume whenever we engage in a derivative

154     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

contract. Counterparty default losses were $15 million in 2011 and $39 million in 2010. Reserves for losses incurred in both 2011 and 2010 were established in prior years. As a result, these
counterparty default losses did not impact income in either year.       Hedging derivatives    
  We utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. For hedges of investment securities available-for-sale,
deposits and long-term debt, the hedge documentation specifies the terms of the hedged items and the interest rate swaps and indicates that the derivative is hedging a fixed-rate item and is a fair value hedge, that the hedge exposure is to the
changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in benchmark interest rates, and that the strategy is to eliminate fair value variability by converting fixed-rate interest payments to LIBOR.   
  The securities hedged consist of sovereign debt and U.S. Treasury bonds that had original maturities of 30 years or less at initial purchase. The swaps
on the sovereign debt and U.S. Treasury bonds are not callable. All of these securities are hedged with  pay fixed rate, receive variable rate  swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. At Dec. 31, 2011, $4 billion of
securities were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $4 billion.      The fixed rate deposits hedged generally have
original maturities of three to six years and are not callable. These deposits are hedged with  receive fixed rate, pay variable  rate swaps of similar maturity, repricing and fixed rate coupon. The swaps are not callable. At Dec. 31,
2011, $10 million of deposits were hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $10 million.      The fixed rate long-term debts
hedged generally have original maturities of five to 30 years. We issue both callable and non-callable debt. The non-callable debt is hedged with simple interest rate swaps similar to those described for deposits. Callable debt is hedged with
callable swaps where the call dates of the swaps exactly match the call dates of the debt. At Dec. 31, 2011, $14.3 billion of debt was hedged with interest rate swaps that had notional values of $14.3 billion.   
  In addition, we enter into foreign exchange hedges. We use forward foreign exchange contracts with maturities of nine months or less to hedge our British
Pound, Euro and Indian Rupee foreign exchange

exposure with respect to foreign currency forecasted revenue and expense transactions in entities that have the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the hedged
forecasted foreign currency transactions and designated forward foreign exchange contract hedges were $136.1 million (notional), with $0.4 million of pre-tax gain recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. This gain will be reclassified to
income or expense over the next nine months.      We use forward foreign exchange contracts with remaining maturities of one year or less as
hedges against our foreign exchange exposure to Euro, Norwegian Krona, British Pound, Swiss Franc and Japanese Yen with respect to interest-bearing deposits with banks and their associated forecasted interest revenue. These hedges are designated as
cash flow hedges. These hedges are affected such that their maturities and notional values match those of the deposits with banks. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the hedged interest-bearing deposits with banks and their designated forward foreign exchange
contract hedges were $8.8 billion (notional), with $3.0 million of pre-tax loss recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. This loss will be reclassified to net interest revenue over the next twelve months.   
  Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge the value of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. These forward foreign exchange
contracts usually have maturities of less than two years. The derivatives employed are designated as hedges of changes in value of our foreign investments due to exchange rates. Changes in the value of the forward foreign exchange contracts offset
the changes in value of the foreign investments due to changes in foreign exchange rates. The change in fair market value of these forward foreign exchange contracts is deferred and reported within accumulated translation adjustments in
shareholders  equity, net of tax. At Dec. 31, 2011, forward foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $5.2 billion were designated as hedges.      In addition to forward foreign exchange contracts, we also designate non-derivative financial instruments as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Those non-derivative financial
instruments designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign subsidiaries were all long-term liabilities of BNY Mellon in various currencies, and, at Dec. 31, 2011, had a combined U.S. dollar equivalent value of $495 million.

BNY
Mellon     155   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           
     
       Ineffectiveness related to derivatives and hedging relationships was recorded in income as
follows:       

(a)   
   Includes ineffectiveness recorded on foreign exchange hedges.          
  The following table summarizes the notional amount and credit exposure of our total derivative portfolio at Dec. 31, 2011 and 2010.   

(b)   
   The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives designated as hedging instruments is recorded as other assets and other liabilities, respectively, on
the balance sheet.      

(c)   
   The fair value of asset derivatives and liability derivatives not designated as hedging instruments is recorded as trading assets and trading liabilities,
respectively, on the balance sheet.      

(d)   
   Fair values are on a gross basis, before consideration of master netting agreements, as required by ASC 815.      

At Dec. 31, 2011, $336 billion (notional) of interest rate contracts will mature within one year, $391
billion between one and five years, and $267 billion after five years. At Dec. 31, 2011, $376 billion

(notional) of foreign exchange contracts will mature within one year, $9 billion between one and five years, and $8 billion after five years.

156     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Derivatives in net  
  investment hedging  
  relationships   
     
    Amount of gain or
(loss) recognized in accumulated OCI on derivatives (effective portion)  
  Year ended Dec. 31,   

Location of gain or  
  (loss) reclassified  
  from accumulated  
  OCI into income  
  (effective portion)   
      
    Amount of gain or (loss)
reclassified from accumulated OCI into income (effective portion)     Year ended Dec. 31,   

Location of gain or  
  (loss) recognized in     income on derivative     (ineffective portion and  
  amount excluded from  
  effectiveness testing)   
      
    Amount of gain or (loss) recognized
in income on derivatives (ineffectiveness portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)     Year ended
Dec. 31,   

2011   

2010  

2009  

2011   

2010  

2009  

2011   

2010  

2009  

FX contracts   
     
   $   
   75   

$  
  (52  
  )   
     
  $  
  (298  
  )   
      
  Net interest revenue  
      
   $   
   -   

$  
  -  

$  
  -  

Other revenue  
      
   $   
   (0.1   
   )    
      
  $  
  (0.2  
  )   
      
  $  
  0.1  

Trading activities (including trading derivatives)    
  We manage trading risk through a system of position limits, a VaR methodology based on Monte Carlo simulations, stop loss advisory triggers, and other
market sensitivity measures. Risk is monitored and reported to senior management by a separate unit on a daily basis. Based on certain assumptions, the VaR methodology is designed to capture the potential overnight pre-tax dollar loss from adverse
changes in fair values of all trading positions. The calculation assumes a one-day holding period for most instruments, utilizes a 99% confidence level, and incorporates the non-linear characteristics of options. The VaR model is one of several
statistical models used to develop economic capital results, which is allocated to lines of business for computing risk-adjusted performance.   
  As the VaR methodology does not evaluate risk attributable to extraordinary financial, economic or other occurrences, the risk assessment process
includes a number of stress scenarios based upon the risk factors in the portfolio and management s assessment of market conditions. Additional stress scenarios based upon historic market events are also performed. Stress tests, by their
design, incorporate the impact of reduced liquidity and the breakdown of observed correlations. The results of these stress tests are reviewed weekly with senior management.

Revenue from foreign exchange and other trading included the following:   

(a)   
   Used as economic hedges of loans.      
  Foreign exchange includes income from purchasing and selling foreign currencies and currency forwards, futures, and options. Fixed income reflects
results from futures and forward contracts, interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, options, and fixed income securities. Credit derivatives include revenue from credit default swaps. Other primarily includes income from equity securities and
equity derivatives.       Counterparty credit risk and collateral       We assess credit risk of our counterparties through regular examination of their financial statements, confidential communication with the management of those counterparties and regular monitoring of
publicly available credit rating information. This and other information is used to develop proprietary credit rating metrics used to assess credit quality.

BNY
Mellon     157   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Collateral requirements are determined after a comprehensive review of the credit quality of each
counterparty. Collateral is generally held or pledged in the form of cash or highly liquid government securities. Collateral requirements are monitored and adjusted daily.      Additional disclosures concerning derivative financial instruments are provided in Notes 21 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
   Disclosure of contingent features in over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivative instruments    
  Certain OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral agreements of The Bank of New York Mellon, our largest banking subsidiary and the subsidiary through
which BNY Mellon enters into the substantial majority of all of its OTC derivative contracts and/or collateral agreements, contain provisions that may require us to take certain actions if The Bank of New York Mellon s public debt rating fell
to a certain level. Early termination provisions, or  close-out  agreements, in those contracts could trigger immediate payment of outstanding contracts that are in net liability positions. Certain collateral agreements would require The
Bank of New York Mellon to immediately post additional collateral to cover some or all of The Bank of New York Mellon s liabilities to a counterparty.      The following table shows the fair value of contracts falling under early termination provisions that were in net liability positions as of Dec. 31, 2011 for three key ratings triggers:   

If The Bank of New York   
   Mellon s rating was changed       to
(Moody s/S P)    
      
   Potential close-out exposures (fair value) 
  (a)     

A3/A-   
      
  $  
   936 million  

Baa2/BBB   
      
  $  
  1,129 million  

Bal/BB+   
      
  $  
  1,803 million  

(a)   
   The change between rating categories is incremental, not cumulative.         Additionally, if The Bank of New York Mellon s debt rating had fallen below investment grade on Dec. 31, 2011, existing collateral arrangements would have required us to have posted an additional
$498 million of collateral.   
      Note 26 Review of businesses    
   We have an internal information system that produces performance data for our two principal businesses and

the Other segment. The following discussion of our businesses satisfies the disclosure requirements for ASC 280,  Segment Reporting .   
   Organization of our business       In the
first quarter of 2011, BNY Mellon realigned its internal reporting structure and business presentation to focus on its two principal businesses, Investment Management and Investment Services. The realignment reflects management s current
approach to assessing performance and decisions regarding resource allocations. Investment Management includes the former Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses. Investment Services includes the former Asset Servicing, Issuer Services and
Clearing Services businesses, and the Cash Management business previously included in the Treasury Services business. The Other segment includes credit-related activities previously included in the Treasury Services business, the lease financing
portfolio, corporate treasury activities, including our investment securities portfolio, our equity investments in Wing Hang Bank and ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead. All prior periods presented in this Annual Report are
presented accordingly.      Also in the first quarter of 2011, we revised the net interest revenue for our businesses to reflect a new approach
which adjusts our transfer pricing methodology to better reflect the value of certain domestic deposits. All prior period business results were restated to reflect this revision. This revision did not impact the consolidated results.   
   Business accounting principles       Our
business data has been determined on an internal management basis of accounting, rather than the generally accepted accounting principles used for consolidated financial reporting. These measurement principles are designed so that reported results
of the businesses will track their economic performance.      Business results are subject to reclassification whenever improvements are made in
the measurement principles, or when organizational changes are made.      The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those
described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.      The operations of acquired businesses are integrated with the existing
businesses soon after they are completed. As a result of the integration of staff support functions, management of customer relationships, operating processes and the financial

158     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

impact of funding acquisitions, we cannot precisely determine the impact of acquisitions on income before taxes and therefore do not report it.   
  Information on our businesses is reported on a continuing operations basis for 2010 and 2009. See

Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of discontinued operations.

The primary types of revenue for two
principal businesses and the Other segment are presented below:       

Business   
      
   Primary types of revenue    

Investment Management   
      
             Investment management and performance fees
from:     Mutual funds  
  Institutional clients  
  Private clients     High-net-worth individuals and families, endowments and foundations and related entities              Distribution and servicing
fees    

Investment Services   

Asset servicing fees, including institutional trust and custody fees, broker-dealer services and securities lending  
           Issuer services fees, including Corporate Trust, Depositary Receipts, employee investment plan services and Shareowner Services  
           Clearing services fees, including broker-dealer services, registered investment advisor services and prime brokerage services  
           Treasury services fees, including global payment services and working capital solutions  
           Foreign exchange    

Other segment   

Credit-related activities              Leasing operations  
           Corporate treasury activities  
           Global markets and institutional banking services              Business exits    

The results of our businesses are presented and analyzed on an internal management reporting basis:

Revenue amounts reflect fee and other revenue generated by each business. Fee and other revenue transferred between businesses under revenue transfer
agreements is included within other revenue in each business.      

Revenues and expenses associated with specific client bases are included in those businesses. For example, foreign exchange activity associated with
clients using custody products is allocated to Investment Services.      

Net interest revenue is allocated to businesses based on the yields on the assets and liabilities generated by each business. We employ a funds
transfer pricing system that matches funds with the specific assets and liabilities of each business based on their interest sensitivity and maturity characteristics.      

Support and other indirect expenses are allocated to businesses based on internally-developed methodologies.

Recurring FDIC expense is allocated to the businesses based on average deposits generated within each business.      

Litigation expense is generally recorded in the business in which the charge occurs.      

Management of the investment securities portfolio is a shared service contained in the Other segment. As a result, gains and losses associated with the
valuation of the securities portfolio are included in the Other segment.      

Client deposits serve as the primary funding source for our investment securities portfolio. We typically allocate all interest revenue to the
businesses generating the deposits.         Accordingly, the higher yield related to the restructured investment
securities portfolio has been included in the results of the businesses.   

Restructuring charges are related to corporate initiatives and are therefore recorded in the Other segment.      

M I expenses are corporate level items and are therefore recorded in the Other segment.

BNY
Mellon     159   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Balance sheet assets and liabilities and their related income or expense are specifically assigned to each business. Businesses with a net liability
position have been allocated assets.      

Goodwill and intangible assets are reflected within individual businesses.

Total revenue includes approximately $2.2 billion in 2011, $2.1 billion in 2010 and $1.6 billion in 2009,
of international operations domiciled in the UK which comprised 15%, 15% and 21% of total revenue, respectively.   

The following consolidating schedules
show the contribution of our businesses to our overall profitability.       

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $200 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $50 million, for a net
impact of $150 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $50 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.          

(a)   
   Total fee and other revenue includes income from consolidated investment management funds of $226 million, net of noncontrolling interests of $59 million, for a net
impact of $167 million. Income before taxes includes noncontrolling interests of $59 million.      

(b)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

(a)   
   Income before taxes divided by total revenue.      

160     BNY Mellon   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
   (continued)           

Note 27 International operations    
   International activity includes Investment Management and Investment Services fee revenue generating businesses, foreign exchange
trading activity, loans and other revenue producing assets and transactions in which the customer is domiciled outside of the United States and/or the international activity is resident at an international entity. Due to the nature of our
international and domestic activities, it is not possible to precisely distinguish between internationally and domestically domiciled customers.

As a result, it is necessary to make certain subjective assumptions such as:       

Income from international operations is determined after internal allocations for interest revenue, taxes, expenses, provision and allowance for credit
losses.      

Expense charges to international operations include those directly incurred in connection with such activities, as well as an allocable share of
general support and overhead charges.      

Total revenue, income before income
taxes, income from continuing operations and total assets of our international operations are shown in the table below.       

(a)   
   Total assets include long-lived assets, which are not considered by management to be significant in relation to total assets. Long-lived assets are primarily located
in the United States.      

(c)   
   Presented on a continuing operations basis.      

(d)   
   In 2009, excludes the $269 million of investment securities losses on the European floating rate notes.      

(e)   
   Domestic income from continuing operations in 2009 was reduced by investment securities losses.      
      Note 28 Supplemental information to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows    
   Noncash investing and financing transactions that, appropriately, are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are
listed below.       

BNY
Mellon     161   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
         
   The Board of Directors and Shareholders      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( BNY Mellon ) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of BNY Mellon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of BNY Mellon as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 2010, BNY Mellon
changed their methods of accounting related to the consolidation of variable interest entities.      We also have audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of BNY Mellon s internal control over financial reporting.
         /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York      February 28, 2012   
      
  162     BNY Mellon   

Directors, Executive Committee and Other Executive Officers    

Directors         Ruth E. Bruch       Retired Senior Vice President and   
  Chief Information Officer      Kellogg Company
     Cereal and convenience foods   
   Nicholas M. Donofrio       Retired Executive
Vice President, Innovation and Technology      IBM Corporation      Developer, manufacturer and provider of advanced information technologies and services       Gerald
L. Hassell       Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation       Edmund F. (Ted) Kelly    
  Chairman      Liberty Mutual Group   
  Multi-line insurance company       Richard J.
Kogan       Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      Schering-Plough Corporation      International research-based development and manufacturing
      Michael J. Kowalski    
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tiffany   Co.      International designer, manufacturer and distributor of jewelry and fine goods       John A. Luke,
Jr.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      MeadWestvaco Corporation      Manufacturer of paper, packaging and specialty chemicals   
   Mark A. Nordenberg       Chancellor and Chief
Executive Officer      University of Pittsburgh      Major public research university

Catherine A. Rein       Retired Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer      MetLife, Inc.
     Insurance and financial services company       William C. Richardson       President and Chief Executive Officer Emeritus   
  The W. K. Kellogg Foundation      Retired Chairman
and Co-Trustee of      The W. K. Kellogg Foundation Trust      Private foundation       Samuel C. Scott III    
  Retired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer      Corn Products International, Inc.      Global producers of corn-refined products and ingredients
      John P. Surma       Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer United States Steel Corporation      Steel manufacturing       Wesley W. von Schack       Chairman      AEGIS Insurance Services, Inc.      Mutual property and casualty insurance company   
    Executive Committee and Other Executive Officers         Gerald L. Hassell *       Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer   
   Curtis Y. Arledge *       Chief Executive
Officer,      Investment Management   
   Richard F. Brueckner *       Chief of Staff
      Arthur Certosimo *       Chief
Executive Officer,      Global Markets

Michael Cole-Fontayn       Chairman,      Europe, the Middle East and Africa   
   Thomas P. (Todd) Gibbons *       Chief
Financial Officer       Mitchell E. Harris       President,      Investment Management       Timothy F. Keaney *       Chief Executive Officer,   
  BNY Mellon Asset Servicing       Stephen D.
Lackey       Chairman,      Asia Pacific
      James P. Palermo *       Chief
Executive Officer,      Global Client Management and Liquidity Services       John A. Park *       Controller       Karen B. Peetz *       Chief Executive Officer,   
  Financial Markets and Treasury Services   
   Lisa B. Peters *       Chief Human Resources
Officer       Brian G. Rogan *    
  Chief Risk Officer       Brian T. Shea
      Chief Executive Officer,   
  Pershing LLC       Jane C. Sherburne *
      General Counsel       Kurt D.
Woetzel *       Head of Global Operations and Technology and Chief Administrative Officer

*  
  Designated as an Executive Officer.     
         BNY
Mellon     163   

Performance Graph    

This graph shows The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation s cumulative total shareholder returns over the five-year
period from Dec. 31, 2006 to Dec. 31, 2011. The graph reflects total shareholder returns for The Bank of New York Company, Inc. from Dec. 31, 2006 to June 29, 2007, and for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation from July 2, 2007 to Dec.
31, 2011. The last day of trading The Bank of New York Company, Inc. common stock on the NYSE was June 29, 2007 and the first day of trading The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common stock on the NYSE was July 2, 2007. We are showing
combined The Bank of New York Company, Inc.   The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation shareholder returns because The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation does not have a five-year history as a public company. Our peer group is composed of
financial services companies which provide investment management and investment servicing. We also utilize the S P 500 Financial Index as a benchmark against our performance. The graph shows the cumulative total returns for the same five-year
period of the S P 500 Financial Index, the S P 500 Index as well as our peer group listed below. The comparison assumes a $100 investment on Dec. 31, 2006 in The Bank of New York Company, Inc. common stock (which was converted on a 0.9434
for one basis into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation common stock on July 1, 2007), in the S P 500 Financial Index, in the S P 500 Index and in the peer group detailed below and assumes that all dividends were reinvested.

Peer Group*   

American Express Company  
  Bank of America Corporation  
  BlackRock, Inc.     The Charles Schwab Corporation   
      
    Citigroup Inc.     JPMorgan Chase   Co.     Northern Trust Corporation  
  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.   
      
  Prudential Financial, Inc.  
  State Street Corporation     U.S.
Bancorp     Wells Fargo   Company    

*  
  Returns are weighted by market capitalization at the beginning of the measurement period.     
      
  164     BNY Mellon   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 d260593dex211.htm
 PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Primary subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21.1        THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION        PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES
       DEC. 31, 2011       The following are primary subsidiaries of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and the states or jurisdictions in which they are organized. The names of particular
subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of December 31, 2011, a  significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of
Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.       

4101 Austin Boulevard Corp.   State of Incorporation: New York      

Alcentra Investments Limited   Incorporation: Bermuda      

BNY Alcentra Group Holdings, Inc.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

BNY Aurora Holding Corp.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY Capital Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY Capital Funding, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Capital Markets Holdings, Inc.   State of Incorporation: New York      

BNY Holdings (UK) Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY International Financing Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

BNY International Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY International Leasing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY ITC Leasing, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Lease Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Lease Equities (Cap Funding) LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Real Estate Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNYM GIS Funding I LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNYM GIS Funding III LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos Ltda.   Incorporation: Brazil      

BNY Mellon Asset Management International Holdings Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Asset Management Japan Limited   Incorporation: Japan      

BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Clearing, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Global Management Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon International Asset Management Group Limited   Incorporation: England      

BNY Mellon Investment Servicing (US) Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

BNY Mellon Securities Services (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon Trust Company (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

BNY Mellon, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

Colson Services Corp.   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Insight Investment Management (Global) Limited   Incorporation: England      

Insight Investment Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

Insight Investment Funds Management Limited   Incorporation: England      

MAM (MA) Holding Trust   Incorporation: Massachusetts      

MBC Investments Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

MBSC Securities Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Mellon Canada Holding Company   Incorporation: Canada      

Mellon Capital Management Corporation   State of Incorporation: Delaware      

Mellon International Holdings S.a r.l.   Incorporation: Luxembourg      

Mellon Investor Services Holdings LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Mellon Overseas Investment Corporation   Incorporation: United States      

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION    
   PRIMARY SUBSIDIARIES        DEC. 31, 2011        Continued    

MUNB Loan Holdings, LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

One Wall Street Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Pershing Group LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing Holdings (UK) Limited   Incorporation: England      

Pershing Investments LLC   State of Organization: Delaware      

Pershing Limited   Incorporation: England          

Pershing LLC   State of Organization: Delaware          

Pershing Securities Limited   Incorporation: England      

TBC Securities Co., Inc.   State of Incorporation: Massachusetts      

The Bank of New York Mellon   Organized: New York      

The Bank of New York Mellon (International) Limited   Incorporation: England      

The Bank of New York Mellon (Ireland) Limited   Incorporation: Ireland      

The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association   Incorporation: United States      

The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV   Incorporation: Belgium      

The Boston Company Asset Management, LLC   State of Organization: Massachusetts      

The Dreyfus Corporation   State of Incorporation: New York      

Walter Scott   Partners Limited   Incorporation: Scotland      

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 d260593dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       The Board of Directors
     The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements, as amended:       
    of our reports dated February 28, 2012, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of The Bank of New York
Mellon Corporation and subsidiaries ( BNY Mellon ) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, which reports appear in the December 31, 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K of BNY Mellon. The aforementioned report with
respect to the consolidated financial statements of BNY Mellon refers to changes, in 2010, in BNY Mellon s methods of accounting related to the consolidation of variable interest entities.   
  /s/ KPMG LLP      New York, New York   
  February 28, 2012   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 6
 d260593dex241.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1        POWER OF ATTORNEY       THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORPORATION   
  Know all men by these presents, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Jane C. Sherburne and Arlie R. Nogay, and each of
them, such person s true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and revocation, for such person and in such person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports on
Form 10-K pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2011, and any and all amendments thereto, and to file same with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents and each of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      This power of
attorney shall be effective as of February 14, 2012 and shall continue in full force and effect until revoked by the undersigned in a writing filed with the secretary of the Corporation.   

/s/ Ruth E. Bruch   

/s/ Mark A. Nordenberg   
 
    Ruth E. Bruch, Director   

Mark A. Nordenberg, Director   

/s/ Nicholas M. Donofrio   

/s/ Catherine A. Rein   
 
    Nicholas M. Donofrio, Director   

Catherine A. Rein, Director   

/s/ Edmund F. Kelly   

/s/ William C. Richardson   
 
    Edmund F. Kelly, Director   

William C. Richardson, Director   

/s/ Richard J. Kogan   

/s/ Samuel C. Scott III   
 
    Richard J. Kogan, Director   

Samuel C. Scott III, Director   

/s/ Michael J. Kowalski   

/s/ John P. Surma   
 
    Michael J. Kowalski, Director   

John P. Surma, Director   

/s/ John A. Luke, Jr.   

/s/ Wesley W. von Schack   
 
    John A. Luke, Jr., Director   

Wesley W. von Schack, Director   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d260593dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Gerald L. Hassell, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2012       

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell   
 
  Name: Gerald L. Hassell   
 
  Title: Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d260593dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 302 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Thomas P. Gibbons, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2012       

/s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   
 
  Name: Thomas P. Gibbons   
 
  Title: Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 d260593dex321.htm
 SECTION 906 CEO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CEO Certification 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of BNY
Mellon.       

Dated: February 28, 2012  

/s/ Gerald L. Hassell           

Name: Gerald L. Hassell   

Title: Chief Executive Officer   
    The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed
as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 d260593dex322.htm
 SECTION 906 CFO CERTIFICATION

Section 906 CFO Certification 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION       Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, the undersigned officer of The
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation ( BNY Mellon ), hereby certifies, to his knowledge, that BNY Mellon s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the  Report ) fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of BNY
Mellon.       

Dated: February 28, 2012     

/s/ Thomas P. Gibbons   

Name: Thomas P. Gibbons   

Title: Chief Financial Officer   
    The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 and is not being filed
as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 bk-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 bk-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 bk-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 bk-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 bk-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 bk-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

